More changes have been announced by the Department for Work and Pensions which could leave vulnerable and poorly people significantly financially worse off Get the pick of the week's best stories and fascinating features direct to your inbox every Saturday and Sunday morning in our exclusive Weekender newsletter We have more newsletters Get the pick of the week's best stories and fascinating features direct to your inbox every Saturday and Sunday morning in our exclusive Weekender newsletter We have more newsletters A stark warning has been issued about seriously ill and disabled people being thrust into poverty because they could be set to lose £400 a month in the long term under Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) plans to change the health element of Universal Credit.  The government revealed this year it plans to scrap the limited capability for work and work-related activity (LCWRA) element of universal credit and replace it with a new health element. However, it will only be awarded to people who are already receiving personal independence payment (PIP).  PIP is extra money to help people with everyday life if they have an illness, disability or mental health condition. It is a benefit which has replaced Disability Living Allowance (DLA) for people between 16 and State Pension age. DWP claims that “by focusing our proposals on people that receive both PIP and Universal Credit, we will ensure that financial support is targeted at those who need it the most”.  Read more: McDonald's releases statement after Devon teen 'choked and grabbed' by manager The Big Issue has reported there are 516,100 people who currently receive LCWRA but not PIP, according to new DWP data released on Thursday morning. These people are at risk of losing £390.06 each month, which is the typical amount awarded to people who have a limited capability for work.  “This will remove barriers in the system that can prevent people who would like to, from entering or remaining in employment,” the health and disability white paper reads. “We recognise that for some people on universal credit with a health condition, and who are also in receipt of PIP, work is not a realistic option, and the new health element will continue to provide income-related support to those people.” The DWP claims it will “carefully consider whether they meet the PIP assessment and eligibility criteria” and “how disabled people and people with health conditions who need additional financial support may receive it”. Ayla Ozmen, Director of Policy and Campaigns at the anti-poverty charity Z2K, told the Big Issue: “Seriously ill and disabled people are already more likely to be in poverty – and these figures show half a million could lose vital extra amounts of universal credit under [the] government’s proposals, simply because they don’t also receive PIP. “The DWP needs to fix its broken PIP system, and guarantee that people too unwell to work aren’t forced to get by on the inadequate basic levels of benefits.” Last week, DevonLive reported DWP will hand approximately 1.8 million people an extra cash boost due to a huge Universal Credit change. Claimants affected will receive a letter informing them what to do and that they need to act fast or risk all their payments being stopped. The changes will target a total of 2.7 million claimants on tax credits. Those who are not in line to receive more cash will either get the same amount in benefits or see their payments artificially kept at the same level. The DWP plans to move hundreds of thousands of claimants from older benefits onto Universal Credit. 