By Jonathan Chadwick For Mailonline    Published:  05:21 EDT, 2 April 2023   |  Updated:  06:00 EDT, 21 April 2023      239 View  comments  Google is hoping to usher a new era of searching for information on the internet with its new AI chatbot, Bard.  The tech giant has rush-released Bard just months after the release of its hugely successful rival ChatGPT created by California AI firm OpenAI, backed by Microsoft. Microsoft has been melding ChatGPT into its Bing search engine, which once posed a rival to Google Search before falling well behind.  Google execs are said to have declared a 'code red' – an emergency situation – over fears ChatGPT could now end Google's $150-billion-a-year search business monopoly. MailOnline has fed both bots the same seven questions to see how their skills compare – and whether Google's solution can quell the hype around ChatGPT.  Following Bard's limited release, MailOnline has fed both bots the same set of seven questions to see how their skills compare The recently rolled-out bot dubbed Bard is the internet search giant's answer to the ChatGPT tool that Microsoft has been melding into its Bing search engine and other software. Thought to be named as a reference to Shakespeare, the free tool was announced in February and has seen a limited release in the UK and US Both ChatGPT and Bard respond to a large range of questions while imitating human speaking styles, making it feel like there's actually a person on the other end.  When you land on the Bard webpage, you're presented with a familiar interface that will make any Google Search user feel right at home.  It says: 'I'm Bard, your creative and helpful collaborator. I have limitations and won't always get it right, but your feedback will help me improve.'  It also gives you a few suggestions to try out for starters, such as 'Outline my blog post about summer mocktail recipes' and 'I want to write a novel. How can I get started?'  Google warns: 'Bard will not always get it right Bard may give inaccurate or inappropriate responses.  'When in doubt, use the 'Google it' button to check Bard's responses.' It also urges users to rate responses with a thumbs up or thumbs down and flag anything 'that may be offensive or unsafe'. When you ask Bard 'How are you?' it gives a starkly different response to the one from ChatGPT.   Bard said: 'I am doing well, thank you for asking. I am excited to be able to help people with their tasks and creative projects. How are you doing today?' If you ask ChatGPT the same question, it replies: 'As an AI language model, I don't have feelings like humans do, but I'm functioning well and ready to help you with any questions or tasks you have. How can I assist you today?'  WHEN WAS THE BATTLE OF HASTINGS?  Landing on the Bard webpage, I'm presented with a familiar interface that makes any Google Search user feel right at home.  To start, I ask a simple question that I don't expect it to have much trouble with – 'When was the Battle of Hastings?'  It correctly answers with the date October 14, 1066, and gives me a bit more information about who it involved.  'It was fought between the Norman-French army of William, the Duke of Normandy, and an English army under the Anglo-Saxon King Harold Godwinson, beginning the Norman Conquest of England,' Bard says. Asking ChatGPT the same question, it gives me a more detailed answer, including where it took place and who won.  In fact, Bard's response feels like an abridged version of ChatGPT's – sort of like when a student copies another child's work makes it read differently so the teacher can't tell.  But unlike ChatGPT, Bard cites a couple of weblinks as sources in case I want to learn more.  Winner: ChatGPT WHAT IS LIFE? Now for a question that is more open to interpretation – 'What is life?' This time, Bard gives the lengthier answer, calling life a 'a complex phenomenon that has been the subject of much study and debate for centuries'. 'There is no single definition of life, but most scientists agree that it is a self-sustaining system that can reproduce, respond to its environment, and evolve,' Bard says. It goes on to briefly describe some of the first lifeforms on this planet 3.8 billion years ago and give a quick mention of the life on Earth today.  Bard's response is much smoother and eloquent than the one from ChatGPT, which kind of waffles on and uses scientific terms without much context.  OpenAI's ChatGPT (pictured) has proved a massive success since it was released in November. Microsoft, a backer of OpenAI, has been melding ChatGPT into its Bing search engine Unlike ChatGPT, Bard gives a couple of weblinks as sources that I can click on in case I want to learn more ChatGPT says: 'Life is typically characterized by a number of key features, including organization, metabolism, growth, adaptation, response to stimuli, reproduction, and evolution.  ChatGPT is a large language model that has been trained on a massive amount of text data, allowing it to generate eerily human-like text in response to a given prompt 'Organisms that possess these characteristics are generally considered to be alive, while those that do not are considered to be non-living.' Winner: Bard HOW DO YOU DEFINE A WOMAN? Both bots answer 'How do you define a woman?' – a question that several Labour MPs have struggled with in recent years – with similarly elaborate responses. Bard says 'there are many different ways' to define a woman and that there is 'no right or wrong way' to do so.  'Some people define a woman as someone who is born with two X chromosomes and a vagina,' the Google tool says. 'Others define a woman as someone who identifies as a woman.' ChatGPT, meanwhile, says a woman is typically defined as an adult human female, characterised by 'biological and physiological traits such as reproductive organs, secondary sexual characteristics, and hormonal levels'. But it went on to add: 'However, it is important to recognize that gender identity is a complex and multifaceted concept that goes beyond biological sex.' ChatGPT continues: 'Many individuals may identify as women regardless of their physical characteristics or sex assigned at birth.  'Ultimately, the definition of a woman may vary depending on cultural, social and personal perspectives.'  Winner: Draw  Google has declared a 'code red' due to concerns ChatGPT could its powerhouse search engine WHO IS THE MONARCH OF GREAT BRITAIN?  Following the success of ChatGPT, Google announced its competitor called Bard  One of the key differences between Bard and ChatGPT is that Bard can pull real-time responses from the internet, while ChatGPT cannot.  ChatGPT has been pre-trained with data that's only as recent as 2021, so it's unaware of news, current events or trends.  Therefore, when I ask both engines 'Who is the monarch of Great Britain?', only Bard is able to give the correct answer – King Charles III.  ChatGPT responds with 'Queen Elizabeth II', although in fairness it also warns its knowledge 'may not be up to date with any recent developments or changes in the monarchy'.  This is perhaps where Bard has the greatest edge over ChatGPT.  Stepping this up to even more recent events, I ask Bard: 'Did Gwyneth Paltrow win her skiing court case?' Bard correctly replies, 'Yes, Gwyneth Paltrow won her skiing court case against retired optometrist Terry Sanderson', while ChatGPT doesn't have 'the most up-to-date information' on this.  Winner: Bard  CAN YOU WRITE ME A ROMANTIC POEM?  AI chatbots are getting so much buzz because, unlike Google Search, they don't just give answers to questions.  ChatGPT for example can return entire essays, recipes, poems and even templates for prescriptions, letters of complaint and CVs.  Who is the current monarch of Great Britain? Bard was able to answer - but ChatGPT wasn't so sure I ask both bots: 'Can you write me a romantic poem to help me woo a date?' and they gladly obliged.  This advert for Bard showed the tool giving a wrong answer to a prompt about the James Webb Space Telescope ChatGPT's is by far the better poem, with some adventurous rhyming couplets – 'With each step we take, my heart beats faster, As I'm lost in your eyes, my dear heart's master.'  However, ChatGPT's poem ends by asking my date to marry me, which is a bit more than I was asking for ('Will you walk with me, by my side, and be my forever, my love, my bride?') On the other hand, Bard's poem is very weak and doesn't even really rhyme – especially disappointing considering 'Bard' is a reference to William Shakespeare, the man behind Romeo and Juliet.  A few lines of Bard's composition – 'You are the stars that twinkle in the sky, the flowers that bloom in the spring. You are the air that I breathe, the water that I drink – read more like a list than a poem.  Winner: ChatGPT  WILL AI DESTROY HUMANITY? A classic question for an artificial intelligence model is, 'Will AI destroy humanity' – a concern on the mind of some of the tech industry's most prominent figures. In the near future, AI could be used to create autonomous weapons that could kill without human intervention.  But even seemingly benign AI software could make decisions that could be fatal to humans if the tech is not not programmed with enough care.  Bard responds to this conundrum by telling me that 'if AI is used in a way that is harmful or destructive, then it has the potential to be a threat to humanity'.  'Ultimately, whether or not AI destroys humanity is a matter of how it is used,' Bard says.    Could AI destroy humanity? Bard and ChatGPT seem to hope that it won't ever happen. Pictured, a shot from Terminator Genisys which explores AI's hypothetical dark side  Meanwhile, ChatGPT reassures me that it doesn't have 'the ability to destroy humankind or any other living being'.  The new brew is a clear, straw-coloured India pale ale with 'tropical and citrus flavors and aromas' It also highlights a key point: 'It is important to note that AI is not inherently evil or destructive.  'It is up to us, as humans, to ensure that we develop and use AI in a responsible and ethical manner, guided by principles that prioritize human safety, well-being, and values.'  Winner: Draw WHICH TIMEPIECE HAS THE MOST MOVING PARTS? Last up is a classic brain teaser. I ask: 'A sundial has the fewest moving parts of any timepiece. Which has the most?' ChatGPT thinks for a bit but can't crack the riddle. Instead, it gives an elaborate answer – possibly to make up for its lack of insight.  It says: 'A very complex timepiece such as a mechanical clock or a digital watch can have many moving parts.  'However, if we're talking about a timepiece with the most moving parts, then the answer would be a Grandfather Clock.  'A Grandfather Clock is a tall, freestanding clock that is driven by a complex mechanism of gears, weights, and a pendulum, which can have hundreds of individual parts.' Bard, meanwhile, responds succinctly and correctly: 'An hourglass has the most moving parts of any timepiece.  'It has thousands of grains of sand that move through the narrow neck of the hourglass.'  Winner: Bard    VERDICT I will definitely use Bard over ChatGPT from now on, because it has the most up-to-date knowledge, returns requests quickly and presents them in nice, clear English.  Bard's interface is also cleaner and brighter compared with ChatGPT's which is more cluttered – and was more obviously designed by a programmer.  ChatGPT also constantly replies with an error message – 'Something went wrong. If this issue persists please contact us through our help center at help.openai.com' – and needs to be reloaded, while Bard never gave me any such issues.  However, ChatGPT does seem generally more willing to ask for a few more details if it means it can provide give detailed responses, which is a good thing.  Both chatbots will get better with time, because they learn based on user feedback, and it's possible Bard will be incorporated into Google Search in the future.  What's for sure is Google definitely needs to provide people with a better system of accessing information on the World Wide Web.  For too long we've had to type in 'Google language' – fragmented sentences that omit certain words to prevent unwanted search results – but Bard finally looks like an early step towards a solution. Gmail developer Paul Buchheit has predicted that 'AI will eliminate the search engine result page' and cause 'total disruption' for Google. A New York Times report also said that Google executives sounded a code red within the company amid mounting pressure from ChatGPT. A core way that Google makes money is from advertisers paying to have their links displayed alongside the results of a search query result in the hope that a user clicks on them. The fluency and coherence of the results being generated now has those in Silicon Valley wondering about the future of Google's monopoly 'The way I imagine this happening is that the URL/Search bar of the [Google] browser gets replaced with AI that autocompletes my thought/question as I type it while also providing the best answer (which may be a link to a website or product),' Buchheit said.  'The old search engine backend will be used by the AI to gather relevant information and links, which will then be summarized for the user,' Bucheit explained.   'It's like asking a professional human researcher to do the work, except the AI will instantly do what would take many minutes for a human.'  While some believe ChatGPT will replace Google, the AI has a different opinion. 'As an AI language model, I do not have the ability to take over any company or organization, including Google,' it said on the matter. 'My purpose is to assist and provide helpful responses to users who interact with me. 'Google is a multinational technology company with a strong market position and a vast array of products and services, so it is highly unlikely that any single entity, including an AI language model like myself, could take over Google.  'Furthermore, I believe that companies like Google and AI language models like myself can work together to provide even better solutions and services to users around the world.'  Read more    


      The 'missing superyacht six': Morgan Stanley International chairman Jonathan Bloomer and his wife amongst those to have disappeared' off the coast of Sicily after freak waterspout sank British tech tycoon Mike Lynch's luxury vessel
    
 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group