Here's the full list of payments from the Department for Work and Pensions and HM Revenue and Customs - and how much they will increase next month  Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters  Sign up for free to get the latest North East news and updates delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Millions of people across the country will see their benefit payments and State Pension go up by 10.1% from next month. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has confirmed that State Pension, disability and most working age benefits will increase from April, in line with the rate of inflation in September. This means that on average, a family on Universal Credit will benefit by around £600 this year. The benefit cap will also rise in line with inflation, increasing from £23,000 to £25,323 for families in Greater London and from £20,000 to £22,020 for families nationally - lower caps for single households without children will rise from £15,410 to £16,967 in Greater London and from £13,400 to £14,753 nationally. Read More: Your DWP Universal Credit payments could be cut for seven reasons - full list However, due to payments made in arrears, most people are not likely to see a difference until May, reports the Daily Record. Here is the full list of new rates. Inflation-linked DWP benefits, Tax Credit elements and benefits administered by HMRC will rise by 10.1% from April 2023. The Basic and New State Pensions will also be uprated by 10.1%, in line with the Triple Lock. The DWP has published a full online guide to the increases for State Pensions, benefits and the increased benefit cap on the GOV.UK website here. Below is a summary of the new weekly payment rates. Weekly rates are shown, unless otherwise stated and have been rounded as per the UK Government policy. Care Component Mobility component Daily Living Component Mobility Component Standard allowance Couple There are two Child Benefit rates in place. The new weekly rate for Guardian's Allowance will be £20.40 - an increase of £1.85 on the current 2022/23 rate of £18.55. Working Tax Credit is paid to people who are in work and on a low income – it does not matter whether you are an employee or self-employed, and you do not need to have children to get the payment. Child Tax Credit is paid to people who have children and is paid in addition to Child Benefit and the Scottish Child Payment - you do not have to be working to receive it. Here are the details of the proposed new payment thresholds and rates for the 2023/24 financial year. You can read the full list of proposed payment rate and threshold changes from HMRC on the GOV.UK website here. To get the latest money news direct to your inbox, click here Read Next: Parents could get child benefit stopped if children skip school, says Michael Gove Every DWP cost of living payment available to millions in March 2023 Child Benefit rules if your family splits up or if your child lives with someone else The conditions which are most and least likely to be awarded PIP payments New rules mean cheaper broadband for more low-income families 