The Department for Work and Pensions and Social Security Scotland are to offer payment boosts to people on a number of benefits including Universal Credit, PIP, DLA, Carer's Allowance, Child Benefit, Pension Credit and State Pension Never miss breaking news by signing up to our free email updates We have more newsletters Never miss breaking news by signing up to our free email updates We have more newsletters Millions of people will receive extra cash in June from benefit rises and cost of living payments. It will include many claimants seeing their allowances go up for the first time this year as the new 2023/2024 rates are applied.  There will also be a one-off boost for Carer's Allowance recipients in some parts of the UK, as well as a new £150 cost of living payment from the DWP for people on disability benefits.   Although May had three bank holidays that interrupted normal payments including the extra one for the King's Coronation, there are no bank holidays in June so benefit payments will go in on the normal dates - except where they fall on a weekend and are then moved to the previous working day. This applies to Universal Credit payments due on the 3rd or 4th, 10th or 11th, 17th or 18th, or 24th and 25th.   READ MORE: DWP to check two million Universal Credit claims in major benefits review  From April 10, all benefits went up by 10.1 per cent but many won't see the rise applied to their payments until June. This is because benefits are usually paid in arrears, covering a preceding period of one, two or four weeks. For those paid four-weekly or monthly, the increase won't be seen until at least mid-May, with many not getting it until June. Universal Credit has a monthly payment cycle, tied to the same date except where there is a weekend or bank holiday, and so claimants with an assessment period beginning on or after April 26 will see the new rates in their June payments. Note that payments go into accounts seven days after the end of the assessment period, as follows: For those on other benefits typically paid every four weeks on the same weekday, such as Personal Independence Payment (PIP), Attendance Allowance, Disability Living Allowance (DLA), Pension Credit, State Pension and tax credits, the rise will be applied after the first four-weekly payment cycle starting on or after April 10.  Parents on Universal Credit will be able to claim back much more towards childcare costs from later this month. A rise of almost 50 per cent in these payments will come into effect on June 28.  It means that people who are on Universal Credit can claim back childcare costs of up to £951 for one child and £1,630 for two or more children. This is a huge rise from the previous limits of £646 for one child (an increase of £305) or £1,108 (an increase of £522) for two or more children. It will enable more mums and dads to afford daily care for their youngsters while they go back to work. The Government also says it will pay back 85 per cent of the first childcare bill "immediately" so that families then have that money in their pocket to pay subsequent bills upfront. Find out more here. People on Carer's Allowance get an extra amount twice a year if they live in Scotland. This is called Carer's Allowance Supplement.  The next payment will be £270.50 from June 9, 2023. To be eligible, you must have been getting Carer's Allowance on April 10, 2023. If you think you are eligible and do not receive a letter or payment by June 16, call Social Security Scotland free on 0800 182 2222. The second supplement will be in December. People on disability benefits are to get a £150 cost of living payment. It will be paid into accounts between June 20 and July 4. Six million people across the UK are to get the cash, including 606,000 in the West Midlands, of which 208,800 are in Birmingham. The benefits to qualify are Disability Living Allowance, Personal Independence Payment, Attendance Allowance, Scottish Disability Benefits (Adult Disability Payment and Child Disability Payment), Armed Forces Independence Payment, Constant Attendance Allowance and War Pension Mobility Supplement. People must have received one of those eligible benefits on April 1 this year. For those who were awaiting confirmation of their entitlement to disability benefits on April 1, or who are waiting to be assessed for eligibility to receive disability benefits, the process may take longer, but payments will still be automatic. It means a small proportion of payments will be made after the June 20-July 4 payment window.  READ NEXT: Get all the latest benefits and money-saving news in our daily newsletters delivered to your inbox DWP issues holiday travel warning to everyone on Universal Credit and PIP More people to get help with claiming Universal Credit after £22m investment Attendance Allowance - Usually every 4 weeks Carer’s Allowance - Weekly in advance or every 4 weeks Child Benefit - Usually every 4 weeks - or weekly if you’re a single parent or you or your partner get certain benefits Disability Living Allowance - Usually every 4 weeks Employment and Support Allowance - Usually every 2 weeks Income Support - Usually every 2 weeks Jobseeker’s Allowance - Usually every 2 weeks Pension Credit - Usually every 4 weeks Personal Independence Payment - Usually every 4 weeks State Pension - Usually every 4 weeks Tax credits, such as Working Tax Credits - Every week or every 4 weeks Universal Credit - Every month (except in Scotland and Northern Ireland) 