Thousands more claimants could be hit with penalties as they find themselves under 'intensive work search' requirements and higher earnings limits Never miss breaking news by signing up to our free email updates We have more newsletters Never miss breaking news by signing up to our free email updates We have more newsletters Thousands of Universal Credit claimants face benefit cuts as a penalty if they don't comply with new work rules. The Department for Work and Pensions says people will be "liable for a sanction" if they don't make efforts to boost their earnings to a new minimum level set to come into force this autumn.  Claimants have reported concerns over employment advisors' tough new approach as changes are set to bring more people into an 'intensive work search' regime. Research has suggested the constant threat of sanctions makes it harder for people to find the right job as they feel they are pushed into taking any position that offers the wages they are required to earn.   Sanctions can reduce a person's benefit payments or even stop them completely for a set period. But a poll of people who are out of work and receiving Universal Credit showed 61 per cent agreed they were less likely to form a supportive relationship with jobcentre staff due to the focus on enforcement. For those with a health condition or disability, this rose to 69 per cent.  READ MORE: DWP announces massive shake-up of PIP, Universal Credit and ESA from 2024 The research, which was commissioned by think tank the New Economics Foundation (NEF), emerged as the Government is set to increase earnings thresholds to include more claimants in the 'intensive work search' (IWS) regime for those with no income or a very low income. The Government's impact assessment of the changes found 110,000 more claimants will be brought under the stricter conditions, having previously been subject to a 'light touch' approach with less pressure to find a job or increase their wages. It adds the changes will also result in more people who are awaiting a work capability assessment being brought into the 'intensive work search' group. It said: "Raising the AET (administrative earnings threshold) will therefore result in more claimants who are waiting for WCA (work capability assessments) being in the IWS (intensive work search) regime, where they will benefit from intensive and tailored support from a work coach to help them progress in work. We know that people with health conditions/disabilities often have varied and complex needs when it comes to finding work, which regular work coach support can help with. "Like any other claimants in IWS, if claimants with a health condition or disability fail to comply with work-related requirements without good reason, they will be liable for a sanction." The changes - due to come in this month - will see the earnings threshold rise to £812 for individual claimants and £1,309 for couples. It's equivalent to an individual working 18 hours per week at the National Living Wage or the claimants in a couple working a total of 29 hours per week at the National Living Wage. Further changes are encouraging 700,000 Universal Credit claimants who are the main carers of their children to look for work or increase their hours, the Government said. Those with a one-year-old will have to attend a work-focused meeting every three months instead of every six months, so they can prepare to go back to work. Parents with a two-year-old will have to meet their work coach every month instead of every three months. In other findings from the poll, 63 per cent of claimants said the threat of sanctions had a negative impact on their mental health. This rose to 73 per cent for those living with a health condition or disability. Three-quarters of those polled said their first jobcentre meeting was focused on the rules they must follow and the expectations they had to meet, while 59 per cent felt jobcentre staff wanted to get them into any job as quickly as possible, regardless of how appropriate it was. A NEF report called for a "new relationship" between jobcentres and Universal Credit claimants, with the current focus on "requirements and punishment" replaced by "shared accountability." Tom Pollard, head of social policy at NEF, said: "An obsession with applying stringent and prescriptive conditions to job seekers, backed up by the threat of sanctions, is harming their efforts to find appropriate and secure work. "Demanding compliance from people means they end up jumping through hoops rather than finding jobs that are a good fit for them. This is particularly important when so many people who are out of work face additional barriers such as health conditions and disabilities. "It doesn't have to be this way. Politicians need to help reset the relationship between the Jobcentre and people out of work, to focus on engagement and support rather than compliance and punishment." A spokesperson for the Department for Work and Pensions said: "Sanctions are designed to encourage people to meet certain commitments, preparing them for workplace responsibilities. Most claimants agree this makes them more likely to look for work or take steps to prepare. They are only applied if claimants fail, without good reason, to meet the requirements they agreed to. "The vast majority of sanctions are applied due to claimants failing to attend mandatory appointments and can often be resolved quickly by the claimant re-engaging with the jobcentre and attending the next appointment." 