Benefit claimants faced a series of changes in May due to the three bank holidays in May, as payments were unable to be made on those days Sign up to FREE email alerts from the Money Saving Club  We have more newsletters Sign up to FREE email alerts from the Money Saving Club  We have more newsletters The DWP has confirmed the dates benefits payments will be June after a series of changes were made in May. Benefit claimants faced a series of changes in May due to the three bank holidays in May, as payments were unable to be made on those days. The addition of an extra bank holiday to mark the coronation of King Charles III meant the DWP implemented new payment dates to ensure claimants were not left out of pocket with most paid in advance of the normal date, as reported by Lancs Live. As well as the normal benefits, such as State Pension, Pension Credit, PIP and Universal Credit, those on low incomes will receive a series of Cost of Living payments during 2023. In contrast to May, there are no bank holidays affecting payment dates of the usual benefits claimants will receive, therefore payments for the following will return to normal in June, YorkshireLive reports. Is the government doing enough to help with the cost of living? Let us know List of benefits available in June: Households across the country on a low income are set to receive £1,350 worth of cost of living help throughout the year. Nine-hundred pounds will be given to eight million people who qualify for benefits from this spring, made in three separate payments, according to the DWP. Six million recipients who have disabilities will additionally receive a £150 payment and £300 will be paid to more than eight million pensioners. The payment dates known so far are as follows: More precise payment dates are said to be revealed later this year. Jeremy Hunt's Energy Price Guarantee (EPG), which was introduced in March, is set to be extended until June - it was first brought in to make sure families did not pay over £2,500 for their gas and electric bills. During the Spring Statement, Mr Hunt said to parliament: "High energy bills are one of the biggest worries for families, which is why we’re maintaining the energy price guarantee at its current level. "With energy bills set to fall from July onwards, this temporary change will bridge the gap and ease the pressure on families, while also helping to lower inflation too." Since the budget, Ofgem has lowered the price cap to £3,280 for the second quarter of this year. This means households will be protected from paying the full amount. Most people will be paid the £150 Disability Cost of Living Payment automatically between June 20 and July 4. Do you support any of the following strikes? (Nurses, teachers, ambulance staff, firefighters) Tell us here READ NEXT: Innocent mum permanently injured after baseball bat attack Dad's heartbreak as his Nottinghamshire restaurant 'in a mess' after break in Reason for low water level at lake at country park on Nottinghamshire border Innocent mum permanently injured after baseball bat attack Police investigation after road closed due to stabbing in house 