
Follow us on
 loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading....  09th Mar, 2023. 03:00 pm Share Listen Font size Dark Mode Save Print NDMA dispatches more aid consignment to Turkiye, Syria ISLAMABAD: The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has sent more aid consignment to Turkiye and Syria. According to the NDMA, on the directions of Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, 65 containers containing relief goods were dispatched through a ship. This shipment includes 8,200 winter tents for earthquake victims in Turkiye. It also includes 15,000 ration bags and other essential items for Syrian victims. The ship departing with relief supplies will reach the destination in 15 days. ON March 1, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif had appreciated the humanitarian services of Pakistan’s search and rescue teams sent to support and assist the earthquake-affected people of Turkiye and Syria. PM Shehbaz Sharif appreciated humanitarian services of rescue teams The teams were... Addressing a ceremony to honour Pakistan’s search and rescue teams, the prime minister had praised them for working tirelessly in Turkiye and Syria and rendering commendable services. He had said the people of Pakistan had prayed for their success and appreciated the humanitarian services. “With hard work, dedication, and professional manner, our teams performed the rescue work and saved dozens of people trapped under the rubble. With your benevolent and caring efforts, you have carved a place in the hearts of the people of Turkiye. They will remember your services forever,” he had said. The prime minister had recollected that he had met the teams working during his visit to the quake-hit region of Turkiye. He had thanked them for strengthening the brotherly and fraternal ties with these two countries and infusing vigour and affection with their meritorious services. Catch all the
Pakistan News, Breaking News Event and Latest News Updates on The BOL News Download The BOL News App to get the Daily News Update & Follow us on Google News. Copyright ©  - BOL Group Ltd. All rights reserved.