We make it easy to get an instant, guaranteed value for your eligible phone when you trade in using our Trade-in Tool. We guarantee your trade-in quote and give you instant confirmation when using our Trade-in Tool. Choose how you get paid – bank transfer, a monthly saving on your Airtime Plan, or Vodafone account credit which you can use towards a Phone Plan.   Get a quote in minutes and easily trade in while buying a new phone. We resell 97% of phones and the rest is recycled. Use the trade-in tool in the My Vodafone app to check your phone’s condition. You'll receive an instant code with your guaranteed trade-in value. When you buy a new phone on Vodafone EVO, you'll have the option to trade in and enter your trade-in code.  Once you've got your new phone, send your old phone back to us using a prepaid returns pack or drop it off in one of our stores. Get a monthly saving on a new Airtime Plan or credit on your Vodafone account. This can be used towards anything billed to your account or towards your Phone Plan. Use our Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app to find out if your phone is eligible for our Trade-in Guarantee, and how much it could be worth. You'll be asked to do a few simple checks to make sure your phone is in good working order, and then we'll give you a unique trade-in code that confirms your guaranteed quote. Remember - you don't have to be an existing Vodafone customer to use the Trade-in Tool on the My Vodafone app and get your guaranteed trade-in value. Download the My Vodafone app from the App Store at any time.  Already got the My Vodafone app on your phone? Launch the Trade-in Tool on your phone During promotional periods, you could get an additional Trade-in Bonus on top of your existing guaranteed trade-in value. This will depend on the phone you trade in and, depending on the specific promotion, the new phone you buy. You can get this value as: A monthly saving on your Airtime Plan Credit on your Vodafone account, which you can use to help towards paying off your current Phone Plan, or other Vodafone services.  You'll need to redeem your Trade-in Bonus and guaranteed trade-in value using the same payment method. If you've already bought a new phone or you can't complete our trade-in checks you can still trade in your old phone for a payment, but the trade-in value won't be guaranteed. You can trade in almost any model with us. Just use our Trade-in Tool to make sure it's eligible and meets our basic criteria. Once you complete our trade-in checks, you'll get an instant guarantee of your trade-in value. iPhone trade-in Samsung trade-in Google trade-in iPhone 11 iPhone XR iPhone 11 Pro iPhone 12 iPhone SE Browse Apple iPhone Samsung Galaxy S20 5G Samsung Galaxy S20+ 5G Samsung Galaxy S10 Samsung Galaxy S10 Lite Samsung Galaxy S21 5G Browse Samsung Galaxy Google Pixel 4 Google Pixel 3a Google Pixel 4XL Google Pixel 6 Pro Google Pixel 3a XL Browse Google Pixel  When you choose your new phone as part of your trade-in journey, why not select a refurbished phone to save even more? All our refurbished phones come with a two-year warranty and are fully tested with a 32-point health check covering battery, camera, and more. We even offer refurbished iPhones and refurbished Samsung phones Any phone can be traded in with us if it passes our Trade-in Tool checks, so when the time comes to say goodbye to your refurbished phone, you may be able to trade it in. Changed your mind about trading in? Donate your old phone to The Great British Tech Appeal and we'll gift it to a young person who doesn't have the right tech or access to the internet. Plus, we'll give them free data, calls and texts too. It's fast, simple and free to donate. From summer festivals and Wimbledon, to 5G roaming abroad - we're keeping you connected all summer long.   Trade-in is a great way to get value for a phone that you no longer want. Trade in your old phone when you buy a new product from us and we'll give you cash in your bank account, credit on your Vodafone account or a monthly saving on your airtime bill. Not only are you saving money by trading in, but you're also giving your phone a second life by returning it to us, which takes the hassle out of disposing of it. We resell 97% of phones and the rest is recycled. STEP 1: Choose to trade inYou can trade in while upgrading to your new phone. Select to upgrade in the My Vodafone app or in your My Vodafone account online, and choose to trade in before you upgrade. STEP 2: Use our Trade-in ToolPass some simple checks using our Trade-in Tool on the My Vodafone app, and we'll instantly give you a guaranteed value for your old phone. STEP 3: Choose how to receive your valueBank transfer, money off your monthly plan, or Vodafone account credit. The choice is yours. STEP 4: Send us your old phoneComplete your upgrade with your trade-in value applied, then return your phone to us either in-store or in the post. We accept almost any phone that meets the basic criteria for our Trade-in Guarantee. To find out if your phone is an eligible model and meets our criteria, use our Trade-in Tool to check. Our Trade-in Tool will also give you a guaranteed quote while your phone is still in your hand. If your phone has any damage, such as screen or water damage, your price will be less than the value shown at the start of the trade-in process. The eligible phone you're sending back must be in a reasonable working order. This means: Find My iPhone security features are disabled if it's an iPhone  Any Google accounts have been removed if it's a Samsung Galaxy It turns on to home screen The screen and back of the phone are intact Touchscreen should be functional For more information on our criteria, see our terms and conditions  At checkout we ask how you'd like to send your phone to us. You can either drop it off in store or to a DPD location using a prepaid returns pack.   Before you send your phone to us, you'll need to turn off Find My iPhone if you have an iPhone or remove your Google account if you have a Samsung phone. See our device guides to find out how to do this.  Drop it off in store:  Bring your eligible phone with you to your local store within 14 days of your new airtime starting Provided your phone passes our checks, we’ll transfer your trade-in credit Send using a prepaid returns pack:  We'll send are turns pack with a prepaid DPD label to your address Slip your phone inside, seal it, and take it to a DPD drop off location within 14 days of your new airtime starting Once we receive your eligible phone (which can take up to five working days), we’ll check it, then transfer your trade-in credit  You've got three options:  Account credit  Your account credit will go towards anything billed to your Vodafone account, including Airtime Plans or Home Broadband. If you want to put your account credit towards your current Phone Plan, log into your My Vodafone account and choose Use your credit from the main dashboard. You can also call us on 191 free from your Vodafone mobile. Only account credit can be used towards a Device Plan – you won’t be able to use goodwill credit. You’ll receive your credit within 5 working days, after we’ve received your phone.  Monthly Airtime saving Your trade-in value will be applied as an instant, monthly discount on your new Airtime Plan. Make sure you send us your old phone within 14 days of your new Airtime Plan starting. Bank transfer  We'll transfer your trade-in value to your bank account using the bank account attached to your plan. You'll receive this within 5 to 10 working days after we've received your phone. Your account credit can go towards anything billed to your Vodafone account, including Airtime Plans or Home Broadband. If you want to put your credit towards a Phone Plan and reduce ongoing costs, log into your My Vodafone account and choose Use your credit from the main dashboard. You can also call us on 191 free from your Vodafone mobile. Only account credit can be used towards a Device Plan – you won’t be able to use goodwill credit. If you’re struggling to use the Trade-in Tool and would like some help, you can visit us in store and one of our staff members will run the checks for you.   If you can't use the Trade-in Tool on your phone because it can't use the My Vodafone app or isn't one of our eligible phones, you won't be able to benefit from our Trade-in Guarantee. However, you may still be able to trade in for a cash payment Your phone will need to be in good working condition, including powering up to the home screen, having no more than three scratches or cracks, and having a fully functional touchscreen. Your phone must also not have been reported as lost or stolen - if it has been then its IMEI number will be blocked, and it will not be able to make or receive calls or use data.  For a full list of our criteria, see our terms and conditions Our Trade-in Tool will confirm how much your phone is worth with a quote. This quote is guaranteed, as long as you buy a Pay monthly Airtime Plan (this can be with a Phone Plan or as a SIM only plan) within seven days from the date of the quote. After the quote has expired, you'll need to use our Trade-in Tool to complete the checks again to generate a new quote. To guarantee your trade-in quote, you'll need to return your phone to us within 14 days of your new airtime starting. You'll receive a 'Welcome' message from us when your new Airtime Plan starts. We accept phones in good working condition - this means it'll need to run on to the home screen, have no more than three scratches or cracks, and have a fully functional touchscreen. When we're running a Trade-in Bonus promotion, you may be able to get an additional bonus on top of the trade-in value for the phone you're trading in, when you buy a new phone. Eligibility for the bonus may depend on which phone you're trading in and which new phone you're buying. You can redeem your Trade-in Bonus as a monthly saving on your Pay monthly airtime bill or as credit on your Vodafone account. You can't get your Trade-in Bonus as a bank transfer. Can I redeem my Trade-in Bonus and Trade-in Guarantee using different payment methods?Your Trade-in Bonus and guaranteed trade-in value must be redeemed using the same payment method. This can be either a monthly airtime saving or credit on your Vodafone account. In this circumstance, a bank transfer payment isn't possible. Please note: if you're eligible for our Trade-in Bonus but you choose a bank transfer as your payment option, you'll only receive your guaranteed trade-in value and you'll no longer be able to claim your Trade-in Bonus. Save up to £540 when you trade in an eligible iPhone and buy an iPhone 15 series phone. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then order an iPhone 15, 15 Plus, 15 Pro, or 15 Pro Max in the same transaction. The trade-in saving of up to £540 is based on trading in iPhone 14 Pro Max in good condition and receiving a bonus of £150. Be advised – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £150 Trade-in Bonus: Apple iPhone X Apple iPhone XR Apple iPhone XS Apple iPhone XS Max Apple iPhone SE (2022) Apple iPhone 11 Apple iPhone 11 Pro Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max Apple iPhone 12 Apple iPhone 12 Mini Apple iPhone 12 Pro Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max Apple iPhone 13 Apple iPhone 13 Mini Apple iPhone 13 Pro Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max Apple iPhone 14 Apple iPhone 14 Plus Apple iPhone 14 Pro Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max  Save up to £310 when you trade in an eligible iPhone and buy iPhone 14 or 14 Plus. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app and order iPhone 14 or 14 Plus in the same transaction. The trade-in saving of up to £310 is based on trading in iPhone 13 Pro Max in good condition and receiving a bonus of £50. Be advised – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for a £50 Trade-in Bonus: Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max Apple iPhone 14 Pro Apple iPhone 14 Plus Apple iPhone 14 Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max Apple iPhone 13 Pro Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max Apple iPhone 12 Pro Apple iPhone 13 Apple iPhone 13 Mini Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max Apple iPhone 12 Apple iPhone 11 Pro Apple iPhone 12 Mini Apple iPhone 11 Apple iPhone XS Apple iPhone SE (2022) Apple iPhone XS Max Apple iPhone XR Apple iPhone X   Save up to £500 when you trade in an eligible device and buy a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip6 or Z Fold6 phone. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then, in the same transaction, order a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip6 or Z Fold6 phone. The trade-in saving of up to £500 is based on trading in a Samsung Z Fold4 in good condition and receiving a bonus of £300. Please note – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £300 Trade-in Bonus: • Apple iPhone X• Apple iPhone XR• Apple iPhone XS• Apple iPhone XS Max• Apple iPhone 11• Apple iPhone 11 Pro• Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 12• Apple iPhone 12 Mini• Apple iPhone 12 Pro• Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 13• Apple iPhone 13 Mini• Apple iPhone 13 Pro• Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 14• Apple iPhone 14 Plus• Apple iPhone 14 Pro• Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max• Apple iPhone SE 2022• Samsung Galaxy S10E• Samsung Galaxy S10• Samsung Galaxy S10+• Samsung Galaxy S20 FE• Samsung Galaxy S20• Samsung Galaxy S20+• Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S21 FE• Samsung Galaxy S21• Samsung Galaxy S21+• Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S22• Samsung Galaxy S22+• Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip3• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip4• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4• Google Pixel 6a• Google Pixel 6• Google Pixel 6 Pro• Google Pixel 7a• Google Pixel 7• Google Pixel 7 Pro  Save up to £320 when you trade in an eligible device and buy a Samsung Galaxy S24 Series phone. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then, in the same transaction, order a Samsung Galaxy S24 Series phone. The trade-in saving of up to £320 is based on trading in a Samsung Z Fold4 in good condition and receiving a bonus of £120. Please note – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £120 Trade-in Bonus: • Apple iPhone X• Apple iPhone XR• Apple iPhone XS• Apple iPhone XS Max• Apple iPhone 11• Apple iPhone 11 Pro• Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 12• Apple iPhone 12 Mini• Apple iPhone 12 Pro• Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 13• Apple iPhone 13 Mini• Apple iPhone 13 Pro• Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 14• Apple iPhone 14 Plus• Apple iPhone 14 Pro• Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max• Apple iPhone SE 2022• Samsung Galaxy S10E• Samsung Galaxy S10• Samsung Galaxy S10+• Samsung Galaxy S20 FE• Samsung Galaxy S20• Samsung Galaxy S20+• Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S21 FE• Samsung Galaxy S21• Samsung Galaxy S21+• Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S22• Samsung Galaxy S22+• Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip3• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip4• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4• Google Pixel 6a• Google Pixel 6• Google Pixel 6 Pro• Google Pixel 7a• Google Pixel 7• Google Pixel 7 Pro  Save up to £300 when you trade in an eligible device and buy a Samsung Galaxy S23 or S23 FE phone. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then, in the same transaction, order a Samsung Galaxy S23 or S23 FE phone. The trade-in saving of up to £300 is based on trading in a Samsung Z Fold4 in good condition and receiving a bonus of £100. Please note – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £100 Trade-in Bonus: • Apple iPhone X• Apple iPhone XR• Apple iPhone XS• Apple iPhone XS Max• Apple iPhone 11• Apple iPhone 11 Pro• Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 12• Apple iPhone 12 Mini• Apple iPhone 12 Pro• Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 13• Apple iPhone 13 Mini• Apple iPhone 13 Pro• Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 14• Apple iPhone 14 Plus• Apple iPhone 14 Pro• Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max• Apple iPhone SE 2022• Samsung Galaxy S10E• Samsung Galaxy S10• Samsung Galaxy S10+• Samsung Galaxy S20 FE• Samsung Galaxy S20• Samsung Galaxy S20+• Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S21 FE• Samsung Galaxy S21• Samsung Galaxy S21+• Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S22• Samsung Galaxy S22+• Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip3• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip4• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4• Google Pixel 6a• Google Pixel 6• Google Pixel 6 Pro• Google Pixel 7a• Google Pixel 7• Google Pixel 7 Pro  Save up to £420 when you trade in an eligible device and buy a Google Pixel 9, Pixel 9 Pro or Pixel 9 Pro XL. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then in the same transaction, order a Google Pixel 9, Pixel 9 Pro or Pixel 9 Pro XL. The trade-in saving of up to £420 is based on trading in a Samsung S22 Ultra in good condition and receiving a bonus of £250. Please note – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £250 Trade-in Bonus: • Apple iPhone X• Apple iPhone XR• Apple iPhone XS• Apple iPhone XS Max• Apple iPhone 11• Apple iPhone 11 Pro• Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 12• Apple iPhone 12 Mini• Apple iPhone 12 Pro• Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 13• Apple iPhone 13 Mini• Apple iPhone 13 Pro• Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 14• Apple iPhone 14 Plus• Apple iPhone 14 Pro• Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max• Apple iPhone SE 2022• Samsung Galaxy S10E• Samsung Galaxy S10• Samsung Galaxy S10+• Samsung Galaxy S20 FE• Samsung Galaxy S20• Samsung Galaxy S20+• Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S21 FE• Samsung Galaxy S21• Samsung Galaxy S21+• Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S22• Samsung Galaxy S22+• Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip3• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip4• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4• Google Pixel 6a• Google Pixel 6• Google Pixel 6 Pro• Google Pixel 7a• Google Pixel 7• Google Pixel 7 Pro  Save up to £520 when you trade in an eligible device and buy a Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold. To get this trade-in saving, trade in an eligible phone in-store or use the Trade-in Tool in the My Vodafone app. Then in the same transaction, order a Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold. The trade-in saving of up to £520 is based on trading in a Samsung S22 Ultra in good condition and receiving a bonus of £350. Please note – You can only get the Trade-in Bonus if you choose to take your trade-in value as a monthly airtime saving or trade-in credit. If you choose bank transfer, you'll receive your trade-in value without the Trade-in Bonus. Devices eligible for £350 Trade-in Bonus: • Apple iPhone X• Apple iPhone XR• Apple iPhone XS• Apple iPhone XS Max• Apple iPhone 11• Apple iPhone 11 Pro• Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 12• Apple iPhone 12 Mini• Apple iPhone 12 Pro• Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 13• Apple iPhone 13 Mini• Apple iPhone 13 Pro• Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max• Apple iPhone 14• Apple iPhone 14 Plus• Apple iPhone 14 Pro• Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max• Apple iPhone SE 2022• Samsung Galaxy S10E• Samsung Galaxy S10• Samsung Galaxy S10+• Samsung Galaxy S20 FE• Samsung Galaxy S20• Samsung Galaxy S20+• Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S21 FE• Samsung Galaxy S21• Samsung Galaxy S21+• Samsung Galaxy S21 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy S22• Samsung Galaxy S22+• Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip3• Samsung Galaxy Z Flip4• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3• Samsung Galaxy Z Fold4• Google Pixel 6a• Google Pixel 6• Google Pixel 6 Pro• Google Pixel 7a• Google Pixel 7• Google Pixel 7 Pro  Saving claims verification: See details on the relevant product page. VAT: All pricing inclusive unless stated otherwise. For prices stated exclusive of VAT, the VAT rate payable is 20%. Gift with Purchase: See details on product page including any additional terms. *Annual Price Increase: During your minimum period, each year, on 1 April, your monthly plan charge will increase as follows: £1.80 for Pay monthly Airtime and Data plans £1 for Pay monthly Basics plans £3 for Home Broadband and GigaCube plans Out of bundle charges will increase each April by Consumer Price Index rate published in January of that year + 3.9%. Minimum term agreement, eligibility, credit check and terms apply. Representative example for Device Plans: Example Device Plan breakdown Total cost of device £1,000 Upfront cost £100 APR 0% Total credit amount £900 Length of contract 36 months Monthly Device Plan cost £25 Figures used in the above (other than the representative APR) are for illustrative purposes only. Device Plan: means devices purchased from Vodafone under a Consumer Credit Agreement such as phones (Phone Plan), smartwatches (Watch Plan), tablets (Tablet Plan) and laptops (Laptop Plan). Vodafone EVO: For Mobile: lets you select a monthly Device Plan Credit Agreement (3-36 months) with a monthly Airtime Plan. Phone Plans over 12 months require a 24-month Monthly Airtime Plan. You can pay off your Device Plan early, and if you do, you can then keep your Airtime Plan on a 30-day contract or leave. If your Airtime Plan ends for any reason, you will need to keep on paying your monthly Device Plan (either in full or monthly) For Smartwatches: lets you select a monthly Device Plan Credit Agreement (over 3-36 months) with a monthly Connectivity Plan. Watch Plans over 12 months require a 24 month Connectivity Plan. You can pay off your Device Plan early, and if you do, you can keep your Connectivity Plan on a 30-day contract or leave. If your Connectivity Plan ends, the Device Plan is still payable (either in full or monthly). Watch Plans require a Vodafone pay monthly airtime plan and a Connectivity Plan (via Vodafone OneNumber) For Laptops / Tablets: lets you select a monthly Device Plan Credit Agreement (3-48 months) with a 24 month Data Plan. You can pay off your Device Plan early, and if you do, you can then keep your Data Plan on a 30-day contract or leave. If your Data Plan ends for any reason, you will need to keep on paying your monthly Device Plan (either in full or monthly) Upgrade from month 3: means a) buying a new Device Plan (which is a credit agreement) and an Airtime/Data/Connectivity Plan (as applicable) and b) either (i) paying off the remaining amount on your current Device Plan prior to upgrading, or (ii) paying for your current Device Plan along with your new Device Plan. Subject to credit check, eligibility and terms. Trade-in Guarantee: Available when you trade-in an eligible device using our Trade-in Tool, and purchase a new Vodafone Pay Monthly Airtime Plan. Your Trade-in value is guaranteed for 7 days from the date of your Trade-in Quote. Device must be returned within 14 days of the start of your new Airtime Plan and meet our requirements. You can select to receive your Trade-in value via a monthly airtime saving, a credit to your Vodafone account, or a bank transfer. Please see our Trade-in Guarantee terms and conditions, which also details the eligibility criteria. Trade-in Bonus: Available when we're running a Trade-in Bonus promotion, where you could get an additional bonus on top of the trade-in value for the phone you're trading in, when you buy a new phone. Eligibility for the bonus and the bonus value may vary depending on which phone you're trading in and which new phone you're buying. Please see our Trade-in Bonus terms and conditions, for more information. Unlimited data: available on Unlimited Lite Plan (max download and upload speed of 2Mbps), Unlimited Plan (max download and upload speeds of 10Mbps) and Unlimited Max Plan. Speed may vary by a number of factors. 5G: You must have a 5G enabled device on the Vodafone 5G network, a Vodafone 5G plan and 5G coverage in the area that you are in. Coverage may be affected by a number of factors. Find out more about our 5G network 5G Ultra: You must have a 5G Ultra enabled device on a Vodafone Pay Monthly plan purchased after 24 February 2023, and be in an area covered by our 5G Ultra network. Coverage may be affected by a number of factors. Find out more about our 5G Ultra network  Buy-Back Price Guarantee: Customers who bought an eligible phone from Vodafone and trade that phone in via our Trade-in Tool (in a good working condition), whilst upgrading to a new phone and Airtime Plan within the required timeframe, will be entitled to receive a guaranteed buy-back price. Buy-back price varies depending on model variant. Terms apply iPhone 14 - trade in between 1 September 2023 and 31 October 2023 Samsung Galaxy S23 - trade in between 10 January 2024 and 1 April 2024 iPhone 15 - trade in between 1 September 2024 and 31 October 2024 The UK's Best Phone Buy-Back Price Guarantee: 'UK's Best' because we: i) guarantee future buy-back price ii) offer flexible payment options iii) don't charge extra iv) offer flexibility to trade in and upgrade from month 3; and v) boost the trade-in value by £50 vs major competitors. Details and verification: vodafone.co.uk/buy-back Roaming: using your home data plan to roam in Zone A is included in all of our Pay Monthly plans. For roaming in other destinations, charges will apply depending on which plan you are on. Roaming Passes: For Pay Monthly customers without European roaming included in their plan, you can purchase an 8 or 15 day European roaming pass to use your monthly UK allowance of calls, texts and data in our Zone B destinations. The 8 day pass is £12 and the 15 day pass is £17. Out of bundle charges such as picture messages, premium calls or premium texts are not covered by this charge. These passes are subject to a 25GB roam fair use policy. Passes become active when you start roaming and only one pass can be used at a time. For more information and terms, visit our roaming page Information on roaming with Vodafone List of our inclusive roaming destinations Lifetime Service Promise: means a) Lifetime warranty covering manufacturer's defects, provided you have an active pay monthly Airtime plan + b) Battery refresh replacing your phone's battery (for 2-3 years) if it fails one of the Battery refresh tool tests. On phones purchased directly from Vodafone. Lifetime Warranty: is an extended warranty covering manufacturer's defects (on phones purchased via Vodafone directly), provided you have an active pay monthly Airtime plan. Excludes damaged and tampered phones. Terms apply Battery Refresh: replaces your phone's battery if it fails one of the Battery Refresh Tool tests. Available for up to three years depending on your plan. On phones purchased via Vodafone directly. Excludes damaged and tampered phones. Terms apply UK's Only Lifetime Service Promise: Vodafone is the only network that offers both i) Lifetime Warranty which covers your phone for manufacturer defects provided you have an active pay monthly Airtime plan, and ii) Battery Refresh which offers phone battery health checks and required replacements for up to 3 years. Terms apply Smartwatch: requires a) Vodafone pay monthly Airtime plan, and b) 12 or 24 month Connectivity Plan (via Vodafone OneNumber). Watch Plans over 12 months require a 24 month Connectivity Plan. Terms apply Vodafone OneNumber Connectivity Plan ('Connectivity Plan'): uses your minutes, texts and data allowance from your Airtime Plan using Vodafone OneNumber. You must have an Airtime Plan with us in order to purchase a Connectivity Plan. Smartwatch Connectivity plans can be bought for a smartwatch you already own, or for a new smartwatch you purchase through us. Tablet Connectivity plans can only be bought for a tablet you already own. Two-Year Warranty (formerly called Total Care Warranty) is a 24-month warranty that starts from the date your device (purchased from Vodafone), is dispatched. This covers manufacturer's defects in the materials and workmanship of the device through normal use. Excludes damaged and tampered devices. Not applicable with Laptops. Terms apply Two-Year Warranty (formerly called Total Care Warranty) is a 24-month warranty that starts from the date your device (purchased from Vodafone), is dispatched. This covers manufacturer's defects in the materials and workmanship of the device through normal use. Excludes damaged and tampered devices. Not applicable with Laptops. Terms apply Unlimited Bundle: An Unlimited Pay as you go Bundle lasts for 30 days. Your bundle will automatically renew every 30 days if you have enough credit. To opt out call 2345. Includes unlimited data and unlimited minutes and texts: minutes to standard mobiles and landlines (UK: 01, 02, 03) and standard texts (excluding MMS) to use in the UK and Zone A. Unlimited Bundle terms, exclusions and destinations Pay as you go Bundles (Big Value Bundle) excluding Unlimited Bundle: Unlimited minutes to standard mobiles and landlines (UK: 01, 02, 03), standard texts and a set allowance of data (excluding Extras) to use in the UK and Zone A. Last 30 days. Automatically renews every 30 days if you have enough credit. Opt out by calling 2345. Pay as you go Bundles are also known as Big Value Bundles. For more information, please visit our Pay as you go Bundles terms and conditions page Total Rollover: Any unused allowance from your current Pay as you go Bundle will only rollover from one bundle to the next, for use in the next 30-day period, if your Pay as you go Bundle renews automatically. Pay as you go 1: You'll pay just £1 each day you use your phone, which gives you: Unlimited minutes, Unlimited texts, 50MB of data to use until midnight. For more information, please visit our Pay as you go 1 terms and conditions page Roaming: Your data usage is for use in the UK and Zone A destinations only, unless you purchase one of our roaming extras. For more info and destinations beyond Zone A, visit our extras page. For terms visit our terms and conditions pages Pay as you go Plus plan: My Vodafone app required. UK and Zone A use only unless Roaming Extra purchased. Minutes to standard mobiles and landlines (UK: 01, 02, 03), standard texts and plan data allowance (excluding Extras). Auto-Renews every 30 days if opted in via My Vodafone app and payment card added. Purchase Extras and manage payments through My Vodafone app. Plan stops after 30 days if paused or cancelled (by opting out of Auto-Renew). If opted out and you do not choose another plan, you can only receive inbound calls and texts once your 30-day plan ends. You must opt back in and re-purchase a new plan to use data, minutes, send texts or buy Extras. For terms and more information see the Pay as you go Plus terms and conditions Roaming: Your data usage is for the UK and Zone A destinations only, unless you purchase one of our roaming extras in the My Vodafone app. Your extra will run until the day it expires (at 11:59pm UK time) or when it is used up, whichever is sooner. For more information on roaming destinations, see our roaming page or the My Vodafone app. For Extras terms, see the terms and conditions page Home Broadband: For details and terms see our Home Broadband page Full Fibre: Vodafone is the largest Full Fibre provider in the UK with Full Fibre available to 15.1 million out of 31.9 million premises - approximately 47% UK coverage (31.9 million premises from: Ofcom, Connected Nations 2023: UK report and Methodology annex) These terms are available in our terms and conditions pages If you're a consumer go to Consumer then Insurance then Insurance terms and conditions If you're a sole trader go to Business then Insurance then Insurance - Current VeryMe Rewards: See My Vodafone app for end dates and full terms and conditions. Pay as you go customers must have topped up at least £10 credit on their account in the last 6 weeks to participate. Pay as you go Plus customers must have Auto-Renew switched on to participate in certain prizes and competitions. VeryMe won A Silver in the Brand Partnership Activation of the Year category and a Gold in the Loyalty Activation of the Year category at the 2020 IPM Awards. See verification on the IPM website VeryMe helped Vodafone win Best Network for Loyalty and Retention at the Mobile Industry Awards 2020. See verification on the Techrader website Vodafone VeryMe, TMW Unlimited and Mando-Connect won Best Use of CRM at the Loyalty Magazine Awards 2020. See verification on the IPM website Reliable, award-winning network: The UK relies on Vodafone as a network provider as it: i) powers critical national infrastructure and 82% of Emergency Services (see our Public Sector Portal for further information), ii) has coverage in 99% of UK homes, iii) covers 96% of the UK's landmass; and iv) has won numerous awards See full details and awards on our Network page The Nation's Network: Vodafone - nation's most valuable brand, verified by Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable UK Brands Report 2023, and supporting the nation since 1984 through to 2024's major summer events. See full verification of the substantiation [PDF: 1.24MB] For full terms and conditions, visit our terms and conditions page Finance subject to status and credit checks. 18 +. Direct debit required. Credit provided by Vodafone Limited, FCA reference Number: 712210, Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 2FN Trade-in Guarantee and Trade-in Bonus terms and conditions Friendlier to the planet and your pocket - on the UK's only major network to offer a two-year warranty with every Pay monthly refurbished phone. Discover the whole range of Apple devices, from iPhones to iPads and Apple smartwatches. Discover the whole range of Samsung devices, from phones to tablets and smartwatches. Learn more about the Google devices available through Vodafone. Registered in England and Wales. Company No 01471587. Registered Office: Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 2FN. *Annual Price Increase: During your minimum period, the monthly cost will increase each year on 1 April by £1.80 for Pay monthly plans with Airtime/Data, and £3 for Home Broadband plans. This doesn't affect Device Plans. More information: vodafone.co.uk/pricechanges © 2024 Vodafone Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority for consumer credit lending and insurance distribution activity (Financial Services Register No. 712210) 