

							14 December 2022
						
 
															Xaar opens a state-of-the-art inkjet printing laboratory in Shenzhen, China, comprising the latest printhead test equipment and print process experimentation platforms. Utilising its own printheads, ink recirculation system and fluids, Xaar will collaborate with leading local electronics companies to achieve synergy across the industry supply chain.
							
							 The laboratory will focus on providing Xaar’s customers and partners in China, including scientific research institutions, a variety of services. This will include support in areas such as sample printing, solution development, printhead nozzle status detection and waveform adjustments for new applications, providing a printing solution showcase and technical consultation for the greater use of inkjet technologies.  Sectors supported include ceramics, glass, PCB, textiles, 3D printing, packaging and labels, with inkjet printing support provided locally to help customers develop more targeted application solutions and achieve faster innovation cycles, all whilst reducing their R&D investment. Graham Tweedale, COO at Xaar, said; "We are delighted to establish our Inkjet Printing Lab and provide an enhanced development platform for all our customers and partners in China. Xaar’s industry-leading technology and products, market-proven solutions and technical support will be fully utilised to better serve our customers, meeting the needs of an extensive range of users to achieve greater cooperation and a ‘win-win’ for us all." 
 
						14 December 2022
					 Posted by
								Xaar Plc
 
																					Xaar is a world leader in the development of digital inkjet technology
											...
																			 
View profile
 Share article 









 Cambridge Network Limited is a company registered in England under company No. 3400152 The Hauser Forum, 3 Charles Babbage Road, Cambridge, CB3 0GT Email: enquiry@cambridgenetwork.co.uk, Tel: 01223 746801  © 2024 Cambridge Network. All Rights Reserved. Website by KISS