Many organizations across Vietnam are increasingly looking towards cloud-based Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solutions to streamline their operations, enhance scalability, overcome challenges, and drive efficiency. However, organizations need knowledgeable business partners to help guide them through their transformation journey, navigate changes, and achieve lifetime business value from their investments by leveraging the benefits of cloud solutions. ABeam Consulting (Vietnam) has gained extensive experience in various business and industry domains through years of consulting. The company provides a comprehensive range of consulting services that leverage the latest digital technologies, address the challenges faced by all industries, and support business innovation to accelerate management decision-making and growth. Ryohei Oda, Managing Director of ABeam Consulting Vietnam. Photo courtesy of ABeam Ryohei Oda, Managing Director of ABeam Consulting (Vietnam), said that many companies hold back because of several uncertainties and challenges around cloud services and solutions. ABeam's consulting services have been designed to assist clients and help them reach their fullest potential at any stage of digital transformation. "Customers can meet their budget and business needs. When they see the components and services clearly mapped out, moving to the cloud will feel safe, easy, and efficient," Oda said. However, organizations in Vietnam are expected to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of the current Vietnamese accounting standards by 2025 in their efforts to enhance comparability and improve transparency. SAP S/4HANA Cloud is designed to set up flexible parallel accounting, simplify, and automate to comply with the new legal requirement from Vietnam that mandates the adoption of the international accounting standards IFRS. ABeam Consulting has the largest number of certified SAP consultants in Vietnam. It was among the first consultancies to offer customers "RISE with SAP" and "Grow with SAP". These are the comprehensive service packages from SAP that integrate all the elements necessary for business transformation using ERP applications and cloud services. ABeam customers and partners in a SAP related event. Photo courtesy of ABeam Moreover, the project teams combine industry-expert consultants abundantly experienced in the client's business field with consultants who specialize in processes and technologies, including the latest SAP solutions such as SAPS/4HANA, C/4HANA, SAP Analytics Cloud, SAP Datasphere, SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP), SAP SuccessFactors, SAP Concur, SAP Ariba, and SAP Integrated Business Planning. This enables the firm to provide numerous and diverse SAP consulting services fine-tuned to the client’s business to help them achieve true business transformation. Despite the competitiveness of the high-tech solutions market in Asia, earlier this year SAP announced ABeam Consulting as its first partner for the Regional Strategic Services Partner (RSSP) initiative. The RSSP initiative enables partners to scale their SAP practices more quickly across the region and collaborate more closely with SAP to deliver joint customer success. ABeam Consulting (Vietnam) was established in June 2018. The company has more than 70 consultants, including Japanese experts and Vietnamese consultants in SAP, S&O, and DX, and serves clients throughout Asia, the U.S., and Europe. See more information about ABeam here. Subsidiary of VnExpress License number: 71/GP-CBC, Ministry of Information andCommunications, September 22, 2021 Editor-in-Chief: Pham Van Hieu Email: evne@vnexpress.netTel: 028 7300 9999 - Ext 8556  FPT Tower, 10 Pham Van Bach Street, Dich Vong Ward, Cau Giay District, Hanoi, Vietnam © Copyright 1997 VnExpress.net. All rights reserved.