Vodafone have worked with ITN to dedicate a slice of Vodafone’s public 5GSA network The Coronation of HRH King Charles III will be the first time in the UK a public 5G Standalone (5GSA) network is used for a broadcast, due to a partnership between Vodafone and ITN. Vodafone have worked with ITN to dedicate a slice of Vodafone’s public 5GSA network for the broadcast of the Coronation – the first time any UK telco has provided a slice of its public 5GSA network for a major event broadcast. This follows Vodafone being the first UK telco to test its 5GSA network for public use in Jan 2023 to select consumers to trial the new network’s capabilities. Dedicating an exclusive slice of Vodafone’s public 5GSA network to ITN will enable the swift and secure transfer of the live Coronation broadcast coverage from Westminster to ITN’s HQ newsroom in Gray’s Inn Road, so it can then be shared across the nation and then worldwide. Nick Gliddon, UK Business Director, Vodafone, said: “This innovative partnership will make HRH King Charles III Coronation the first 5GSA coronation. We are proud to be working with ITN to play our part in helping make this special event happen. Innovation is at the heart of Vodafone, from the first text message to the first mobile call, we have been central in the UK’s adoption of digital technology. Now we are continuing this tradition by being the first to switch on 5GSA for the public to trial and providing a slice of this network for the Coronation. The possibilities with 5GSA are very exciting - AI, autonomous vehicles, holographic calls, IoT and more, 5GSA will turbo-charge the UK’s digital economy and pave the way for our next digital age.” Jon Roberts, Director of Television, Production and Innovation at ITN, says: “It feels fitting that 70 years on from the 1953 Coronation, itself a milestone in outside broadcasting, ITN will be delivering coverage to audiences around the world whilst trialling the future of cellular connectivity. We are proud of our role in broadcasting this historic event, and excited to be blazing a trail in partnership with Vodafone as we explore the capabilities of 5GSA technology together.”