The GTA Online Acid Lab is in a Brickade 6x6 truck, and you unlock it by completing the First Dose missions 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The GTA Online Acid Lab is a Brickade 6x6 truck that has been converted into a mobile drug lab, and getting hold of it is critical if you want to manufacture and supply certain narcotics. In order to unlock it you need to complete the six First Dose missions, which then gives you access to a final freeroam mission to steal the necessary supplies so you can get your drug business underway. The Acid Lab forms a significant part of the GTA Online Los Santos Drug Wars update, though if you want to get things up and running with the Fooliganz then there are various steps you need to complete in GTA Online to launch your mobile enterprise. For the lowdown on all of this, here's what you need to know to get the Acid Lab in GTA Online.  To get access to the GTA Online Acid Lab, you first need to complete all six of the First Dose Dax Contact Missions from the Los Santos Drug Wars update: The last First Dose mission involves stealing the Brickade 6x6 truck and stashing it in The Freakshop, but you'll then need to complete a freeroam mission by visiting one of the marked warehouses to steal the necessary lab equipment to convert it into the Acid Lab. Inside the warehouse, eliminate the guards then use the forklift to load up the equipment onto the Flatbed truck, before driving it back to The Freakshop while dealing with any enemies who attack you en route.  To get the GTA Online Acid Lab up and running, speak to Mutt near the truck and pay the GTA$750,000 fee to install the lab equipment – though this is free if you subscribe to GTA+. When you set up the lab you'll also get access to the Manchez Scout C motorbike alongside the Brickade 6x6, which you can use for sell missions with your product. Once you've purchased it you can run it as a business, which operates separately from the Motorcycle Club drug business if you own it, so the two can run in tandem. Either talk to Mutt at The Freakshop or call him from your phone contacts to request supplies for the Acid Lab, which cost GTA$60,000 each and you'll need to resupply three times to get a full stock unless you upgrade your equipment. This equipment upgrade costs GTA$250,000 but it's a wise investment, as it increases the sale value of a full supply from GTA$237,500 to GTA$335,200 so shouldn't take long to recoup your investment. You'll also get a high demand bonus when selling in public sessions, so weigh up whether that extra incentive is worth the risk of other players interfering with your product. © GamesRadar+. Not to be reproduced without permission. Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Iain originally joined Future in 2012 to write guides for CVG, PSM3, and Xbox World, before moving on to join GamesRadar in 2013 as Guides Editor. His words have also appeared in OPM, OXM, PC Gamer, GamesMaster, and SFX. He is better known to many as ‘Mr Trophy’, due to his slightly unhealthy obsession with amassing intangible PlayStation silverware, and he now has over 550 Platinum pots weighing down the shelves of his virtual award cabinet. He does not care for Xbox Achievements. Street Fighter 2 character designer reveals a side-scrolling Metroidvania that's also a curry restaurant management sim, all in his signature pixel art style "Please pirate it because none of us work at the company that owns this anymore": Dev of stylish skating shooter marks its 2-year anniversary with a call for piracy After dealing with backend bugs for 14 months, acclaimed Metroidvania dev scraps Xbox port that could've taken "less than two weeks" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 