Dropped in a coffin, mulched, sunk in wet concrete and a beaver costume fail are among the more than 22,000 iPhone accidents reported to telco Vodafone in the last year. See some of the others. Don't miss out on the headlines from Victoria. Followed categories will be added to My News. As the much-anticipated waterproof iPhone 15 hits Australia, telco Vodafone has revealed some of the craziest reasons customers have given in the past year for breaking or losing their mobiles. More than 22,000 device accidents have been reported to the telco in the last 12 months with beaver bungles and funeral fumbles among the strangest.  More than 1,300 smartphones are damaged or lost each day in Australia, at a cost of $755 million over the last five years.  The new iPhone 15, now being shipped to Aussies who pre-ordered, is waterproof to a maximum depth of six metres for up to 30 minutes.  Funeral fumble: This unfortunate soul accidentally dropped their phone into an open coffin.  Beaver bungle: A costume party, a beaver tail, and a dramatic fall. One unsuspecting guest’s phone tragically became a casualty in a dance gone wrong.  Mulched: During some routine backyard landscaping, a phone took an unexpected dive into a mulcher, meeting a gruesome end.  Lost in the loo: Many customers have dropped their device in the toilet. Concrete catastrophe: A phone found itself in the wrong place at the wrong time — a construction-site pit, filled with three tonnes of wet concrete.  Monkey mischief: This bananas situation occurred when a mischievous monkey decided to swipe the phone and run. Disengagement: It was supposed to be an engagement to remember, but when the person proposing got down on one knee at the jetty to pull out the ring, their phone tumbled into the water.  Slippery when wet: An eager dancer on a boat cruise got a slippery surprise when their phone took an unexpected dip into the depths below.  Toddler toss: A toddler had taken their parent’s phone and unceremoniously launched it from their bedroom balcony.  Renovation nightmare: A tradie who lost their phone into a wall cavity accidentally sliced the device in two when they tried to cut it out of the tight space.  A Vodafone spokesman said the telco had released the data to promote its new Device Care program, which allowed customers return broken phones or receive a replacement for a lost one without “ever having to give an embarrassing reason again”.  “We’ve heard more than 22,000 things that can happen to a mobile device — from flushing phones down the toilet, to customers’ cats pushing tablets off the kitchen table. With Vodafone you can join the ranks of proud Australians who laugh in the face of cracked screens, submerged phones, and gravity-defying drops,” he said. “Our new Vodafone Device Care is an affordable way to exchange your device or replace your mobile phone for any reason, whether it is in perfect condition or not.” Originally published as Vodafone reveals most bizarre ways Aussies have lost or broken their mobiles, as iPhone 15 arrives To join the conversation, please
 log in. Don't have an account?
 Register Join the conversation, you are commenting as  Logout A young Melbourne family have jumped on an architectural marvel just outside of the city with its own eye-catching eco retreat. See inside Ambulance Victoria’s chief executive has resigned as the embattled service continues to be plagued by a string of crises. Our Apps