In line with the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to promote 'Vikas Bhi, Virasat Bhi', Lieutenant Governor Delhi VK Saxena on Thursday unveiled restored heritage structures at Mehrauli Archaeological Park as part of the government's efforts to conserve Delhi's rich heritage and its ancient glory. Meenakashi Lekhi, Minister of State for Culture, and Subhasish Panda, Vice Chairman, Delhi Development Authority, were also present on the occasion. The LG has been personally monitoring the entire project, and several coordination meetings were held under his supervision to resolve various pending issues, ensuring proper coordination among various departments. All the works have been completed in record time due to the regular monitoring and site inspections by the LG. Lt Governor Saxena said, "Within 6 to 7 months, this place has transformed. People of Delhi deserve good places where they can spend leisure time with their family and we are making all efforts to revive heritage places." The cost of the project is approximately Rs 2.6 crore. The Mehrauli Archaeological Park now boasts of restored and conserved heritage structures including Balban's Tomb complex, which was once completely covered with weeds. It has improved landscaping and additional greens in and around restored historic structures. Vantage points have been created for mesmerizing view of Qutub Minar from the park. Additionally, Quli Khan Tomb which was lying in a dilapidated state, has been restored with intricate interior works. The monuments have been interconnected with pathways and access has been given to all the 55 heritage structures of the park, which were earlier missing. The Park also has a rejuvenated water body near Metcalfe Boathouse with aerator fountains, cascades, and illumination. Besides, important heritage structures/ monuments have also been illuminated. There are adequate public amenities for visitors to spend leisure time in the park. The restoration and conservation works have been done on the principles of heritage conservation, maintaining the authenticity and structural integrity of the structures. Also, suitable adaptive reuses have been proposed to enhance the visitor's experience and to preserve the historical and cultural value of heritage structures while giving them new functions and uses as per the global practice. The Masterplan, 2021 and Unified Building Bye-Laws, 2016 of Delhi immensely promote the adaptive reuse of historic buildings and this principle has been applied in the Park. The restoration and repair work has been carried out using the traditional materials and techniques Lime Surkhi, prepared using Ural dal and other organic additives. DDA has been playing a pivotal role in restoring the heritage structures in the national capital. Conservation of St James Church and Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti Renewal are some of the other projects undertaken by DDA recently. The LG, Delhi visited the site thrice on February 04, May 06 and July 29 respectively wherein directions for conservation and restoration, repair and maintenance including beautification, landscaping, desilting etc. were issued to various departments such as DDA, Deptt. of Archaeology, GNCTD and ASI. Several coordination meetings have been held under LG, Delhi, to resolve the various issues, ensuring proper coordination among various departments and facilitating approvals from various statutory bodies. All the works have been completed in record time due to regular monitoring and the valuable guidance & support of LG, Delhi. (ANI) (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024