The Other Voices Cardigan 2023 lineup at St. Mary's Church in West Wales will showcase the very best talent from the worlds of alt-pop, post-punk, folk, indie, and more on Friday, October 27, and Saturday, October 28. All performances will be presented by Huw Stephens and livestreamed via the OV YouTube on the big screen Mwldan in the heart of Cardigan, right here on IrishCentral, and over on the IrishCentral Facebook page. Coming to you live from St. Mary's Church on Friday, October 27, will be one of Wales' most exciting exports, The Joy Formidable, who make their Other Voices debut at the festival. They join alt-pop superstar Sans Soucis, extraordinary triple harpist Cerys Hafana, and the double Welsh Music Prize-winning rockers Adwaith on the Friday bill.  Other Voices favourite King Creosote returns to the Other Voices stage for a Church set on Saturday, October 28, alongside Mercury Music Prize nominees Yard Act, gifted singer-songwriter Susan O'Neill, and Irish musical royalty Colm Mac Con Iomaire.  Sign up to IrishCentral's newsletter to stay up-to-date with everything Irish! To get you ready for Other Voices Cardigan 2023,  check out this Spotify playlist featuring the artists set to perform live at St. Mary's Churchhttps://open.spotify.com/playlist/2451W87L251dKtdZuqmwP7?si=aaaf72198e934e19:  Aside from these special performances from St. Mary's Church, Other Voices Cardigan will feature live sets across The Music Trail from the very best emerging acts on the scene, as well as a series of mind-opening conversations & ideas at the Clebran Sessions. You can explore the mix of artists performing on The Music Trail in this Spotify playlist:  Other Voices started as a one-off music event in a small church in Dingle, a small fishing village in the west of Ireland and over the last 22 years the idea has grown. Other Voices is now an established fixture in the musical calendar - a ‘must attend’ event for performers and audiences alike. Other Voices has led to the creation of an international music TV series and the filming of that series subsequently became a music festival, a tourism event in its own right that celebrates the local on a global scale. In recent years Other Voices has travelled to London, Belfast, New York, Austin, Texas and Berlin. Other Voices Cardigan is produced by South Wind Blows in partnership with Mwldan and Triongl and made possible thanks to the support and investment of Welsh Government and The Department of Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport and Media. The performances will be filmed by Triongl for later broadcast on S4C and RTÉ.  Related: Music