Availability:
                        										Online Options The development of business, management, leadership, and human resource development
                        skills in combination with technology. The Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Technology program at the University of
                        Southern Mississippi has been designed with reference to the Talent Development Capability
                        ModelTM  from the Association for Talent Development (ATD). Request infoOnline Program Details Apply If you have completed or are completing a two-year technical degree or a technical
                                    certificate and are interested in developing your leadership and management skills
                                    for your future career, this program is for you.  You can transfer up to 75 credit hours (45 technical hours plus additional general
                                    education or elective hours). Our advisors will help you determine the exact number
                                    of hours that are eligible to transfer. Program Pathway  If you have an A.S. or A.A.S., teach in a technical field at a community college,
                                    and wish to earn your Bachelor's degree, our APT program may be the right fit for
                                    you. You can keep teaching while you take our online classes and finish your B.A.S.
                                    We have had several of your colleagues from across the state and neighboring states
                                    in our program, and they have been excellent students because of their experience.  You can also transfer up to 75 credit hours (45 technical hours plus additional general
                                    education or elective hours). Our advisors will help you determine the exact number
                                    of hours that are eligible to transfer. Our Bachelor of Applied Science program in Applied Technology prepares you to become
                                    a skilled  manager and leader in your field and moves your career to the next level.  Anyone with fewer than the 30 hours of technical course credit required for program
                                    admission may substitute up to nine (9) missing credit hours with any of the following:   Program Pathway  The Bachelor of Applied Science in Applied Technology program provides an opportunity
                                    for active service members and veterans to prepare for their future careers in leadership
                                    and management if they You will be able to apply up to 45 hours of military credit toward your B.A.S. degree
                                    in Applied Technology at USM.   USM’s and APT’s Commitment to Active Duty and Retired Service Members Cooperative Partnership The University of Southern Mississippi is an Air University Associate to Baccalaureate
                                    (AU-ABC) Cooperative partner! The University of Southern Mississippi Bachelor of Applied
                                    Science (BAS) in Applied Technology is the first officially approved degree in the
                                    AU-ABC program. The AU-ABC partnership marks an important milestone in providing a
                                    smooth transition for Air Force students pursuing their bachelor’s degree at Southern
                                    Miss. The University of Southern Mississippi accepts Joint Services Transcripts (JST) for
                                    Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, and Navy service and CCAF transcripts for Air Force
                                    service.  Visit our Center for Military Veterans, Service Members and Families to learn more about our services.  Individuals enrolled in this interdisciplinary degree program will learn how to PROGRAM REQUIREMENTSSEMESTER GUIDEstudent learning outcomesConcentration Electives   School of Leadership 730 East Beach BlvdNorth Academic Building Room 201Long Beach, MS 39560 Gulf Park Campus Program Coordinator Dr. Carsten Schmidtke Campus Map Emailcarsten.schmidtkeFREEMississippi Phone228.214.3418  118 College DriveHattiesburg, MS 39406-0001 601.266.1000 Contact Us Hattiesburg Campus Map 730 East Beach BoulevardLong Beach, MS 39560 228.865.4500 Contact Us Gulf Park Campus Map © 2024 The University of Southern Mississippi. All rights reserved. 