New Delhi: The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is keeping an eye out for Vodafone Idea's 5G service roll out plans, given that the telco is mandated to meet the minimum roll out obligations by September-October, but hasn't even announced any equipment deals yet.As per the network roll out obligations, within the first year from spectrum allotment, a telco has to commercially launch services anywhere in each of the three metros. Also, at least one city has to be provided with 5G in each of India's 22 telecom circles.“Non-compliance attracts a financial penalty, and if there is a delay of service launch of more than 52 weeks, the spectrum assigned can even be taken back,” said an official. He though said that the DoT is usually lenient and gives grace periods as well.

Advt





In the auction which ended on August 1, Vodafone Idea (Vi) acquired 5G spectrum in the 3300MHz and 26GHz 5G bands for Rs 18,799 crore. The airwaves were allocated to the winning bidders—Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vi—by the middle of September 2022, so the roll out obligations kick in a year from then. Jio and Airtel announced 5G equipment deals with Sweden’s Ericsscon, Finland’s Nokia and Korea’s Samsung soon after the auction results, and launched 5G services in October. While Jio has announced plans to cover the entire country with 5G by December this year, Bharti Airtel aims to do so by March 2024, much ahead of the schedule mandated by DoT.Vi hasn’t announced any 5G roll out plans as yet.Even though Vi came out with a request for proposal (RFP) for 5G equipment last year and all three—Ericsson, Nokia and Samsung—participated and conducted some trials, the cash-strapped telco has not placed any purchase order with any of them.Queries sent to Nokia, Ericsson, Samsung and Vodafone Idea remained unanswered at the time of going to press.The telco’s newly-named chief executive officer Akshaya Moondra recently told shareholders that Vi’s 5G launch timeline could be set only after funds are arranged and gear procurements firmed up. 

Advt





The telco has for long been trying to raise funds through loans and equity. The fund raising though is stuck. External investors want to see the extent of government stake after the telco’s interest on statutory dues is converted to equity. But the government first wants investments into Vi, including from promoters, before the conversion. Banks also want clarity on capital infusion before lending.With no fresh funds, net debt of around Rs 2.2 lakh crore and gross cash balance of Rs 190 crore, at September end, 5G equipment orders are stuck.As per executives in the equipment firms, 5G roll out expenses for Vi may be somewhat higher than Bharti Airtel as the Indian JV between UK’s Vodafone Group and India’s Aditya Birla Group (ABG) has to first upgrade a 4G layer, primarily in circles with Huawei equipment. “Most likely, Vodafone Idea will go with NSA mode whenever it starts 5G, so one layer of 4G has to be upgraded by the (new) vendor for 5G roll out because Huawei is not allowed,” said an executive at one of the gear makers.  Officials told ET that the promoters - Vodafone Plc of UK and the Aditya Birla Group - have indicated a willingness to infuse around Rs 2,000-3,000 crore in the telco, which is inadequate to revive the company.  By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy 

News 

 See whats happening in Telecom sector right now 

Exclusive 

 Read and get insights from specially curated unique stories from editorial 

Leaders Speak

 Business leaders sharing their insights 

Events

 Explore and discuss challenges & trends in India's leading B2B events 

Awards 

 Recognise work that not only stood out but was also purposeful 

Webinars 

 Join leaders & experts for roundtables, conferences, panels and discussions Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter  By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions 
Advertise With Us
 We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc. 
Download ETTelecom App 
 Save your favourite articles with seamless reading experience 
Get updates on your preferred social platform
 Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more. About Us Contact Us Newsletters