 About us | Advertise with us | Contact us      Posted: 26 April 2023 | Intelligent Transport | No comments yet Since 2020, Voi’s e-scooters have provided an affordable and sustainable transport solution to the West of England’s residents and visitors, reducing congestion and pollution while boosting the local economy. Credit: Voi Technology Voi Technology has announced that its e-scooters have reached a significant milestone in the UK, with the total number of journeys in the West of England region reaching 10 million. The company had first started operating in Bristol and Bath in October 2020, as part of the UK government’s e-scooter trials, and has since expanded to cover almost the entire West of England region, including South Gloucestershire, covering around 60 square miles in total. Voi has been working closely with the West of England Combined Authority and other unitary authorities in the region to enhance the e-scooter service, which has become a crucial addition to the area’s transport network. Almost 350,000 people have signed up to use Voi scooters in the region, and the service has become popular with various groups, including commuters and students who use them to move around between the university, their accommodation and part-time jobs. Visitors to Bristol and Bath who want an affordable way of seeing the cities’ sights also use Voi scooters. A recent Voi survey revealed that the top five things that riders like best about using Voi e-scooters are that they make it easier to get around, they are an enjoyable mode of transport, and they’re sustainable, affordable and reliable. Voi currently has over 4,000 e-scooters in the region, with some available for long-term hire, giving riders exclusive use of a scooter for a month at a time. The company uses data gathered from each ride to determine how many scooters are needed at which location and sends electric vans around the city to pick up and drop off e-scooters when necessary. Voi also works closely with the local council and partners on transport plans for special events. Halting the progress of e-scooters: Why is Paris taking a step backwards?  Furthermore, independent economic research commissioned by Voi found that the West of England e-scooter trial is likely to provide a boost of just under £20 million to the local economy over the course of the trial. The company has also provided work for ex-offenders, working with Key4Life, providing them with valuable skills to help them transform their lives. Jack Samler, General Manager for Voi UK, Ireland and France, said: “Our shared e-scooters are having such a positive impact In Bristol – over 33% of riders said they were using scooters instead of cars, taxis and motorbikes, which is great for reducing congestion and pollution in the city – and they’re also boosting the region’s economy. We will continue to look at how we can constantly improve our service, whether it be by encouraging users to ride safely and considerately or looking to accommodate requests for more parking or scooters at key locations.” Marvin Rees, Mayor of Bristol, said: “Being the first e-scooter trial to reach the significant milestone of 10 million rides shows just how popular and important e-scooters are as a sustainable form of transport for residents and visitors in Bristol. E-scooters will soon have given our local economy a welcome £20 million boost, with a third of riders using them to commute to work.” If you liked this, you may also be interested in:  ▶ Neuron Mobility launches e-scooters in Perth, Australia ▶ FREE NOW pledges support to taxi drivers for EV transition Related topicsAccessibility, Active travel, Air Quality, Micro-mobility, Mobility Services, Passenger Experience Related modesBikes & Scooters Related citiesBath, Bristol, Gloucester Related countriesUnited Kingdom Related organisationsVoi Technology, West of England Combined Authority (WECA) Related peopleJack Samler, Marvin Rees By Intelligent Transport 26 April 2023 No comments yet Accessibility, Active travel, Air Quality, Micro-mobility, Mobility Services, Passenger Experience Bikes & Scooters Bath, Bristol, Gloucester United Kingdom Voi Technology, West of England Combined Authority (WECA) Jack Samler, Marvin Rees All subscriptions include online membership, giving you access to the journal and exclusive content. By  By Intelligent Transport By Matt Carney - The Go-Ahead Group By Intelligent Transport By Intelligent Transport Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

 Write for us | Advertise with us T: +44 (0)1959 563311
F: +44 (0)1959 563123     Intelligent Transport is published by: Russell Publishing Ltd.Court LodgeHogtrough HillBrasted, Kent, TN16 1NUUnited Kingdom © Russell Publishing Limited, 2010-2024. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website design and development by e-Motive Media Limited. This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorised as "Necessary" are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. For our other types of cookies "Advertising & Targeting", "Analytics" and "Performance", these help us analyse and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these different types of cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. You can adjust the available sliders to 'Enabled' or 'Disabled', then click 'Save and Accept'. View our Cookie Policy page. Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Performance cookies are includes cookies that deliver enhanced functionalities of the website, such as caching. These cookies do not store any personal information. Analytics cookies collect information about your use of the content, and in combination with previously collected information, are used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of this website. Advertising and targeting cookies help us provide our visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns.