No offers found The new season is underway for 2023 as we look at all you need to know about the ITV show 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Voice Kids is back for 2023 with a brand new line up of talented youngsters and fans want to know where it's filmed, how to watch and who are the judges? If you're gutted that Britain's Got Talent is over for another year, fear not, as The Voice Kids - the 'little sister' show of The Voice - has made a welcomed return to screens with Emma Willis presenting. A fresh group of child stars aged seven to 14 perform in front of the famous red chairs in a bid to showcase their vocal skills as they battle it out in the hope that they will impress the judges and make it through to the final.  We look at all you need to know about the new season... The Voice Kids is filmed at Elstree Studios, which is in Borehamwood - 20 minutes out of London - and has been filmed there from 2022 until present. Previously the show was filmed from Dock 10 at Media City UK in Manchester from 2017 until 2021.    The Voice Kids airs on Saturday night, from 7.30pm on ITV1 and ITVX. In its seventh year, the season will run for three episodes. The first aired on July 1st, with the second episode to air tomorrow (July 7th) and the third on July 15th. Parenting advice, hot topics, best buys and family finance tips delivered straight to your inbox. There are four judges on The Voice Kids and these are Ronan Keating, Will.i.am, Danny Jones and Pixie Lott. The show was filmed months before Pixie Lott revealed she is pregnant with her first baby. In an interview with Whattowatch.com, Will.i.am said, "I won't give too much away but church is in my squad this year. I had soul, gospel, rap, and even musical theatre going on." Meanwhile, Danny Jones teased, "Team Danny is like a mini supergroup. You've got a pop princess, some soul, a big rock singer, and a busker. I'm very proud of my team. I loved all four of them, so this year is probably one of the hardest decisions I've ever had to make..."  Meanwhile, if you've got younger children you might want to check out these Prime Day Baby deals on goodto.com ahead of the big event. Selina is a Senior Family Writer for GoodtoKnow and has more than 16 years years of experience. She specialises in royal family news, including the latest activities of Prince George, Charlotte, Louis, Archie and Lilibet. She also covers the latest government, health and charity advice for families. Selina graduated from the University of Sheffield in 2006 with a degree in Journalism, and gained her NCTJ and NCE qualifications. During her career, she’s also written for Woman, Woman's Own, Woman&Home, and Woman's Weekly as well as Heat magazine, Bang Showbiz - and the Scunthorpe Telegraph. When she's not covering family news, you can find her exploring new countryside walking routes, catching up with friends over good food, or making memories (including award-winning scarecrows!) 
What your tummy will look and feel like after giving birth, plus tips for a healthy recovery
 
By Stephanie Wood

Published 18 August 24

 
A fifth of parents don’t monitor what their children do online, resulting in large numbers of them being exposed to harmful content and bullying
 
By Fiona Ford

Published 18 August 24

 
Is Francesca in Bridgerton gay? It's a question many have asked, and you might need to have conversations around sexuality with your teen if they’re watching.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 14 June 24

 
Is Eric a true story? Every parent’s worst nightmare plays out in Netflix's latest show, against a backdrop of 80s New York grappling with AIDS and racism.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 31 May 24

 
Normal People season 2 rumours are flying around, and we have our own Marianne and Connell moments to share - because everyone remembers their first heartbreak.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 30 May 24

 
New Channel 4 drama explores the challenges of impossible standards set by social media, and how parents themselves become toxic in their need to protect their kids.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 9 May 24

 
Eagle-eyed Bluey viewers are wondering if Aunt Brandy is pregnant, following a touching moment in the season three finale.
 
By Ellie Hutchings

Published 15 April 24

 
Bluey's producer has shared an update on the show's future
 
By Ellie Hutchings

Published 12 April 24

 
CoComelon is adored by kids around the world, but some experts have shared reasons they don't think children should be watching - we look at both sides of the argument.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 17 March 24

 
The Boy and the Heron age rating: As the Oscar winning anime picks up major accolades, parents are wondering whether it's suitable for young kids.
 
By Lucy Wigley

Published 11 March 24

 GoodtoKnow is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 