 About us | Advertise with us | Contact us      Posted: 8 February 2023 | Intelligent Transport | No comments yet Voi is calling on the UK government to establish clear legislation for the e-scooter industry, detailing the need for set governance structures, data driven decision making and clear goals at the local level. Credit: Voi Technology Voi Technology has announced that it is calling on the UK government to set a clear date for legislation to secure the future of the e-scooter industry, which is revolutionising transport across the UK – or risk losing jobs and investment. Currently, shared e-scooter schemes are run as trials set up by the government to provide a new form of sustainable, easy to use and affordable transport to help local authorities reach their net zero targets. Two-and-a-half years after setting up its first scheme, Voi has seen nearly 1.2 million people take 21.5 million rides, replacing over eight million car journeys and generating more than £50 million across local economies in the cities Voi operates in the UK, in 2022 alone.  However, Matthew Pencharz, Head of Public Policy for Voi UK, Ireland and Netherlands, warns that any gains that have been made by the micro-mobility industry could be put at risk if the government is unable to give greater clarity about when legislation will be brought forward. Driving public transport usage by harnessing the power of mobility super apps  Matthew Pencharz said: “Almost three years after the trials were first started, the demand for e-scooters is proven with Voi alone having 21 million rides, replacing over eight million car journeys. However, the industry doesn’t have certainty after May next year (2024) when the trials are currently due to end. Legislation will allow more cities and towns to use e-scooters as a sustainable method of transport for their communities, providing a firmer footing for the industry and the jobs and investment connected with it.” Voi has stated that the government should follow through with its commitment to create a new, light zero-emission vehicle category for e-scooters, which are currently subject to the same regulation as motor vehicles, making the UK one of the only countries in Europe which subjects e-scooters to the same levels of regulation as cars. According to Voi, a new vehicle category should eliminate the need for all riders to have either provisional or full driving licences, opening up micro-mobility to more riders. In addition, the insurance required should be brought in line with e-bike regulation, as it would enable insurance companies to create policies better suited to e-scooters. Currently, operators must provide Motor Third Party Liability insurance, as for all motor vehicles. If you liked this, you may also be interested in:  ▶ New DfT report highlights success of Beryl e-scooter scheme in England ▶ Accelerating active travel with e-scooters and e-bikes Related topicsAccessibility, Air Quality, Micro-mobility, Mobility Services, Sustainable Urban Transport, Transport Governance & Policy, Vehicle & Passenger Safety Related modesBikes & Scooters Related countriesUnited Kingdom Related organisationsUK Government, Voi Technology Related peopleMatthew Pencharz By Intelligent Transport 8 February 2023 No comments yet Accessibility, Air Quality, Micro-mobility, Mobility Services, Sustainable Urban Transport, Transport Governance & Policy, Vehicle & Passenger Safety Bikes & Scooters United Kingdom UK Government, Voi Technology Matthew Pencharz All subscriptions include online membership, giving you access to the journal and exclusive content. By  By Intelligent Transport By Intelligent Transport By Intelligent Transport By Intelligent Transport Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

 Write for us | Advertise with us T: +44 (0)1959 563311
F: +44 (0)1959 563123     Intelligent Transport is published by: Russell Publishing Ltd.Court LodgeHogtrough HillBrasted, Kent, TN16 1NUUnited Kingdom © Russell Publishing Limited, 2010-2024. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website design and development by e-Motive Media Limited. This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorised as "Necessary" are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. For our other types of cookies "Advertising & Targeting", "Analytics" and "Performance", these help us analyse and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these different types of cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. You can adjust the available sliders to 'Enabled' or 'Disabled', then click 'Save and Accept'. View our Cookie Policy page. Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Performance cookies are includes cookies that deliver enhanced functionalities of the website, such as caching. These cookies do not store any personal information. Analytics cookies collect information about your use of the content, and in combination with previously collected information, are used to measure, understand, and report on your usage of this website. Advertising and targeting cookies help us provide our visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns.