Discover the myth of Adlershof: founded in 1754, birthplace of German aviation, and site for research, film and television. Today the area has around 20,000 inhabitants, most located in the heart of the "old village". The Technology Park is close to the former airfield, now a landscape park. The Berlin Adlershof Science City is one of the most successful high-technology locations in Germany—and Berlin’s largest media site. Renowned non-university research institutes, the natural sciences campus of Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 1,330 businesses and a rich history await you at Berlin-Brandenburg’s top Science, Business and Media hub. More than 34,000 people work and study in the science city of Adlershof, which covers an area of 4.6 km². Learn more about all the facts and figures… On 15 August 2024, the lawyer took over the position he had already assumed on an interim basis in April 2024: 
                            
                                Following the departure of the previous Managing Director Dr. Nicole Münnich in March 2024, a search committee was tasked with filling the position. Martin Böhnke, who had already been working as a Legal Advisor in…
                         With the close flybys the space probe's trajectory will be changed, setting it on the ideal course to Venus: 
                            
                                The highly anticipated space manoeuvre has been named LEGA, for 'Lunar-Earth Gravity Assist' – which roughly means Moon-Earth gravity deflection. For the first time, the orbit of a space probe will be altered by the…
                         Ferdinand-Braun-Institut (FBH) and the University of Glasgow intensify expert exchange and initiate new Visiting Professorship: 
                            
                                Berlin-based Ferdinand-Braun-Institut (FBH) and the University of Glasgow to deepen cooperation, focusing on ultra-high-power photonic applications and enhanced exchange of photonics experts and students through the…
                         The aim of the joint project was to reduce costs in the production of Cu(In,Ga)Se2 solar cells through laser-induced structure formation on surfaces: 
                            
                                The joint project "Cost-Efficient Fabrication of Cu(In,Ga)Se2 Solar Cells through Laser-Induced Surface Structuring" (KostSol), funded by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Climate Protection (BMWK), in…
                         Establishing a business in Berlin Adlershof: The development of the Science and Technology Park Berlin Adlershof was and is co-financed by the European Union namely by EFRE. This concerns infrastructure development like construction of technology centres. Furthermore EFRE is used for international projects.