Apart from being widely available on mobile phones, Voot also comes as a dedicated app on smart TVs and streaming devices. While the app can be easily installed from respective app stores, the real challenge many may face is to log in and activate Voot on their television. This is why in this article we’ll be guiding you through a step-by-step procedure on how you can access and activate Voot on your Android TV, Apple TV, Samsung smart TV, Amazon Fire Stick, and more. So without any further ado, let’s get started: Table of Contents Movies and shows from streaming platforms are best enjoyed on the big screen. So in case, you have got a smart TV at home, here’s how to activate Voot on smart TVs running different platforms and operating systems: If you have got an Android TV from brands like OnePlus, Motorola, Realme, and others, this is what you need to do to activate Voot: Got an Amazon Fire TV Stick and want to feast on Voot’s huge library of content? Here’s how to do it. Here’s how to access Voot subscription on your Samsung smart TV: Sony offers a bunch of smart TVs that come with third-party apps support. Here is how you can install and activate Voot on a Sony smart TV:   Just like Samsung, its rival LG also offers the Voot app with its wide range of smart TVs. Here’s how to get the app on LG smart TVs: Voot subscription plans 2023: Best Voot plans in India, price, offers, benefits, validity, and more Netflix plans 2024: monthly and yearly Netflix subscription plans in India Amazon Prime plans 2024: monthly, quarterly, and yearly membership price in India, benefits, Jio and Airtel offers, and more Several JioFiber plans come bundled with premium subscriptions to several OTT apps such as Netflix, Prime Video, Hotstar etc. Among these, Jio also provides access to a Voot subscription that can only be logged in and used on Jio’s set-top box. This particular set-top box needs to be installed in order to avail the OTT benefits in your broadband plan. Let’s take a look at how to activate Voot on your JioFiber STB: Voot offers its dedicated television app on Apple TV for users to catch up with their favourite movies and shows from the streaming platform. The procedure to install the app on Apple TV is as follows: Yes, Voot does come with casting support. to initiate casting from a mobile phone to a TV, just tap on the ‘casting’ icon at top of the video player when playing any content from the app. However, users need to make sure that both the phone and smart TV or Chromecast are connected to the same Wi-Fi network. If the Voot app on your TV is not functioning properly such as content not loading properly or experiencing jitters, try these troubleshooting steps and check whether it solves the problem. There can be several reasons why Voot is not working on your TV. There can be times when Voot servers may face downtimes, which can prevent the app or certain sections of it from loading. There can also be a possibility of the internet connectivity being weak, which can hamper the watching experience. Whatever the case may be, you can always contact Voot’s customer care and get assistance to figure out the problem’s root cause.