Bigg Boss 16 Finale Date, Finalists, Contestants: Bigg Boss 16 is in the last week. After four months of drama, fights, ration tasks, nomination drills, vaars, and race for captaincy, the reality show has got its top 5 finalists -- Priyanka Chahar Choudhary, Shiv Thakare, MC Stan, Archana Gautam and Shalin Bhanot.  The grand finale of the Salman Khan-hosted show will be aired on TV channel Colors and OTT platform Voot on Sunday, February 12. Salman Khan will announce the name of the winner. Bigg Boss 16 winner will get a glittering trophy. The trophy looks like a gold unicorn. The prize money is Rs 50. However, it came down to zero at one point. Now, the winner will get Rs 21 lakh and 80 thousand as the prize money. The winner will also get a swanky car - Grand i10 Nios. Ahead of the grand finale, Bigg Boss summarised the journey of all the finalists before a crowd of fans cheering for them. Also Read: Big Releases of 2023: From Pathaan, Tiger 3 to Tu Jhoothi Main Makkaar - Check release dates of upcoming Bollywood films Priyanka was shown a glimpse of her stint in the house, while the master of the house complimented her for her "buland awaaz". After MC Stan was shown his journey, 'Bigg Boss' said that he is the star of not just P-town, but the entire country, that's echoing his lingo. The rapper said that living in the house has been tough, but his "rawas" experiences on the show are takeaways that he will cherish forever. Shalin was celebrated for acting his way to the finale and playing remarkably well. The master congratulated him on powering through hardships including the ridicule that came with his relationship with Tina Datta and the mental breakdown that followed. Shiv was told that this season is historic and he is an example of why it is so. He's the only one to be crowned as the finalists of two editions of the show. No one could beat him at tasks. An overwhelmed Shiv bows down to the show and the viewers. Archana, Bigg Boss said, is the ultimate entertainer of the season. She picked the right "muddas" and is the kitchen queen of the house. 
  Get Latest Business News, Stock Market Updates and Videos; Check your tax outgo through Income Tax Calculator and save money through our Personal Finance coverage. Check Business Breaking News Live on Zee Business Twitter and Facebook. Subscribe on YouTube.

 LATEST NEWS By accepting cookies, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.