Switching between several OTT apps can be a headache if you’ve got multiple subscriptions. Fixing that problem is Tata Play Binge – an aggregator app that gathers content from numerous OTT platforms and offers them in a single window. The platform recently gained support for new regional OTT platforms – manoramaMAX, Koode, and Tarang Plus – taking up the count to 22. Here’s everything you need to know about the platform, from price to features. If you are unfamiliar with Tata Play Binge then you must’ve heard of Tata Sky. Tata Play Binge is essentially a rebranded version of the popular service. Launched in 2020, Tata Play Binge was only available to Tata Play subscribers, meaning people had to have a Tata Play DTH connection in order to use it. That changed last October when the company made the service available across multiple platforms including Android, iOS, Android TV, Fire TV, and more. Now, all a user needs to do to use the service is download the app and subscribe to Tata Play Binge. Monthly The cheapest Tata Play Binge plan starts at Rs 99 and offers video streaming on mobile and web. Supported platforms are 13, namely, MXPlayer, Manorama, Planet Marathi, Zee5, Hoichoi, Shemaroo, Koode, Nammaflix, Tarang Plus, Chaupal, Hungama, ReelDrama, Eros Now Mini 2 is identical to Mini 1 in every way, but replaces Zee5 with Voot Select. Supported platforms are MXPlayer, Manorama, Planet Marathi, Hoichoi, Shemaroo, Koode, Nammaflix, Tarang Plus, Chaupal, Hungama, ReelDrama, Eros Now, Voot Select. Saver costs an extra Rs 30 per month and adds Docubay and Epic On platforms to what you get with Mini 2. This plan will also fetch you streaming on mobile and web. The Super plan adds several international platforms to the mix. It offers 20 apps, namely, MXPlayer, Manorama, Planet Marathi, Hoichoi, Shemaroo, Koode, Nammaflix, Tarang Plus, Chaupal, Hungama, ReelDrama, Eros Now, Voot Select, Zee5, Voot Kids, Sony Liv, Disney+ Hotstar, Sun NXT. You can also watch across a wider range of devices – mobile, web, FTV and Binge+. Mega is nearly identical to Super, except it adds Lionsgate Play and CuriosityStream apps to the mix. Quarterly Mini 1 Quarterly is identical to Mini 1 monthly, except you pay on a quarterly basis and save some money along the way. Mini 2 Quarterly is identical to Mini 2 monthly, except you pay on a quarterly basis and save some money along the way. Annual  Binge Elite offers 16 apps – Epic On, MXPlayer, Docubay, Disney+ Hotstar, Manorama, Planet Marathi, Zee5, Hoichoi, Shemaroo, Koode, Nammaflix, Tarang Plus, Chaupal, Hungama, ReelDrama, Eros Now. You can watch on mobile and web. You can say that Mega Annual is Tata Play Binge’s flagship plan. It offers 21 apps – Lionsgate, CuriosityStream, MXPlayer, Manorama, Planet Marathi, Hoichoi, Shemaroo, Koode, Nammaflix, Tarang Plus, Chaupal, Hungama, ReelDrama, Eros Now, Voot Select, Zee5, Voot Kids, Sony Liv, Disney+ Hotstar, Sun NXT. You can watch on mobile, web, FTV and Binge+. 

  The Biden administration's new immigration policy allows around 500,000 spouses of US citizens to obtain citizenship without leaving the country. However, those who have already left, like Karen and Xavier Chavarria, are not eligible. This policy aims to reunite families and provide relief, but advocates are pushing for it to include those who voluntarily left the US.  