The supernatural fantasy show ‘Tere Ishq Mein Ghayal’ has been winning hearts since the first episode. Standing apart from everything else that there is to watch currently, the show’s fresh storyline and distinctive characters has set it apart. Well, here is some good news for the viewers; Tere Ishq Mein Ghayal has got an extension! The show’s storyline is at a very strategic point, and fans will be able to view new episodes of the show on Voot from June 12, 2023. The show has been produced by Yash A Patnaik and Mamta Patnaik, under Inspire Films. The cast includes Karan Kundrra, Gashmeer Mahajani and Reem Shaikh. The show’s storyline revolves around the life of Eisha, essayed by Reem Sameer Shaikh and her strong equation with the two brothers, Veer, played by Karan Kundrra and Armaan, played by Gashmeer Mahajani. The show depicts an intriguing journey of love and challenges. The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.