We play games on all the big-name VR headsets. These are the top titles for every major platform. My career has taken me through an eclectic assortment of fields, and connected me with people from all walks of life. This experience includes construction, professional cooking, podcasting, and, of course, writing. I’ve been typing up geeky takes since 2009, ultimately landing a freelancing position at PCMag. This blossomed into a full-time tech analyst position in 2021, where I lend my personal insight on the matters of web hosting, streaming music, mobile apps, and video games.  
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Virtual reality (VR) isn’t a new concept. In the past, it was expensive tech with few entertainment offerings. Nowadays, the introduction of more powerful and affordable VR headsets has created a rich seedbed for game developers to cultivate, resulting in an influx of excellent first-party games and enhanced ports that take full advantage of this unique medium. But how do you sort through the many VR games available? We can help. At PCMag, we've tested every major VR headset since the original Oculus Rift in 2013, and we've been reviewing video games for more than 20 years. Look no further than our list below to find the best VR games for your platform of choice. Best for Casual, Controller-Based Platforming Platform: PlayStation VR This colorful action-platformer puts you in control of the titular Astro, a cute, blue-eyed robot tasked with rescuing his mechanical compatriots who've been scattered across space. The game offers 20 story levels packed with platforming conundrums, epic bosses, and 26 bonus challenges to complete, which is enough content to keep you entertained for a long time. The VR elevates the platforming action by giving you richly detailed, 360-degree worlds, as well as unique, VR aiming mechanics that feature a hook shot, water gun, throwing stars, and other secondary weapons. The game is perfect for platforming enthusiasts easing into the VR space. The third-person game leverages Sony’s DualShock 4, so the controls are simple. VR gives you complete control of the camera, so you can enjoy the game without dizzying effects or movement. Best for Guitar Hero Fans Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest, Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality Beat Saber is a rhythm game with an active twist. The setup is similar to other music games, such as Audiosurf, Guitar Hero, and Rock Band, but instead of controlling a virtual ship or using fake instruments, you slash your way through a song with virtual laser swords. As the music plays, Beat Saber generates patterns of color-coded blocks that you must hit with the right or left controller as they slide towards you. Obstacles also appear that require you to duck or slide away.  If you love music and motion, Beat Saber is worth exploring. Bear in mind, however, that Beat Saber is not a game you can play sitting down; it’s a very active experience. Prepare to energetically slice music blocks, while you jam to the beat. Best for Fantasy-Based, FPS Action Platforms: HTC Vive, Oculus Rift and Rift S, Valve Index, Windows Mixed Reality Blade and Sorcery combines great physics with intuitive action to give each of your swings heft and feedback without feeling too restrictive or realistic. Add to that a telekinetic ability to summon weapons to you, blast rubble with cannon-like force, or shoot lightning from your hands, and you have a thrilling, hilarious, and utterly satisfying combat simulator to enjoy in VR. The game features extensive mod support that keeps things fresh. This is the action lover’s VR game. The brutal VR combat is as therapeutic as it is unhinged. You essentially play as a magic-toting psychopath, capable of wielding a robust selection of weapons and magic to maim and murder any hapless warrior unlucky enough to cross your path. Best for Flight Sim Fans Platforms: HTC Vive, Oculus Rift, Valve Index, Windows Mixed Reality Have you ever wanted to pilot a space ship, mine asteroids for resources, or collect bounties? Elite Dangerous delivers that in spades, as well as all the complex controls and systems required to bring the concept to life. It's basically a flight sim, which means there is a steep learning curve for every critical ship function. However, if you don’t mind plodding through a few hours of learning and failing as you come to grips with the controls, Elite: Dangerous is a beautiful, rewarding, and engrossing game in its own right. VR elevates it further, putting you right in the action and making the wonders of space a hauntingly memorable experience. Elite Dangerous has an oceanic level of depth, delivering what is essentially a spaceship simulator, with all the challenge and nuance that comes with flying a complex craft. This makes it perfect for sim fans who want to immerse themselves and coast across the inky, black ocean of space. Best for Relaxing Sports Competition Platform: PlayStation VR Everybody’s Golf features a surprising amount of control and finesse, despite its kooky golfing locales and quirky caddies. Formerly known as Hot Shots Golf, Everybody's Golf VR is the series’ first entry in the virtual reality space, and it’s a fine one. With it, you play through several courses alongside a virtual caddy, or practice your skills on the putting green or at the driving range. The game supports the PlayStation Move controller for more dynamic golfing action. If you can't get to a real golf course, the next best thing is a virtual golf game. Smacking the golf ball feels great, and there’s plenty to unlock. It lacks multiplayer modes, but you can't go wrong with this game if you want a sports title to enjoy in VR. Best for Puzzle Fans With a Soft Spot Platform: PlayStation VR You play as the titular Ghost Giant, and aid a young cat named Louis by solving puzzles, lifting items, and manipulating the game world. You can also interact with the other villagers in the fictional town of Sancourt, or explore the game’s diorama-like settings. Ghost Giant’s cartoon-like aesthetic and endearing character design is sure to win over players of all ages. Ghost Giant is packed with charm, with a great balance of puzzle-solving and interaction that gives it a familiar point-and-click adventure feel, with a unique VR twist. It’s perfect for anyone looking for a simple VR experience with an emotional hook. Best for Sci-Fi Action Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality It's not Half-Life 3 or Half-Life 2: Episode Three, but Half-Life: Alyx is the first full-fledged Half Life game that Valve has released in a long time. The game's events take place after the original Half-Life, but before Half-Life 2. As the title suggests, you play fan-favorite character Alyx Vance. Throughout the roughly 11-hour campaign, you take on enemy Combine forces and research their weaknesses. Valve built this experience specifically for VR, so expect impressive physics mechanics and top-tier graphics. Fans patiently waiting for Half Life 3 can enjoy this excellent VR romp through the universe. The storytelling, combat, and visuals are all top-notch, making Alyx a must-own VR game for anyone itching for Half-Life action. Best for Escape Room Thrills Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; Windows Mixed Reality We love a good logic puzzle, and I Expect You To Die ups the stakes by dropping you into a world of spies and villains, where your only means of survival are your wits. You play as a spy who must escape a series of life-threatening situations before time runs out. At your disposal are your wits, problem-solving skills, and telekinesis. So grab whatever you find in your surroundings; it just may save your life. If you’re a fan of escape rooms, spy flicks, or solving puzzle, this is the VR game for you. It’s a relatively short game, but the high stakes and open-ended challenges keep you thoroughly engaged. Best for High-Stakes Party Play Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR: Valve Index Do you ever wonder how much you can trust your friends? Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes is the perfect multiplayer game to do just that, as it forces you to communicate and collaborate with each other to defuse a complex bomb. Players are split into two groups: one Defuser and several Experts. Defusers can see and examine the bomb, but cannot access the manual. Experts can read the manual, but cannot see the bomb. Players must exchange information, guide each other through each painstaking step, and keep track of progress if anyone wants to make it out alive. The bomb explode if you make too many mistakes along the way, or take too long to disarm it. If you love party games, you’ll love Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes. The all-or-nothing game loop, mandatory cooperation, and crucial communication elements make it a fantastic and hilarious game to play with friends. Best for Narrative-Focused Role Playing Platforms: Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S You play as an AI entity named Jack that's tasked with assisting your captain in unraveling a dangerous mystery. Lone Echo takes place on a space station orbiting Saturn’s rings, and features photorealistic visuals, freeform movement, and excellently tuned VR controls. It also features interactive dialogue options to shape the narrative.  Lone Echo scratches that role-playing itch thanks to its character-driven storyline. The sci-fi setting, intuitive movement, and exploration-oriented gameplay make for a stellar single-player adventure. Best for Minecraft Lovers Platforms: Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; Windows Mixed Reality For the uninitiated, Minecraft is an exploration, creation, and survival game all rolled into one with a distinct, low-poly aesthetic. The game adds a series of control enhancements for the VR platform, including 3D audio, a virtual living room mode (for a break from the first-person perspective), VR Turning (snaps head swiveling motions to increments to prevent disorientation), and VR Controls (makes in-game tasks easier to manage). Minecraft VR has multiplayer modes, so you can enjoy the experience with your friends. Minecraft VR is perfect for people already addicted to the game's beloved mining-and-crafting loop. The VR enhancements make Minecraft more immersive, offering a fresh new way to play the game. This alone may not compel new players to dive in, however, as the core gameplay remains the same. Best for a Fairy-Tale Adventure Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Windows Mixed Reality In this adventure game, you are transported to a magical world via an enchanted book. You also accompany a mouse named Quill, who must embark on a journey to save her uncle and the kingdom. Use VR to manipulate the environment, solve puzzles, fight enemies, and explore gorgeous, whimsical zones.  The fairytale presentation, inviting animated art direction, and impressive lighting effects make this an excellent VR game for audiences of all ages.  Best for Interstellar Exploration and Colonization Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Valve Index No Man’s Sky’s development, release, and subsequent improvement is a redemption arc worthy of admiration. Developer Hello Games promised big and missed the mark upon release, delivering a bare-bones, procedurally generated planetary exploration game. Post-launch, No Man’s Sky has received a steady stream of enhancements since 2016, including multiplayer, vehicles, base-building, and cross-platform play. Virtual reality support has also been added, which gives the first-person space adventure a fresh and immersive new perspective. The basic goal of the game is to reach the center of the universe, but that sells the experience short by a long shot. If you skipped No Man’s Sky due to the bad press at launch, rest assured that it has improved radically since then. VR support only sweetens the deal. Best for Music-Based Combat Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality If you combined Beat Saber and Superhot, you'd get something close to Pistol Whip. This musical-combat experience doesn't require you to match a certain rhythm with your gunplay, but rather gives you the freedom to take out enemies however you see fit. Get ready for frenetic action set to a high-energy soundtrack and flashy, colorful graphics. Pistol Whip is a superb title for VR gamers looking to add more rhythm and action to their libraries. You’ll need a sense of rhythm, and a good pair of knees to match the action on screen. It's an excellent choice if you want a workout. Best for Racing Sim Fans Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; Valve Index Project Cars 2 recreates the sensation of real-world driving, from breaking assistance systems to the positioning of your hands on the steering wheel. You can even disable the HUD if you want to go for absolute realism. The visual and environmental effects are what make it stand out from the racing game pack, however. The textures on the more than 180 cars look superb, while the weather and terrain systems add a level of visual sophistication. Consider hooking up pedals and a steering wheel to inch closer to your dream of owning a high-tech automobile. Take a great racing sim, add VR integration, and you have a recipe for success. Project Cars 2 is an excellent game as is, but the virtual reality puts you in the literal driver’s seat, bringing the sim-factor full circle. It’s a must-own for racing fans itching to try out VR. Best for Iconic Survival Horror Platform: Oculus Quest 2 Resident Evil 4 radically changed the series for the better when it launched in 2005. Sure, it may not impress as much nowadays, but the game paved the way for third-person shooters with its tight, responsive shooting, excellent feedback, campy humor, and dynamic set pieces. Set within an eerie Spanish countryside, you must rescue the president’s daughter amidst a bizarre parasitic outbreak that has transformed the local villagers into murderous fiends. Now rereleased for the Oculus Quest 2, Resident Evil 4 has been redesigned in first-person for VR action, giving you a fresh new way to play the game and explore the world. Resident Evil 4 is a landmark game that fans always find a reason to replay, and for good reason: it’s an excellent action-shooter. VR shakes up the formula enough to make the thrills and dread feel fresh again. Series fans should definitely try it, as should anyone looking for a good VR shooter. Best for Gory Survival Horror Platform: PlayStation VR Resident Evil 7 was a much-needed breath of fresh air for the series, with its first-person, horror action that slightly distanced itself from previous games' events. Yet, it remained every bit as relevant to the core franchise, retaining the series' beloved tension, action, and camp. Not only is Resident Evil 7 a great game, it's also a great VR game. Exploring the Louisiana bayou and Baker family home in VR is a unique way to experience the game, which arguably makes it better than playing on a TV or monitor. The game world is chock full of details to investigate and horrors to witness, so the immersive VR viewpoint perfectly complements the horror. If you have PSVR, Resident Evil 7: Biohazard is a must-buy title. Resident Evil 7 is spectacular title, with the VR perfectly complimenting the horror and action on-screen. It’s gory, so the game is not for the squeamish. Still, if you enjoy a bit of body horror alongside your shooting action, Resident Evil 7 is a superb VR game to add to your catalogue. Platform: PlayStation VR2 Village takes place several years after the events of Resident Evil VII, and follows Ethan Winters as he once again sets out to rescue his family. Set within a frosty European valley, you must explore a beast-infested village, undead-haunted castle, and grotesque mechanical laboratory to find and save your kidnapped daughter. The beloved VR interactions from RE7 make their return, giving you a thoroughly immersive and engrossing perspective to enjoy the game If you loved the VR action of Resident Evil 7, Village is the perfect follow-up title. It adds expansive and richly detailed levels, gear updgrades, and greater enemy variety than RE7.   Best for Surreal Visuals Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Valve Index Rez is a wonderfully addictive rail shooter, and Infinite recreates the original game in glorious VR. Rez is the story of a computer virus (Swayzak) on a mission through the network of a system called Project-K to save Eden (the system’s controlling AI) from self-destruction. On your way to Eden, you must overcome whatever obstacles get in your way, whether they be pesky firewalls or other viruses. Rez Infinite features 3D audio, which only enhances the game's much-extolled and rhythmic soundtrack. Rez’s on-rails gameplay, excellent music, and trippy visuals make it an excellent VR game. Some may argue that VR elevates the game, making it the definitive way to play Rez. It even adds an all-new section, Area X, a free-moving stage. Best for Shooter Perfectionists Platforms: Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S Robo Recall is an action-packed gallery shooter designed for use with the Oculus Touch controllers. In the midst of a robot uprising, you must take down enemy combatants using a variety of weapons as a new member of RoboReady’s Recall Department. Defend the city streets and rooftops by clearing infested areas of violent 'bots. Action fans will get a kick out of the scoring system, weapon upgrades, and advanced combat techniques. If you want to survive the game’s increasingly difficult challenges, you must stay focused in the face of the autonomous onslaught. Best for Deep Sea Enthusiasts Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; Valve Index After a passenger spaceship crash lands on an ocean planet called 4546B, your character is left stranded and unreachable due to an ancient alien defense system stationed on the planet. You must craft tools from the raw materials harvested from the ocean, and puzzle out how to disable the alien defenses to call for rescue. As you progress, you’ll uncover more of the planet’s ancient narrative. Subnautica’s vast ocean system is a visual treat, so make sure to spend some time with the nautical wildlife. The vast ocean depths are rife with dazzling and bizarre alien life, as well as massive and hostile leviathan abominations that hunt you down on site. The cartoonish art style belies the horrors lurking in the depths, making it a great VR game to play if crafting, exploration, and spontaneous terror are what you crave. Best for Stylish Shooting Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality Superhot is a time-bending and stylish shooter; when you stop moving, so too does the world around you. To complete a level, you need to defeat all of the bright red enemies barreling towards you, who in turn, are trying to eliminate you. You must use your wits, fists, guns, swords, and any other objects (items like coffee mugs and water bottles are fair game) to stun, and ultimately obliterate, attackers. Keep in mind that a single bullet can eliminate both you and your enemies, so keep tabs on every weapon discharge. The time-shifting nature of Superhot’s gameplay makes it an excellent VR game for action fans, as well as puzzle fans. The combat scenarios are intense, but locking the action behind movement means you have plenty of time to think and strategize your next move. That said, it’s also brutally unforgiving, so be ready to fight, die, and repeat. Best for a Fresh Tetris Experience Platform: PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Oculus Quest Tetris Effect is the modern iteration of the classic game, and one of the best versions ever. The game’s complementary visuals and sound help propel you forward through the games three modes: Journey (standard Tetris rules with themed stages), Effects (Tetris challenges), and Mixed Effects (gameplay variables change sporadically during gameplay). As you progress, you unlock new effects and stages. Tetris is easily one of the most iconic video games of all time. Tetris Effect is essentially a VR reincarnation of this classic, making it a stalwart title in your collection. Best for an Expansive RPG Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality In this RPG, you traverse the lands of Skyrim, interact with NPCs, and equip your character with weapons, armor, and spells. Ultimately, you are tasked with defeating Alduin, the world-eating dragon, but you can also spend your time goofing off, exploring, and completing side quests for townspeople. Even if you have already completed the game on another platform, Skyrim’s VR edition should keep you tied over until Elder Scrolls VI (announced at E3 2018) eventually releases. This one’s for RPG fans. Skyrim is a beefy game, making it an expansive and mechanically rich title you can play in virtual reality. VR games tend to be fairly short, but this is not the case with Skyrim, which is essentially as long as you want it to be depending on how you customize your character and play the game. Best for Complex Clockwork Automation Platforms: PlayStation VR2; Quest 2; Meta Quest Pro With The Last Clockwinder, you are given a very unique set of abilities that are only really possible within the realm of VR. The premise is fairly straightforward: repair a clock tower built directly into a massive tree’s trunk. A pair of special gloves lets you create looping animations of your actions, which you can assign to automatons to perform. With this ability and a platoon of clone machines at your disposal, you must solve puzzles and automate the duties necessary to solve puzzles, complete objectives, and save the clock tower.  VR enthusiasts who love puzzles and complex, clockwork-like mechanical systems will adore this game. It doesn’t take long to understand the systems at play, puzzles are very open ended, and the game even challenges you to optimize your movements to create the most efficient line of automatons possible, giving you solid replay value. Best for Intellectual Puzzle Fans Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality You play as an intelligent, anthropomorphic robot tasked with navigating mazes and obstacles across a series of mysterious environments laden with modern technology. The game looks beautiful, with highly realistic textures and lighting. You can also explore off the beaten path to unravel further backstory. As you progress, you discover secrets about your world and yourself, all of which factor into a momentous decision.  Anyone who digs intellectual puzzle games and philosophical science-fiction tales. Best for Rick and Morty Fans Platform: Oculus Quest, PlayStation VR This wacky game from Justin Roiland, the co-creator of Rick and Morty, pairs with you with the reluctant Trover as you try to rescue your dogs and save the universe. Note that Trover Saves The Universe does not stick to one genre, as it features action, platforming, and puzzle-solving elements. The animated, blob-like graphics complement the gameplay and help make the premise engaging. This gaming smorgasbord of genres isn’t too challenging, making Trover quite accessible. That said, it also has its share of blood and gore, as well as profane language. If you like Rick and Morty, this is the VR game for you. Best for Mini-Game Fun Platforms: HTC Vive; Oculus Quest; Oculus Rift and Rift S; PlayStation VR; PlayStation VR2; Valve Index; Windows Mixed Reality Why not trust Job Simulator's robotic masterminds to ensure your vacation's success? Take a trip to Vacation Island in this VR game, and explore the activities that the beach, forest, and mountain environments offer. No vacation simulator would be complete without character customization and a trove of chatty robot companions. This is essentially a collection of VR mini games that your robotic overlords have disguised as a vacation. The activities include climbing, taking photos, catching fish, and prepping food meals. VR games remain a relatively small segment of the larger gaming world. Check out our other gaming roundups, and be sure to follow PCMag's Steam Curator page. The Best PC Games The Best Nintendo Switch Games The Best Xbox Series X Games The Best PlayStation 5 Games Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! My career has taken me through an eclectic assortment of fields, and connected me with people from all walks of life. This experience includes construction, professional cooking, podcasting, and, of course, writing. I’ve been typing up geeky takes since 2009, ultimately landing a freelancing position at PCMag. This blossomed into a full-time tech analyst position in 2021, where I lend my personal insight on the matters of web hosting, streaming music, mobile apps, and video games.  Read Gabriel's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.