The moment the Coronavirus pandemic hit us, we learned that shootings for movies and TV shows have stopped and that theatres have been shut down. We lamented about the fact that how we were going to live without entertainment and then moved on because we had to earn a living and buy groceries. However, heads of OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime, Sony LIV, VOOT Select etc., there was no option but to meet this sudden shutdown in entertainment head on. Mashable India got in touch with the head of VOOT Select and Viacom 18, Ferzad Palia to understand that while we enjoyed the streaming platform's diverse content, how exactly did they brace for this crisis that's still going on. This is what he had to say, "I don't think anyone in there you know, in a long way, was expecting this from any angle and I think it took everyone by surprise. We've seen many challenges in the past, we've seen economic cycles and so on and so forth over many decades. But something like this, I don't think most of us would have seen in our lifetime. So this has truly been a challenging period. It's been a period of huge learning. I think for the while world, not just for us, and I think every industry has had to sort of adapt, make changes, whether it is in the supply side, distribution side, manufacturing side, and it's been no different for us really as broadcasters, as OTT platforms, as content creators, in that sense looking at newer ways to shoot, newer ways to edit, newer ways for narration for example. So, it has all been unique to say the least." He further added, "While no one was really prepared for this I think what stood our businesses in good stead has been the fact that pretty much all of it works on technology, right? The content, let's say the international content that we're referring to comes in via the internet and then gets QC'd and cleaned up and so on and so forth and that entire process of mastering gets onto it. Instead of that being done in a studio, a lot of it was done in somebody's house remotely and I think technology has really saved all of us in that sense. Whether it is on editing of shows which were already shot or international shows which have been coming in. I think in some sense we were lucky. Lucky would be a harsh word to use at this point of time with something as crazy as the coronavirus flying around but from a timing, from a launch perspective, we launched on March 2 and by March 16 or 17, all of us were operating remotely and not going into the office. So that early into the life of a sort of tech product combined with a content product is a really challenging one but we have a fantastically well experienced phenomenal team who were able to pull all of it off." You can watch the rest of the interview with Ferzad Palia here: It is pretty clear that India as a country has fudged up their fight against the Coronavirus. That's why every film or TV show that is trying to start filming is being shut down due to a fresh bout of cases. Now, while OTT platforms might have survived due to the content that was present before sh*t hit the fan royally, it is still unclear how things are going to look like when its current roster is going to come to an end.