Published By:  Shrishti Negi Trending Desk Last Updated: June 30, 2023, 10:40 IST New Delhi, India Bigg Boss OTT 2 is streaming on JioCinema.(Credit:voot/Instagram) Bigg Boss OTT 2 is heating up with the latest confrontation between Pooja Bhatt and Abhishek Malhan. The popular reality show took an intense turn as Pooja directly addressed Abhishek as a ‘badtameez.’ In a teaser released by Voot on Instagram, viewers got a glimpse of the drama that unfolded between the two contestants. The teaser clip captures the tense atmosphere as Pooja requests a one-on-one conversation with Abhishek saying, “Will you listen to me individually?”. Abhishek responds affirmatively with a “100%.” Pooja then asserts, “I will not sit here and be friends with someone who is badtameez or rude to me,” leaving no room for ambiguity regarding her zero tolerance for disrespectful behaviour. In his defence, Abhishek claims, “I say whatever comes to my mind. I don’t get it when someone says that I do not respect women.” Pooja, unfazed by his explanation, retorts, “I do not have anything to say after this. I am not here to become popular. I am not a people pleaser.”   A post shared by Voot (@voot)  This tense exchange between Pooja and Abhishek is not the only instance of friction between them. Another teaser shared by Voot showed Pooja’s reaction to Abhishek suggesting the need for garden cleaning. Pooja dismisses his suggestion and advises him to focus on his grooming instead.   A post shared by Voot (@voot)  Pooja Bhatt, known for her candid nature, has been an interesting addition to the Bigg Boss OTT 2 house. In a previous episode, she nominated Aaliya Siddiqui for eviction. Pooja justified her choice by urging Aaliya to stop playing the victim card and highlighting the resilience of women who move on from broken marriages. Aaliya was eventually eliminated from the show. Rule Break alert! ⚠️ Direct nominations for Abhishek, Akanksha, and Jiya. 😲Watch the episode of #BiggBossOTT2 at 9pm tonight. Streaming free on #JioCinema.#BBOTT2 #BBOTT2onJioCinema @beingsalmankhan@FukraInsaan @akanksha800 @heyshankar_ pic.twitter.com/zdS57IgVpM — JioCinema (@JioCinema) June 28, 2023 The latest episode of Bigg Boss OTT 2 ended on a dramatic note with Bigg Boss introducing a crucial rule that had been violated. Contestants Akanksha Puri, Abhishek Malhan (aka Fukra Insaan), and Jiya Shankar were caught discussing about nominations, leading the show makers to nominate them.