Art & Entertainment 
              According to an announcement by streaming platform Voot, season 2 of 'Brochara' and season 3 of 'Baked' will hit the platform on April 18 and April 25 respectively. 
             Streaming platform Voot announced on April 12 that the new seasons of youth-based shows ‘Brochara’ and ‘Baked’ will premiere in April itself.  The streamer is adding two of these light-hearted shows to its library. ‘Brochara’ Season 2 produced by Dice Media Productions will release on April 18. Meanwhile, season 3 of ‘Baked- Teen Tigada, Sab Bigada’ will stream from April 25.  A post shared by Voot (@voot) Directed by Simarpreet Singh, 'Brochara' is a slice-of-life show which focuses on the lives of four male friends. In season two, the fan-favourite quartet will return to the screen as they navigate life, ambitions and relationships together with each others' unhindered support.  The five-episodic series is headlined by Dhruv Sehgal, Amey Wagh, Varun Tewari, and Sayandeep Sengupta. Sehgal, best known for his work in 'Little Things', said he had a great time working on 'Brochara'. “It’s always fun to shoot with the boys. By portraying bromance on-screen, we’ve subconsciously taken that bond off-screen too. The rapport that the four of us share behind the scenes is unbeatable and I look forward to working with them in the future as well," the actor said in a statement.  'Baked - Teen Tidaga, Sab Bigada', helmed by Vishwajoy Mukherjee, focuses on the misadventures of three college-going flatmates. A post shared by Voot (@voot) As per the makers, the upcoming season of 'Baked' will see the three friends reunite after seven years for a vacation in the hills, to take a break from their mundane lives.  The show features actors Pranay Manchanda, Shantanu Anam, Manik Papneja and Kriti Vij in lead roles.  Manchanda said he feels elated about the response to the previous two seasons of 'Baked' and is looking forward to see the audience reaction to the third part. "From where we started, none of us expected 'Baked' to become this big, which it has become now, all thanks to our viewers. Sharing the screen space with Shantanu, Manik, Kriti and the entire cast has been a great experience! I have the time of my life every time I shoot with them, and it rightly transpires on screen," the actor said. [With Inputs From PTI] 
Unsung Heroes Of India's Freedom Struggle
 
“An Artist has no Caste": Chinki Sinha in conversation with Madhubani artist Shanti Devi
 
Freedom Of Fantasy | Chinki Sinha In Conversation With Activist And Author Anand Teltumbde
 
Kohli’s T20 journey: Debut Se Domination Tak
 
In Photos: Raksha Bandhan Celebrated Across India
 
Day In Pics: August 19, 2024
 
Napoli 0-3 Hellas Verona, Serie A: Antonio Conte’s Men Falter As Dailon Livramento, Daniel Mosquera Shine On Debut - In Pics
 
Real Madrid 1-1 Mallorca, La Liga: Kylian Mbappe's Debut Ends In Draw,  Rodrygo Finds Net - In Pics
 
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
      
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.
     