
Jump to navigation
 Please turn on Javascript for added functionality Every year, CDAE students and faculty continue to implement transformative research, engaged teaching and inclusive outreach activities for building sustainable communities. Read how we're making our mark in our  Spring 2024 Newsletter Read about PCOM student, Marcus Aloisi,  and the project that brought him to the State Capital CID student shares her summer research experience helping Vermont communities. Read more here  At the world’s largest climate talks, CDAE researcher Dr. Asim Zia will target agricultural emissions and protections for people living on river deltas. Read More... Read about the history of the CDAE St. Lucia Travel Course CDAE Values Student Input - over 120 students gathered for the first post-pandemic Student Town Meeting Day since 2019 Read more >> Skyler Nash's (Community and International Development '21) is already at work, balancing studies with two jobs: public policy and research analyst in the City of Burlington Racial Equity Inclusion & Belonging Department and director of Next Generation Justice. Over the last eight months, Nash also managed the successful Vermont Senate campaign of Kesha Ram, the first woman of color elected to the chamber.... Read about how Matt Buder Shapiro '12 launched a fast-growing Cleveland-based medical tech startup  Read how CDAE alum Eric Grunfeld uses UVM's Mentor Network to help launch his startup For 500 years, many Indigenous Bolivians sustained their history through oral storytelling, paving the way for one to make history Read about CDAE Lecturer Ben Dangl's latest book Addressing Climate Change through Parenting, Storytelling and Behavior at the UN: CDAE Assistant Prof. Trisha Shrum Hosts Panel at United Nations Read about Shrum's work with the UN Each year, CDAE 171 Community and International Economic Transformation brings students into the, rewarding, difficult, and often surprising work of applied community development in Peru. Read More... Ryan G. Kriger, J.D., Lecturer in CDAE, is the 2023 winner of the Outstanding Part-Time Faculty Teaching Award. Read his story here... CDAE student sits down with Vermont Attorney General to discuss leadership and as part of CDAE course. Read more here  The Department of Community Development and Applied Economics (CDAE) offers hands-on learning and experiences both in and out of the classroom that empower our graduates to make impactful contributions to their communities. These theories, skills, and contexts are explored in depth and reinforced in students’ advanced coursework within their particular major. Our undergraduate majors include Community Centered Design, Community Entrepreneurship, Community & International Development, and Public Communication. Declare a major in CDAE Explore courses in CDAE Meet our Faculty in CDAE We are transdisciplinary. Our department is unique in that we draw from many different fields including applied economics, communication, sociology, documentary film, social entrepreneurship, journalism, community-centered design, and sustainable development. Vision: Growing resilient and sustainable communities through transdisciplinary teaching, research, and outreach.  Our mission is to prepare students to contribute to society, conduct research, and engage in service for the development of resilient, inclusive, and just communities in an era of unprecedented change. Students learn how to create and implement transdisciplinary solutions through applied learning and community engagement for the public good. We carry out this mission with the following scholarly activities:  CDAE faculty members are experts in their field, experienced in their practice, and prolific in their contributions to academic literature.  They engage students with applied learning, relevant worldly problem-solving, and theory to back it all up.  Social Enterprise Day is an opportunity for students from across campus—and especially CDAE—to connect with professionals who use business as a force for good. This event was an extension of the foundation learning and work done in CDAE 2660.  Our department integrates action with learning.  We house courses in media literacy, news writing, and we underwrite UVM's student-run free-form radio station, WRUV FM Burlington.  Tate Kamish, above, Public Communication minor DJs at the station adding skills to her experience in media and communication.