It has been long overdue, but one of the all-time great Yellow Jackets is going to have his number retired.  It was announced today that Georgia Tech Baseball legend Mark Teixeira will have his No. 24 jersey retired which means current Yellow Jackets outfielder Stephen Reid will be the last person to wear that number at Tech.  Georgia Tech head coach Danny Hall coached Teixeira and had this to say about Teixeira having his number retired (Courtesy of Georgia Tech PR):  To be able to retire Mark Teixeira’s number is one of my great honors as a head coach,” head coach Danny Hall said. “Mark has meant so much to this program, and to Georgia Tech, in his time as both a player and as an alum. His accomplishments on the field speak for themselves as to how great a player he was on The Flats and in the Major Leagues. He is undoubtedly deserving of this prestigious honor and I’m proud to have been his coach.”  Teixeira batted .409 during his three-year career while slugging 36 home runs and 165 RBI. He ranks fourth in school history in career batting average (.409) and second in slugging percentage (.712), and holds the school record for most runs scored in a season with 104. As a sophomore in 2000, Teixeira batted .427 with 18 home runs and 80 RBI, posting the seventh-best batting average for a single season in school history. That performance helped Georgia Tech win the 2000 ACC regular season and tournament championships as well as the NCAA Atlanta Regional title (Courtesy of Georgia Tech PR).  Here is what Athletic Director J Batt had to say about Teixeira having his number retired (Courtesy of Georgia Tech PR):   “It’s with great excitement and pride that we announce the retirement of Mark Teixeira’s No. 23 from Georgia Tech baseball,” director of athletics J Batt said. “Mark is one of the greatest players to ever wear the White and Gold on the baseball diamond, and his accomplishments in the Major Leagues are a huge point of pride for Yellow Jackets everywhere. In the classroom, he was an Academic All-American who came back to the Institute following his MLB career to earn his degree in business administration. And, most importantly, he and his wife, Leigh, have been champions away from the field with their selfless contributions to Georgia Tech and so many communities across America. It is our privilege and honor to recognize Mark as one of the greatest student-athletes in Tech history.”  media for the latest on Georgia Tech Athletics! This article first appeared on Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets on SI and was syndicated with permission. More must-reads: Get the latest news and rumors, customized to your favorite sports and teams. Emailed daily. Always free!