Published By:  Ritayan Basu Trending Desk Last Updated: September 29, 2023, 13:29 IST Barcelona, Spain Barcelona vs Sevilla Live Streaming: How to Watch Barcelona vs Sevilla La Liga Match on TV And Online Barcelona will resume their La Liga defence against Sevilla in their upcoming fixture. The Catalan side recently dropped some points after conceding a draw in their previous match. They will be looking to bounce back from the drawback and get to the top of the table once again. September 30 will see the two teams take on each other at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium. Sevilla didn’t quite have the league start they were hoping for this season. The team is currently in the 12th position, having lost three of their six games. The multiple-time Europa-league champions will be looking to make a comeback in their next fixture, starting with the Blaugranas. Barcelona’s duel with Mallorca saw them concede a 2-2 draw at full time. It was Mallorca’s Vedat Muriqi who scored the opening goal of the game in the eighth minute. Raphina equalized for Barcelona towards the end of the second half before Mallorca doubled their lead in added time. In the second half, Barcelona’s Fermin Lopez scored Barcelona’s second goal to rescue a point for his team. India at Asian Games: FULL COVERAGE | MEDAL TALLY | RESULTS | SCHEDULE Sevilla were brilliant in their second game as they racked up five goals against Almeria. It would be interesting to see if they can continue this scoring momentum against Barcelona. What date La Liga match between Barcelona and Sevilla will be played? The La Liga match between Barcelona and Sevilla will be played on September 30, Saturday. Where will the La Liga match Barcelona vs Sevilla be played? The La Liga match between Barcelona and Sevilla will be played at the Lluis Companys Olympic Stadium. What time will the La Liga match between Barcelona and Sevilla begin? The La Liga match between Barcelona and Sevilla will start at 12:30 AM IST on September 30, Saturday. Which TV channels will broadcast Barcelona vs Sevilla La Liga match? Barcelona vs Sevilla match will be televised on the Sports18 Network in India. How do I watch Barcelona vs Sevilla La Liga match live streaming? Barcelona vs Sevilla match will be streamed live on the Voot and JioCinema app and website. What are the Probable XIs of Barcelona and Sevilla For the La Liga game? Barcelona Probable XI: Marc Andre Ter Stegen, Joao Cancelo, Ronald Araujo, Jules Kounde, Alejandro Balde, Ilkay Gundogan, Oriol Romeu, Gavi, Raphinha, Robert Lewandowski, Joao Felix Sevilla Probable XI: Orjan Nyland, Jesus Navas, Loic Bade, Sergio Ramos, Adria Pedrosa, Djibril Sow, Ivan Rakitic, Suso, Erik Lamela, Dodi Lukebakio, Youssef En-Nesyri