Wakefit Double Bed Mattress comes with 7 zone latex layer, which enables greater air circulation and relieves pressure from 7 zones for enhanced body support. It is also equipped with the Next-Gen Memory Foam, which takes the shape of your spine and keeps it aligned for healthy sleep.  Sleepyhead Laxe 100% Natural Pincore Latex Mattress is famous for its breathable pin core structure, which allows constant ventilation and keeps you cool even in warm climes. Also, its high resilience helps to distribute the body weight evenly, helping your body get proper support.  SleepX Ortho Plus Quitted 6 Memory Foam Mattress is a good option for those who need optimal spinal support. It gives your spine and shoulder the much-required comfort, offering you a relaxed sleep. What makes SleepyCat Ultima 4 Degree Cooler 3-Layered Cooltec mattress rank among the best in its precise contoured support with the DeepTouch Pressure technology with support waves which will allow your body parts to get optimum support. Besides, the CoolTEC fabric keeps you 4 degrees cooler than your body temperature, which will help you get a good sleep. You can check out our comprehensive Mattress buying guide for detailed information - Mattress Buying Guide Serial No. Brand Products 1 WakeFit Wakefit Smart Grid Mattress, Mattress Double Bed, XpertGRID Ultra Double Bed Wakefit Latex Mattress, Mattress Double Bed, Natural Latex Mattress with Memory Foam 2 Sleepyhead Sleepyhead Flip - Dual-Sided High-Density Foam Mattress Sleepyhead Laxe - 100% Natural Pincore Latex Mattress 3 SleepX SleepX Ortho Plus Quilted 6 Inch King Bed Size Memory Foam Mattress SleepX Dual Plus 6 Inch Single Bed Size, Memory Foam Mattress - Medium Soft and Hard 4 Sleepycat SleepyCat Ultima 4 Degree Cooler 3- Layered Cooltedc Medium Soft 8-inch Memory Foa, Mattress SleepyCat 8-inch Orthopedic Firm Latex Memory Foam Hybrid Mattress Wakefit Smart Grid Mattress comes with XpertGRID technology, which has 3500+ air flow channels that ensure good airflow and regulate the body temperature. The intelligently designed grid material also helps you to react to your body pressure to give you a balance of medium firmness and comfort for a good and relaxed sleep.  Specifications Price - Rs. 20,256.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - Queen Size Dimension - 78x60x8 inches Firmness - Plush  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.6 Ratings - 1,610 Features The hypoallergenic mattress helps to avoid bed bugs  Pure high-density foam prevents any sagging and retains the mattress shape even after several years of usage.  Pros Cons Cooling feature Heats a bit Zero disturbance to a partner Easy to handle Latex Mattress Double Bed with Memory Foam is one of the best mattresses offered by Wakefit. It comes with a soft, breathable fabric that ensures good air circulation and body heat dissipation. This mattress is also tailored to take the shape of your body, which can be helpful for you.  Specifications Price - Rs. 19,354.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - King Size Dimension - 78x72x8 inches Firmness - Medium Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.5  Ratings - 2,187 Features The mattress is hypoallergenic and resistant to bed bugs, making it a good option for people with sensitive skin and allergies.  It has a removable cover, motion isolation, and cooling feature, which can help you get a good sleep.  Pros Cons Value for money product It leaves an odd smell Washable zip cover Sleepyhead Flip Dual-Sided High-Density Foam Mattress is an affordable option. It is built using high-density foam, which provides excellent support and comfort.  Specifications Price - Rs. 6,999.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - Single Size Dimension - 72x36x5 inches Firmness - Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.5  Ratings - 9,987 Features 100 days night trials Super simple unboxing Dual side comfort(Firm & Soft feel) Pros Cons The firm side helps to achieve maximum support Not a good option for children The soft side provides a lot of comforts, which makes you feel like a cocoon. Value for money product  Sleepyhead Laxe 100% Natural Pincore Latex Mattress has its top layer made with rubber tree sap, ensuring your mattress stays good for a long time. It is also equipped with washable and breathable fabric, which helps in constant ventilation keeping your mattress cool and helping you get a good sleep. Specifications Price - Rs. 11,999.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - Single Size Dimension - 78x36x6 inches Firmness - Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.3  Ratings - 555 Features It is equipped with a washable and breathable zipper cover which allows passage of air to dry quickly.  Uniform pressure distribution and eco-friendly  Naturally durable   Pros Cons 100% natural latex is used, which ensures durability and resilient NA  Easy to handle and provides the support and comfort you require to have a good sleep Affordable product SleepX Ortho Plus Quilled 6 Inch King Bed Size Memory Foam Mattress is a mixture of Orthopedic technology and luxury, which makes it a great option. It has high resilience foam for pressure point ease and soft knitted fabric for a plush surface feel. This gives you tremendous support and comfort, which ultimately helps you achieve good sleep. Specifications Price - Rs. 12,445.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - King Bed Size Dimension - 72x70x6 inches Firmness - Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.3  Ratings - 6,085 Features It has air mesh fabric which ensures fresh air circulation  Equipped with high-density rigid foam, which offers excellent support.   It comes with SleepX memory foam mattress, which allows you a relaxed sleep. Pros Cons 10-year warranty and virtual demo available on the internet to study the product and make your decision The price is a little high It has next-gen memory foam, which offers snug comfort spinal Ideal option for people who need optimal spinal support SleepX Dual Plus 6 Inch Single Bed Size Memory Foam Mattress is a perfect option for all king sleepers. It has a rigid feel on one side and a medium soft feel on the other when you flip the mattress over. The hard size is considered a good option who needs back support. The medium-soft size provides a comfortable and plush surface while sleeping, which can be good for you.  Specifications Price - Rs. 8,272.00 Construction type - Foam  Size - Single Size Dimension - 78x36x6 inches Firmness - Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.2  Ratings - 73 Features The mattress is equipped with Next-Gen Memory Foam Mattress, which offers back superior support. The Dual Plus mattress also has Neem Fresche technology which helps you to get long-lasting hygiene and freshness every time you go to sleep.   It has breathable air mesh fabric on both sides, ensuring proper air circulation.   Pros Cons It justifies the price tag  It offers little comfort per the price Perfect for people suffering from back pain and who want to heal rapidly It is available in all three sizes: single, double and king size, which can be good for you Ultima 4 Degree Cooler 3-Layered Cooltech Medium Soft 8-inch Memory Foam Mattress is one of the best options offered by SleepyCat. It comes with a 100-night free trial, allowing you to determine whether it's a good option easily. Also, the 2-inch Open Cell Memory Foam top layer helps you to get enough support and comfort to get a relaxed sleep.  Specifications Price - Rs. 23,399.10 Construction type - Open Cell Memory Foam Size - King  Dimension - 78x72x8 inches Firmness - Medium Plush Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.6  Ratings - 334 Features It has a CoolTech fabric Ezie Zipper cover, ensuring durability and a long-lasting mattress. Comes with two support layers, i.e. middle (4/6 high-density foam ) and bottom(2-inch high-density foam)  Bird Eye Knitted side walls which improved durability and an anti-skid base Pros Cons India's first mattress with the CoolTec Fabric and DeepTouch Pressure technology NA Perfect for back and side sleepers Zero partner disturbance  SleepyCat 8-inch Orthopedic Firm Latex Memory Foam Hybrid Mattress comes with a 5-zone base for orthopaedic support, allowing you to get good sleep. It also offers responsiveness and does not sink as much as other mattresses, which can be good for you. Besides, the mattress's Bamboo fibre fabric helps to get rid of bacteria and adds moisture-wicking properties.  Specifications Price - Rs. 20,699.00 Construction type - Latex Foam  Size - King Size Dimension - 78x72x8 inches Firmness - Firm  Age range - Adult Reviews - 4.5 Ratings - 513 Features The top layer of the mattress help with cooling, which ensures good sleep. It has an extremely breathable and luxurious feel while being machine washable thanks to its Smart Zipper Cover.     Pros Cons 100-night free trial The white covering on the top gets dirty quickly Perfect for people having back pain Memory foam keeps things comfortable, breathable and durable There are many different types of mattresses available in the Indian market, which have their benefits. The comfort and support balance vary across every kind of mattress. Here are some of the mattresses you can choose for your usage in India-  Memory Foam Mattress - A memory foam mattress bends around the pressure you exert. Despite the higher density, it has a lower reaction time, allowing you to get a hugging experience while sleeping. This mattress is ideal for people with average or healthy body weight. Latex Foam Mattress - This is the most eco-friendly mattress choice. It is made using solidified latex and frothed into a mattress. You can find this mattress in many Indian houses because its natural sourcing makes it long-lasting. Also, it is hypoallergenic and repels dust, miles, mould and other external factors, which can be good for your health.  Orthopaedic Mattress - This mattress is a perfect option for people who need superior comfort and support. It is usually recommended for people with chronic back pain, shoulder pain and other medical conditions.  Pocket Spring Mattress - This mattress is similar to an orthopaedic mattress and can offer better support and absorb pressure exerted on it when it's maximum. If you have someone from whom you are worried about their motion disturbance and have vulnerable parts that need a medical mattress, it can be a good option.  There are different types of mattresses based on your needs or medical conditions. If you do not know anything about it and want to learn about them, you can check out the list below-  Back pain - If you suffer from significant back pain issues, an Orthopaedic mattress is for you. This mattress is usually firmer in any configuration, offering unparalleled support for the entire body. However, it would be best if you waited to buy it until your doctor prescribes it.  Old Age - Memory foam mattresses are good options for old age people. Besides, it can also offer you an embodiment of a plush sleeping experience.  Comfort - If you are looking for a mattress that can provide high-level comfort, you can check out hybrid mattresses. This mattress uses various layers with different densities and thicknesses. These layers work together to provide you with high comfort and balance. Back Support - Latex foam mattresses are considered the best option if you want enormous back support. As the density of latex foam is variable, it can be changed to be softer, bouncier and firmer to get as much help as you want.  There are many ways to increase your mattress's lifespan. Here are some of the common and easy ones-  Use Mattress cover - The best thing you can do to increase the lifespan of your mattress is to cover it with a mattress cover. The cover can be made from various natural and artificial fibres. These covers also prevent the mattress from dust and moulds, which can be good for you. Often cleaning - A human body produces many dead cells and dust, which must be cleaned thoroughly. The dust will accumulate if it's not done, making the mattress rigid.  Avoid bed bugs - Take care of your mattress by preventing the bed bugs from entering inside your mattress. If they enter the bed, it is sure that they will destroy the mattress.  There are sure signs when you need a new mattress, such as your mattress sagging, making a lot of noise, smelling bad, not providing much comfort and aggravating your allergies.  Most mattresses should last between 7 - 10 years. However, your mattress's lifespan depends on various factors, such as the initially built quality of material, the material used and how you take care of it.  There are certain things which you should look for in a mattress: Mattress depth Comfort Spinal Support Fabric Hypoallergic qualities or natural materials Mattresses allow people to get comfortable and healthy sleep. If you are still looking for some of the best mattresses that can be a good purchase, check out this article to get the list of the best mattresses from some top brands.  To contact the Express Deals team, please drop an email to - expressdeal@newindianexpress.comWe will reach out to you in the next 48 business hours. Disclaimer: At Express Deals, we work with subject matter experts to bring you the latest in product innovations and Indian eCommerce trends. Express Deals participates in various affiliate programs, which means we may earn revenue on purchases made through the links to retailer sites. Please note that prices mentioned on the pages can vary based on retailer promotions on any given day. Also, do note that we will not be liable for any claim under applicable laws, including but not limited to the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, with respect to the featured products since they aren't directly sold by us. Follow Us © 2024 The New Indian Express Powered by Quintype