— WATD 95.9 News & Talk Radio, South Shore Massachusetts  by Lisa Azizian | Jul 17, 2023 | Pet of the Week Walden and Siri - Yorkies Inc. ***PUPDATE: Walden and Siri have been adopted!! Say hello to Walden and Siri! Walden came into rescue with our friends at Yorkies Inc. with a severe liver issue that was repaired immediately and in true Yorkie fashion he survived! During his recovery, Siri came to Yorkies Inc. as a breeder release, too small to show or breed. After recovering from a broken ulna she has thrived and is now a healthy 4lbs! She’s sweet and playful. And as luck would have it Yorkies Inc. found out she’s also a half-sister to Walden!  During Walden’s recovery, he also suffered a broken ulna, which set him back from being able to be placed for adoption. While recovering, further testing found that he has a small irreparable liver shunt. With all this recovery time here together these two have bonded and are really an adorable pair! Though the team has received many, many applications to adopt one or the other they feel these two really need to stay together. Walden is now 1.5 years old and weighs 5.6 lbs. and while he has no signs of his shunt he does require a low-protein diet and a supplement each day. Siri is 1.7 years old and weighs 4 lbs. Both are sweet, playful, and fun; they love their toys and have typical Yorkie energy! They are pee-pad trained but would need to be trained for outside. They would do fine with another same size dog or two. Walden and Siri will not be placed with bigger dogs or young children for their safety. They are both up to date on vaccines, heartworm and Lyme negative, microchipped, and spayed/neutered. For more information on this dynamic duo visit https://www.yorkiesinc.com/ and click HERE for the adoption application! Visit our Pet of the Week page to see all of our past adoption highlights. You may find just the right perfect friend to add to your family! 
©2024 WATD FM All Rights Reserved   |   Website by Nisse Designs Public File FM/AM - EEO