

Walden Media, LLC






General information

Type
Film FinancingPublishing Company


Industry
Film


Founded
2000


Headquarters
Los Angeles, California


Founder(s)
Michael FlahertyCary Granat


Key people
Frank Smith(President & CEO)Naia Cucukov(EVP, Development & Production)


Parent
Anschutz Entertainment Group


Website
walden.com


Source

Walden Media, LLC or Walden Media is an American children's film investor and publishing company best known as the producers of The Chronicles of Narnia series. Its films are based on notable classic or award-winning children's literature, compelling biographies or historical events, documentaries and some original screenplays.
 The corporate headquarters of Walden Media are located in Los Angeles, California, and the Education, Outreach, Interactive and Publishing office is in Boston, Massachusetts. Although not owned by The Walt Disney Company, Walden Media had a brief movie agreement with Disney from 2003 until 2008.
 Walden Media was founded in 2000 by Michael Flaherty and Cary Granat. Granat was president of Miramax's Dimension Films division, and Flaherty came from the world of education. Flaherty was called an “entrepreneur in education” by The Boston Globe for his work with innovative programs meant to help underprivileged students gain access to quality education. The two were housemates at Tufts University before following different paths and then reuniting to form Walden Media as a movie, television, publishing and Internet enterprise whose goal is to teach and entertain kids. The company is owned by the Christian conservative Philip Anschutz, who has said he expects their movies "to be entertaining, but also to be life affirming and to carry a moral message."
 The company's notable releases include Holes in 2003, Because of Winn-Dixie for Twentieth Century Fox in 2005, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe in 2005 by Walt Disney Pictures, How to Eat Fried Worms and Charlotte's Web in 2006, Bridge to Terabithia, in 2007, The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian released by Disney and Walden Media in 2008, and their latest film The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader by Fox and Walden Media in 2010. All of these films are adaptations of popular children's books.
 On August 8, 2006, Walden Media announced a joint venture with 20th Century Fox called FoxWalden. Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium and The Seeker: The Dark Is Rising were the first films released under the venture. Previously announced films at other studios will remain in place.
 On August 1, 2013, the Anschutz Film Group, which includes Walden Media and Bristol Bay Productions, announced that it will cease to exist as a production company and will focus on co-financing films made by third-parties.
 The company is named after Walden Pond in Concord, Massachusetts. Its logo is a rock skipping across a pond.
