Victor Wembanyama's 1st 24 hours in San Antonio includes a rally at the iconic River Walk and dinner with Spurs legends. Victor Wembanyama (Metropolitans 92) is the No. 1 overall pick in the 2023 NBA Draft. Here's the complete and updated run of picks from 1-58. Relive the best moments from the 2023 NBA Draft! Hope and tears. Surprises and trades. Risers and fallers. The 2023 NBA Draft had a little bit of everything. From picking out the perfect suit to the bus ride to Barclays Center, take an exclusive look as draftees prep for the big night. Victor Wembanyama's 1st 24 hours in San Antonio includes a rally at the iconic River Walk and dinner with Spurs legends. The high-level developmental league had 4 players selected in the 2023 NBA Draft.  Gradey Dick, the No. 13 overall pick, stole the show with his red, sequin suit jacket at the 2023 NBA Draft.  The NBA family takes to social media to congratulate the next generation of NBA stars. The first round on ESPN and ABC averages nearly 5 million viewers with a peak just beyond 6 million.  The official list of trades and transactions that take place during the 2023 summer offseason. The San Antonio Spurs have officially introduced their No. 1 pick Victor Wembanyama to the city and their fans, now the pivot is what's next.  Victor Wembanyama has arrived, and neither he nor the Spurs can wait to see the hype meet the hardwood. Bilal Coulibaly and Rayan Rupert are two examples of the basketball renaissance in France that goes beyond just Victor Wembanyama. Check out the top moments, reactions and one-liners from the 2023 NBA Draft. What to expect from Wembanyama with Spurs Wembanyama: 'Been waiting for this for so long' Taylor Rooks x Victor Wembanyama How Brandon Miller fits alongside LaMelo Ball Taylor Rooks X Brandon Miller Why Scoot Henderson was the pick at No. 3 Taylor Rooks x Scoot Henderson 2023 NBA Draft Instant Analysis: Amen Thompson Taylor Rooks x Amen Thompson 2023 NBA Draft Instant Analysis: Ausar Thompson Taylor Rooks x Ausar Thompson Why Magic opted for Anthony Black at No. 6 Taylor Rooks x Anthony Black What reported Coulibaly trade could mean for Wizards Taylor Rooks x Bilal Coulibaly What to expect if Walker is headed to Indiana Taylor Rooks x Jarace Walker Why Hendricks was 1st UCF player to be drafted Taylor Rooks x Taylor Hendricks What made Thunder trade up for Cason Wallace? Atlanta Hawks Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets Charlotte Hornets Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Miami Heat Milwaukee Bucks New York Knicks Orlando Magic Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Washington Wizards Dallas Mavericks Denver Nuggets Golden State Warriors Houston Rockets LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Memphis Grizzlies Minnesota Timberwolves New Orleans Pelicans Oklahoma City Thunder Phoenix Suns Portland Trail Blazers Sacramento Kings San Antonio Spurs Utah Jazz Atlanta Hawks Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets Charlotte Hornets Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Dallas Mavericks Denver Nuggets Detroit Pistons Golden State Warriors Houston Rockets Indiana Pacers LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Memphis Grizzlies Miami Heat Milwaukee Bucks Minnesota Timberwolves New Orleans Pelicans New York Knicks Oklahoma City Thunder Orlando Magic Philadelphia 76ers Phoenix Suns Portland Trail Blazers Sacramento Kings San Antonio Spurs Toronto Raptors Utah Jazz Washington Wizards Taylor Rooks x Victor Wembanyama Taylor Rooks X Brandon Miller Taylor Rooks x Scoot Henderson Taylor Rooks x Amen Thompson Taylor Rooks x Ausar Thompson Taylor Rooks x Anthony Black Taylor Rooks x Bilal Coulibaly Taylor Rooks x Jarace Walker Taylor Rooks x Taylor Hendricks Taylor Rooks x Cason Wallace Taylor Rooks x Jett Howard Taylor Rooks x Dereck Lively II Taylor Rooks x Gradey Dick Taylor Rooks x Jordan Hawkins Taylor Rooks x Kobe Bufkin Taylor Rooks x Keyonte George