MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS The group has represented clients in the medical device, tobacco and pharmaceutical industries, among others, in pretrial litigation and as trial and appellate counsel.   September 07, 2023 at 02:40 PM  4 minute read Law Firm Hiring Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer has brought on a six-lawyer trial team in its product liability litigation practice from Shook, Hardy & Bacon, as demand for litigation matters continues to soar across Big Law. Frank Cruz-Alvarez, Brian Jackson, Christopher Nease, David Thorne and Michael Walden joined the firm as partners and Rachel Forman joined as of counsel, the firm said Thursday. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Jimmy Hoover By Amanda Bronstad By Aleeza Furman By Aleeza Furman 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The National Law Journal honors attorneys & judges who've made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in the D.C. area. The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join National Law Journal now! Already have an account? Sign In Breaking news and trends for law firm and legal departments about the evolving federal regulations in a volatile political climate. The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.