Color Scheme Subscriber Actions Staff Options Connect With Us Support Local Journalism SEATTLE – Kraken fans in Eastern Washington will have a greater chance to watch the team’s games after an expanded carriage deal  announced Thursday between Root Sports NW and Spectrum TV, according to a source close to the negotiations. Spectrum, owned by the Charter Communications cable conglomerate, had been the only Root Sports carrier in the state to balk at paying an additional fee to carry the Kraken games when the team launched in October 2021. But negotiations between Spectrum and Root have been ongoing throughout the team’s improved 2022-23 season as general interest in the Kraken picked up. That interest has yet to translate to strong Kraken TV ratings on Root, although the regional sports network and the team have hoped to generate increased fan interest across greater parts of the state. Spectrum has a customer base in the six-figure range in parts of Washington, Oregon and Idaho, and though it carried Mariners broadcasts on Root Sports, alternative programming would come on whenever the Kraken played. The deal had a soft launch in several markets in recent weeks but becomes official as of Thursday, meaning viewers in Kennewick, Yakima, Wenatchee, Walla Walla and other Spectrum markets can watch that night’s game between the Kraken and Philadelphia Flyers. One near-term glitch in the deal still being worked on, according to the source, is Spectrum has yet to set up an alternative channel for nights when the Kraken and Portland Trail Blazers play games at the same time. For now, when both have competing games, Spectrum will continue showing viewers the NBA team over the Kraken. Medford, Oregon, is still Spectrum’s biggest market, and it has significant Oregon customer bases in Lincoln, Tillamook and Roseburg. “A lot of cable companies don’t want to take programming away from people that’s already being offered,” the source said. “So, the Trail Blazers games were already being shown, and they’ll keep showing them but also add the Kraken programming where there isn’t a conflict until they get that second channel.” The alternative channel could be set up in time for the upcoming Mariners season, which would enable viewers to see the final regular-season Kraken games and any additional playoff matchups carried by Root. Local journalism is essential. Give directly to The Spokesman-Review's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below. Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible, but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds.  Get the day’s top sports headlines and breaking news delivered to your inbox by subscribing here. Here’s the fact none of us want to face: We will probably need long-term care at some point in our lives. Follow Us Support Local Journalism Subscribe Help User 
Advertising
 More Contact Us © Copyright 2024, The Spokesman-Review | Community Guidelines | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy