 Monte Willis, Walla Walla City Council Position 4 candidate Age: 53 Residence: Walla Walla Family: Wife Sue, daughter Emeline, father James, and mother Dorothy Occupation: Attorney Education: Bachelor of Arts in business administration from Washington State University in 1992 with a double major in accounting and business law, including course work in fund accounting. Doctor of Law from Cornell Law School in 1995. Community involvement: Prior board membership: Goodwill; Walla Walla Downtown Foundation; and Little Theatre of Walla Walla. Prior member of Tour of Walla Walla organizing committee. Previous elected office: None Fundraising: None Monte Willis is the sole candidate campaigning to represent Walla Walla’s East Ward in City Council Position 4. Brian Cariveau also filed for the position. He withdrew from the race, but his name will still appear on the general election ballot. Both candidates registered with the state’s Public Disclosure Commission, the state organization that enforces campaign finance and disclosure laws. Neither has reported funds raised or spent. Walla Walla City Council members are responsible for hiring the city manager and city attorney; adopting the city’s annual budget; and making policy decisions related to health, housing, economic growth and development, public safety, sustainability and more. The council also levies taxes, approves contracts and appoints members to city boards and commissions. Its members are elected to serve four-year terms. City Council members are paid $1,000 a month. The mayor, selected by sitting council members to serve a two-year term, receives $1,500 a month. Ted Koehler currently represents Position 4 and did not run for reelection. Here are questions and answers with Willis, who is an attorney in Walla Walla. Responses were limited to 150 words per question and have been edited for grammar and style. What is the most pressing challenge facing Walla Walla, and how will you address it? Willis: Walla Walla has tremendous community and economic strengths but needs to diversify into new industries. Although the explosion of the local wine industry has brought important elements of economic diversity to our community in the form of value-added agriculture and tourism, Walla Walla’s growing reputation as a destination also brings challenges. Destination tourism is vulnerable to economic cycles, requires a different kind of workforce, and attracts second home purchasers and retirees. Gentrification and increased competition for limited housing resources exacerbates housing affordability and homelessness. That impacts businesses’ ability to recruit workers and makes it even harder to attract new businesses to the area. Housing growth, therefore, is critical to business growth. We should proactively seek growth in new industries and work with other agencies, like the county and the port, to get it. We should also work to increase housing supply while avoiding sprawl. What do you recommend the city do to meet its goals for housing affordability, availability? Willis: The city should continue to work to facilitate and incentivize the construction of houses and apartments while avoiding sprawl. By allowing construction of ADUs (Accessory Dwelling Unit) in existing residential areas, the city has facilitated the construction of lower cost rental units and increased housing density. The city has also enacted tax incentives for the construction of lower cost apartment units. In addition, we are now finally starting to see construction on land zoned years ago for residential development. For example, houses are going up near the city golf course on the other side of U.S. 12. The city is also facilitating a development in the area between Rose Street and U.S. 12 near Offner Road. These are both areas where housing growth was planned, and we need to facilitate this trend to the extent possible. What ideas do you have to better involve the community, including Latino residents, in the decision-making process? Willis: We need to reach people where they are. That means more electronic communication, including through social media. Communications also need to be meaningful. In addition to time and place, communications should describe agenda items and why the public’s input is important. Whenever possible, a choice of language should be available. Regarding attendance, there needs to be more awareness that people can watch and participate remotely in real time without leaving home. In our on-demand world, people should also be aware that past meetings and work sessions can be viewed online. This allows people to stay informed even if they are unable to attend and will hopefully encourage them to participate in real time during future meetings. The city should continue to host outreach events like block parties and have a presence during other community events to encourage communication, awareness and participation. Find voter resources and full coverage of the Nov. 8 election at the UB Election Center. Kate Smith can be reached at katesmith@wwub.com or 509-577-7709.       
Log in
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Find voter resources and full coverage of elections at the UB Election Center. We’ve outlined our policies and priorities for covering elections, including how we receive and sift through story ideas, how we vet information, how we approach covering candidates and how community members can share their feedback. Please select all the ways you would like to hear from us: You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices here. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: