Newly-elected Niles trustees Morgan Dubiel and Marryann Warda took their seats at the Village Board dais alongside reelected trustees Craig Niedermaier and Dean Strzelecki on May 9. This marks the first time Niles has had a complete bench of trustees since 2021, when Denise McCreery, who is now Deputy Village Clerk, resigned her seat. In a packed board room, trustees’ friends and family — including Strzelecki’s three-month-old granddaughter, sporting a large blue bow — spent time mingling and taking pictures before Mayor George Alpogianis called the room to order. Former Trustee Louella Preston straightened current Trustee John Jekot’s tie before sending him up to the dais to watch Judge Anthony C. Kyriakopoulos swear in the board members. After they had taken their oaths and been seated around the horseshoe, the board members thanked the citizens and promised to represent their best interests. “I believe in unity, even those who didn’t vote for us, who didn’t support us, we’re going to be your best trustees we can,” Dubiel said. Warda used her first remarks as an elected official to “say thank you to my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, thank you to God.” Warda also thanked her family, fiancé and Alpogianis as well as her new constituents. “Even if you didn’t vote for us, that’s fine,” she said. “I will be a voice for you.” “I hope that we make you proud,” Niedermaier said. Jekot and Trustee Danette Matyas welcomed the newcomers and heralded the return of their reelected colleagues. “We’re going to work as a team, and we’re going to have fun,” Matyas said. “It’s good to see a full dais once again,” Jekot added. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.