                              Mainly clear. Low 49F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Mainly clear. Low 49F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 9:15 pm       Founded by Jason Warda and his family, The Warda Foundation is a local charitable foundation dedicated to giving back to the community that supports them.  Supported by his three local businesses, The Warda Foundation’s primary purpose is to help under-privileged children and families in need locally as well as give back in other ways, specifically by fighting against drinking and driving.  The Barn, The Ponemah Lakeside Lodge, and The Fenton Pub all help to support and host various events put on by the foundation throughout the year.  The Warda Foundation also takes a strong stance against drinking and driving, and promotes drinking responsibly. Warda has most recently bought the Fenton Bar Hopper bus, and has started offering a free ride service on the weekends their bars in the Fenton area.  The Warda Foundation hosts multiple events throughout the year, as well as participates in local charitable events such as the Thanksgiving CommUNITY lunch and their own Project Santa.  The Thanksgiving CommUNITY lunch provides free Thanksgiving meals to anyone in need in the local area through a real restaurant experience, along with offering fun family activities and a donation table.  Project Santa provides gifts to children and families in need in an attempt to brighten their holiday season.  Local families can reach out to The Warda Foundation with their children’s wish lists, which they will do their best to accommodate. The Warda Foundation has also teamed up with the Whaley Children’s Center to provide all of the Whaley kids with gifts.  There are many other charitable events The Warda Foundation has participated in and they host many other charitable events such as their upcoming Lakeside Terrors at the Ponemah Lakeside Lodge, donating to auctions, and their latest, Bottles, Brews & News.  Check out The Warda Foundation on Sept. 28, and try some of their best selling foods from their restaurants. Also check out all of the breweries.  Warda said, “We are so excited to be working with FARR again, and look forward to this event.”     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: