 Indonesian women's chess player Medina Warda Aulia made new history by qualifying for the third round of the 2023 Chess World Cup. Previously, Indonesian women's chess players had never made it past the second round.   This article has been translated using AI.  See Original . Please note that this article was automatically translated using Microsoft Azure AI, Open AI, and Google Translation AI. We cannot ensure that the entire content is translated accurately. If you spot any errors or inconsistencies, contact us at hotline@kompas.id, and we'll make every effort to address them. Thank you for your understanding. The following article was translated using both Microsoft Azure Open AI and Google Translation AI. The original article can be found in Sejarah Baru Catur Tercipta Berkat Medina Warda Aulia Indonesian chess player IM Medina Warda Aulia poses during the 2023 Chess World Cup in Baku, Azerbaijan, on Tuesday (8/1/2023). BAKU, FRIDAY - Even though she is already in a favorable position, Indonesia's female chess player, International Master Medina Warda Aulia, is still fighting aggressively to ensure her qualification for the third round or round of 32 of the 2023 Chess World Cup in Baku, Azerbaijan. This success will be a new history for Indonesian female chess, which has never before made it to the third round of the Chess World Cup. "Medina played aggressively as part of the strategy to ensure positive results, whether it be a win or a draw, in the second match. With a win in the first round, we asked Medina to continue to pressure and the results were satisfying," said Kristianus Liem, manager of the Indonesian team, who is also the Head of Performance Development for the Indonesia Chess Association (Percasi), on Friday (4/8/2023) in Baku, Azerbaijan." The second match against IM Sarasadat Khademalsharieh on Thursday (8/3/2023) ended in a draw, bringing the total score to 1.5-0.5 in favor of Medina's victory. The win over the Spanish-born Iranian chess player is a source of pride, as Khademalsharieh was seeded 13th in the tournament. Their ratings are quite far apart. Khademalsharieh has a rating of 2488 while Medina has a rating of 2355. Therefore, the results of both matches have added many rating points for Medina. Indonesian chess player IM Medina Warda Aulia posed during the 2023 Chess World Cup in Baku, Azerbaijan, on Thursday, August 3, 2023. As in the first game, Medina tried to take the initiative in the second game by playing an open game and pushing the white pawn in front of the king to E4. Khademalsharieh responded by moving the black pawn to E5. Then Medina mobilized the horses and elephants to press against the opposing minister's flank. However, Medina had lost momentum when her elephant was pushed back by enemy pieces and returned to the safe area of ​​the defense. Khademalsharieh attempted to press the white king's flank, but its defense was too open. Medina took advantage of the situation with a frontal attack to exchange elephants, horses, and fortresses while luring the black king out from its defensive corner. Indonesian chess player IM Medina Warda Aulia poses on the sidelines of the 2023 Chess World Cup in Baku, Azerbaijan, Wednesday (2/3/2023) When the two chess players' defenses open, the black minister tries to push the white king. However, the line of defense between the minister and Medina's white fortress managed to fend it off. Khademalsharieh made two attempts to check the white king but was always blocked by the fortress. The black minister and white bison made repeated moves in the same box, so the two chess players agreed to a draw. "This result is very gratifying and proves that Indonesian female chess players are able to perform brilliantly at the world level. Hopefully, Medina can win in the third round and continue to progress to the following rounds," said Eka Putra Wirya, Member of the Advisory Council of the Indonesian Chess Association.