 Christmas is fast approaching which means it's time to get all of your Christmas shopping finalised - and thanks to a new deal, you could bag some luxury products without needing to break the bank.  That's because the latest OK! Christmas Beauty Box is worth over £280 and packed with glamorous products - and you can currently snap it up for only £40 here.  Also, if you order today, you'll be upgraded to a free next-day delivery service and make sure you order by 20th December for Christmas delivery. The box is full of glam beauty and skincare products, from a Doctors Formula face mask that can keep skin hydrated during winter, to a Percy & Reed hair shine spray for the glossiest mane during the Christmas party season.  There's even a wax melt in the scents Christmas Dreams or French Lavender, which should keep your home smelling gorgeous over the festive period.  It's a great gift for a beauty fan in your life - or you could even dish out the contents into separate gift bags to stretch your budget that little bit further.  Just head over to okbeautybox.co.uk to grab your beauty box - and check out the run down of what’s included inside below…   Travel size, 15ml, RRP £22.50 This is a gentle exfoliating leave-on treatment from spa brand ESPA - perfect for perking up tired winter skin!    Full size, 50ml, RRP £12 Get enviable locks for the Christmas parties! This lightweight mist will make your hair and smell great with a gorgeous gloss that won’t weigh hair down.   We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Full size, 50ml, RRP £89 This one works magic when you sleep. It's an all-in-one treatment for stressed complexions, leave this luxurious face mask on overnight to soothe, clear and hydrate the skin.    Full size, 7.2ml, RRP £11.99 When it comes to Chritsmas parties and events, a stunning set of lashes can help make any look. This one is an extra-volumising version of Maybelline’s now-viral Sky High mascara. It contains “cosmic black” pigments for maximum intensity. You can also expect a lift and length.   Travel size, 30ml, RRP £18 Although the name of this product might sound like something from a scary film, it’s a real skin superstar. Use it as an additional layer of hydration in your skincare routine, as a primer, as a setting spray, or to refresh your face throughout the day.   20 pads, RRP £20 Vitamin C is one of the top ingredients skincare lovers are buzzing about right now, and gving your skin its daily dose of vitamin C has never been easier with these ready-soaked pads. They should help you get that more radiant complexion in one fell swoop.     Full size, 30ml, RRP £39.99 This is the perfect everyday vitamin C serum, with a whole host of skincare benefits and a lightweight, quickly absorbed texture.   Travel size, 30ml, RRP £9 A strong, healthy mane of hair is the ultimate Christmas party accessory, and this indulgent hair mask that doesn’t just repair damaged lengths but also fortifies the hair at the scalp, helping it to grow stronger and healthier.   One Pair, RRP 91p Cooling and hydrating, these hydrogel under-eye patches will banish puffiness and dark circles, and leave a smooth base for makeup. They're a real saviour after those late nights attending Christmas parties with pals.    RRP £3.50 Give your home a dreamy scent. This scented wax comes in two scents, Christmas Dreams or French Lavender. Pop yours on top of a wax burner and light a tealight underneath to let the fragrant scent fill your home.   With so many glamorous products, a gorgeous drawstring bag is a must to keep them all in one place. This one is great for travelling and day-to-day use. RRP £12.80  The perfect read for at-home Christmas pampering, you’ll get not one, not two, but four copies of OK! to redeem - the perfect opportunity to keep up to date with your favourite celebs! You can snap up the OK! Christmas Beauty box here.   Sorry, we are unable to accept comments about this article at the moment. However, you will find some great articles which you can comment on right now in our Comment section. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?