We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Published 3 February 2023 

 
  © Crown copyright 2023
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/online-copyright-infringement-tracker-survey-12th-wave/executive-summary-online-copyright-infringement-tracker-survey-12th-wave
 Wave 12 saw some notable changes compared to the previous two waves, which were conducted during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic and therefore saw consumer behaviour adapt. Wave 12 results returned to be broadly in line with pre-pandemic waves, with a few new themes emerging. The earlier note of caution around fluctuations in infringement figures due to new methods of access being included each wave should also be kept in mind when interpreting category results. This is particularly the case for categories where go-to methods are less dominant and public awareness about what is legal vs. illegal is lower. Overall infringement level among the total sample: 32% Infringement levels above average: Average infringement levels: Infringement levels below average: In the qualitative stage of research, by way of an Online Community, participants were asked about their consumption of online entertainment categories in more detail. The Online Community is a week-long internet-based series of guided activities in which participants interact with each other as well as moderators. The Online Community consisted of for this wave of research took place in May 2022 when restrictions around Covid-19 had been loosened but the financial impact of political events and the cost of living crisis were starting to be felt. Participants reported that the combination of 2 years of lockdowns followed by financial uncertainty meant that they still relied on entertainment to boost their mood or help them relax. With this backdrop of events, some participants emphasised how money would likely be a concern for them going forward, as energy and general prices started to increase and a few reported having already made cuts across various products and services. Though entertainment remained important to participants, some mentioned that they may have to start spending less by cancelling some subscriptions (though many said they would keep paying for content in some form) or finding more content for free. Though few had actioned this yet, some saw it as a potential necessity further down the line. Overall, participants reported varying patterns or shifts in their consumption. Some reported increases whilst others reported decreases, often due to spending more time outdoors as Covid-19 restrictions loosened and having less free time to be able to consume content than during the years of lockdown. Some felt their consumption had remained stable. When asked what sort of messaging could potentially persuade participants to change their behaviour, the topic of job losses within the creative industry proved one of the most impactful. Messages about malware held potential for some consumers and, overall, the tone of campaigns was seen as important. Given rising costs at present, participants felt a cooperative tone rather than a threatening one was called for in campaigns. This section provides an overview and comparison of key trends across each content category. It is based on the 2022 wave and includes yearly comparisons, where relevant. It covers engagement with online content, before looking in detail at levels of infringement, key characteristics of infringers and which legal sources they would be likely to migrate to. In this wave the number of respondents who had downloaded content in the previous three months increased or remained steady in most categories compared to the previous wave. Base for Wave 12: n=5,749 (total sample). Break in the series between Wave 8 and Wave 9 represents change in methodology. In this wave the proportions streaming content in each category either remained stable (within 1% of previous wave) or saw a slight increase compared to Wave 11. As such, all categories remained at the highest point we have seen in the study so far. Base for Wave 12: n=5,749 (total sample). Break in the series between Wave 8 and Wave 9 represents change in methodology. For each category, respondents were asked what their top three reasons were for choosing to access content online. There were some recurring themes across many of the categories: Base: those who downloaded, streamed or accessed content in each category (music = 3,196, film = 2,935, TV programmes/series = 2,825, live sport = 1,162, video games = 1,355, software = 1,148, e-books = 1,170, digital magazines = 532, audiobooks = 560) As highlighted in the methodology section, in 2019 there were changes made as to how the infringement figures are determined, which should be kept in mind when making comparisons between waves before 2019 (i.e Waves 8 and under) and 2019 or later (i.e. Waves 9 and above). The main change was that a less direct approach was taken to finding out whether illegal sources are used, in order to encourage more honesty. More specifically, rather than asking this outright, respondents were shown a list of options and the classification of legal vs. illegal was done based on the options chosen. Although the list was exhaustive, to reduce instances of the wrong source being selected and, thus, results being biased, for each category an option was included for those who may have been less familiar with the terminology. However, this option (“Download/access for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from”) was not included within the overall calculations for legal or illegal. We also excluded from the base those who only consumed content via this source. Infringement figures are based on the number of people who had used at least one illegal source in the previous 3 months. The overall level of respondents who had infringed across any category (excluding digital visual images [footnote 2]), increased from 25% in Wave 11 to 32% in Wave 12. It is however important to note why changes to this overall figure should be interpreted with caution. Fluctuation may arise due to new illegal source options being included for certain categories, or increases in some categories more so than others. In most categories the proportion of the sample who had infringed increased to some extent compared to Wave 11, although remained lower than previous peaks. Those who have used an illegal source at least once in the last 3 months (% of consumers in each category) Base for 2022: those who have used an illegal source at least once in that category during the past 3 months with ‘’Download/access for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from” not counting as either legal or illegal and those who only selected this option not included in the base (music = 789, film = 694, TV programmes/series = 535, live sport = 338, video games = 205, software = 271, e-books = 225, digital magazines = 165, audiobooks =155) In comparison to the overall infringement levels, a more nuanced view can be gained by looking at the combination of legal and illegal sources used. This year, while there were increases in overall infringement levels, for most categories the proportion using only illegal sources remained stable. Base for 2022: those who have consumed content (i.e. downloaded or streamed/accessed) at least once in that category during the past 3 months. ‘’Download/access for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from” does not count as either legal or illegal and those who only selected this option not included in the base (music = 3,103, film = 2,872, TV programmes/series = 2,749, live sport = 949, video games = 1,242, software = 999, e-books = 1,070, digital magazines = 408, audiobooks = 500) For music, film and TV, we are also able to look at infringement levels for downloading and streaming separately. Across all three categories there were higher levels of infringement for downloading when compared to streaming: Base for 2022: those who downloaded and/or streamed content in that category at least once in the past 3 months. Those who only selected “Download/streamed for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from or “Other” were not included in the base. (music = 3,103, film = 2,872, TV = 2,749) Here we provide more insight into the profiles of infringers by looking at key characteristics, including demographics, behaviours and attitudes. We also estimate the size of this group within the UK population. Base sizes for infringers (in each content category) are inclusive of anyone who has used an illegal source within the last 3 months. Base: those who have used an illegal source at least once in that category during the past 3 months with ‘’Download/access for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from” not counting as either legal or illegal and those who only selected this option not included in the base (music = 789, film = 694, TV programmes/series = 535, live sport = 338, video games = 205, software = 271, e-books = 225, digital magazines = 165, audiobooks =155) Respondents who had used illegal sources at least once in the previous 3 months were asked what they would do if these sources were no longer available to them. They were presented with a list of individual (paid and free) legal options and asked to select the one they would be most likely to use. 18% would “pay for a subscription to, or use a paid-for premium tier of, a music streaming service (e.g. Spotify, Apple Music, Deezer Premium)” 21% would use “a video platform such as YouTube or Daily Motion to watch/listen to music” 30% would “pay for a subscription to, or use a paid-for premium tier of, a video streaming service (e.g. Netflix, Amazon  Prime Video)” 14% would watch “TV Catch-up services (BBC iPlayer, 4OD, Sky etc.)” 27% would use a “paid subscription to an online video streaming service (Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, NowTV etc.)” 20% would watch “TV Catch-up services (BBC iPlayer, 4OD, Sky etc.)” 22% would watch a “paid subscription to a sports platform that could be accessed online” 14% would watch “free scheduled broadcasts by an official source on social media” 23% would pay “a single fee to download individual video games” 23% would download “video games for free through Apple App Store, Google Play, Playstation or Xbox Store, Steam, Origin etc.” 32% would pay “a single fee for an individual software package through a software creator’s store (Adobe, Windows etc.) or through the Apple Store on your iMac or MacBook” 36% would use “for free via a software creator’s store (Adobe, Windows etc.) or through the Apple Store on your iMac or MacBook” 19% would “buy physical copies of books through stores” 20% would access “digital or physical content made available online by a UK institution or library (e.g. at school, university, my local library etc.)” 27% would “buy physical copies of magazines through stores” 24% would access “content made available for free by publishers on their own social media or website (e.g. individual articles)” 14% would “pay for a subscription to a service that allows you listen to Audiobooks online (subscription to Audible, Scribd etc.)” 31% would access “content made available for free by publishers on their own social media or website (e.g. promotional chapters)” Base for all tables: those who have used an illegal source at least once in that category during the past 3 months with ‘’Download/access for free from the internet, without really being sure where it comes from” not counting as either legal or illegal and those who only selected this option not included in the base (music = 391, film = 465, TV programmes/series = 316, live sport = 198, video games = 100, software = 184, e-books = 140, digital magazines = 125, audiobooks =108) In the qualitative element of the study, participants in the Online Community were shown a range of messages accompanied by imagery which focussed on the potential consequences of consuming infringing content. Messages shown were based on previous waves of message testing for this study, based on what had tested well previously and what could be built on further with participants. The following types of messages were shown: Since the inception of the qualitative side of this research 4 years ago, it has become clear that different types of consumer are likely to respond to different types of messaging. In previous years, the following groups were identified: This year, we have added more depth to these groups by expanding further on what it is that may cause some people unease and reframing slightly how the groups are categorised. We have looked along attitudinal lines and grouped participants from the qualitative sample into three groups accordingly: With regards to communications therefore, it can be hypothesised that the following types of campaign might work per group: Those with moral concerns about using unofficial sources: Those with malware related concerns about unofficial sources: Those with no substantial concerns about using unofficial sources: Across the community, many said they were not aware that they could report others for IP infringement. Generally, they felt it was not a fact that was well known in general. It was not seen as something which necessarily concerned participants because many felt that others they knew also accessed content this way or that no one would realistically have reason to report them. Asked whether they would report someone for infringing, most said they would not and stated various reasons: However, when asked whether they would consider incorporating the fact that someone could report another individual into a campaign, some felt this could be an opportunity as it might deter some people who were thinking about infringing for the first time or were nervous about it. Yet, it would be worthwhile to consider the cooperative tone which is advisable in communications this year given the current circumstances and whether such a message would seem at odds with this ethos. IPO has been tracking consumer behaviour (among the 12+ population in the UK) in relation to online copyright infringement since 2012. Now in its twelfth wave of survey data, the Online Copyright Infringement (OCI) tracker has established itself as the most robust and insightful study in this space, globally. Australia, Canada and Germany have sought to replicate the study and the IPO is hopeful that other countries will follow. The study itself focuses on specific content categories, looking at infringement behaviours as well as other topics that help to contextualise and explain them. Given the rapid nature of technological advancements, the study is conducted annually to ensure that the IPO is able to monitor the impact of new online platforms on infringement behaviours. Findings from the IPO’s OCI study are widely disseminated and help to inform high-level decision-making. This includes monitoring infringement behaviours, tracking the effectiveness of educational campaigns looking to mitigate such behaviours, facilitating evidence-based policy making and liaising with stakeholders within the relevant content industries. In 2019, IPO commissioned AudienceNet to conduct the OCI study for the first time. IPO wanted AudienceNet to replicate key elements of the existing methodology, to enable comparability with previous waves of data, while also adding value to the study. Prior to the ninth wave, the research was purely quantitative with 4,500 online and 500 face-to-face interviews. Since the ninth wave, AudienceNet has employed a two-staged, mixed methodology, approach. The process was designed to replicate robust measurement while also offering additional depth of insight. The twelfth wave used the same streamlined questionnaire that had been the basis of the OCI since Wave 9 in 2019. The main change compared to waves preceding the ninth wave was that a less direct approach was taken to finding out whether illegal sources are used, in order to encourage more honesty. More specifically, rather than asking this outright, respondents were shown a list of options and the classification of legal or illegal was done based on the options chosen. Along with conducting yearly questionnaire hygiene checks (e.g. ensuring sources of access are up to date), a new section was also included which looked at awareness and likelihood of reporting IP crime. Quotas were set to ensure that the survey sample (N=5,000) was representative of the UK 12+ population in terms of age, gender and region. All respondents had internet access (i.e. the offline population was not included). The survey sample was sourced through AudienceNet’s network of professionally managed, ESOMAR compliant, online UK consumer research panels. While this is a cost-effective approach, one limitation is that it comprises people who have opted in to take part in research. The survey took, on average, 10 minutes for respondents to complete. There was a dropout rate of 33%. This year, 8 content categories were included in the research: music; film; TV programmes/series; live sports; video games; software; e-publishing (split into e-books, digital magazines and audiobooks); and digital visual images. The level of detail captured varies for some of the content categories: The most recent four waves (2019 to 2022) saw changes for some categories that impact comparability with previous data in relation to the e-publishing categories: The primary aim of the Online Community was to investigate, in more depth, the drivers and barriers to accessing online content via illegal sources, especially in the context of the “cost of living crisis” and the impacts this may have had on infringement this year. As in previous years, it also sought to test and co-create communications materials to inform potential communications to be used by the IPO to facilitate positive behaviour change. Upon analysis of the data from the Online Survey, AudienceNet identified key population segments to focus on in the qualitative stage. N=50 representatives of these groups were then recruited into a 5-day Online Community. These respondents accessed content via illegal sources, although some were heavier users while others used a more even mix of legal and illegal sources. The Online Community took place from 23-27 May 2022. For reasons of qualitative validity (i.e. convergence of insights), six of the content categories were focused on in-depth in the Community. Due to the low numbers of the sample who consumed digital magazines, the qualitative research on e-publishing only focused on e-books. While the quantitative stage of research provides the base of the tracker and remains consistent year on year, the qualitative element seeks to unpick the key opportunities for greater insight on certain topics and knowledge building for future communications work. This year, the Online Community focussed on changes in consumption and methods of accessing content as well as attitudes towards infringement and behaviour change campaigns. Music
TV
Film
Video Games
E-books
Live Sports To gain their trust and encourage honesty, those taking part in the Community were given further assurance that their responses would be anonymous and that no action would be taken against anyone indicating that they illegally access content. However, given the sensitive nature of discussions, only those 16+ were invited to take part. The report begins with a review and comparison of key trends across each content category. This is based on OCI 2022 data, with comparisons made with previous waves where relevant. Each content category then has its own bespoke section, based on 2022 results. Qualitative insights are included for content categories covered within the Online Community. The report ends with a summary of key findings that are relevant for future behaviour change campaigns. Results are largely based on the communications testing and co-creation activities conducted in the qualitative research. When qualitative conversations were held for this research in May 2022, the UK had come out of more than two years of social restrictions which comprised periods of national lockdowns a couple of months earlier. Though many were relieved that life was returning to what seemed normal, the past couple years and the remaining underlying presence of Covid-19 had exhausted and drained many of the participants we spoke to. In addition, with the political and economic turmoil earlier in the year leading to a cost of living crisis up and down the UK, participants now had another challenge to contend with. Some had already faced financial hardship during the Covid-19 pandemic which was now being compounded by the rising cost of living, and others who had not suffered financially during the pandemic were now worried about what the next months would hold. A few reported that they had already tried to cut costs where they could, by no longer going out to eat as much or doing an audit of their spending and seeing where they could cut back. Only some participants felt confident that their accustomed lifestyle would be sustainable over the next year. With this backdrop of continuous and sustained emotional stress or unease for many, it is unsurprising that entertainment continued to be considered very important to participants in relation to helping them unwind and escape from daily life. Entertainment was seen as something which could help boost participants’ mood and distract from any worries and in a year like this, some participants felt particularly reliant on their favourite entertainment categories. Previous waves during the pandemic had shown how entertainment could serve almost as a companion during times of lockdown where some felt isolated. Now, entertainment was said to help many by distracting them from uncertainty around money and anxiety around going back into a world without social restrictions for some. However, the rise in the cost of living experienced across the UK meant that while participants wanted to keep consuming all their entertainment at the same rate they had been, some were thinking about cancelling some of their subscriptions to save money. This was particularly the case with video based entertainment such as films, TV series and live sports where content was split across multiple platforms and some felt they could not justify paying for more than one or two. Other categories also saw participants wondering about saving money and finding ways of accessing content for free or from other people. For some, this meant they may use more unofficial sources but others said they would find free content via legal means. Quite stressful and not a great time for me personally. I would say I’ve been watching more TV content just to escape from day to day life. Female, 25-34, TV There has been a lot of challenges over the past year. Due to lockdown and homeschooling as well as the rising cost of living. Last month we went to the cinema for the first time in over two years due to lockdown ending. However, the challenge now is finding the cost for services such as online streaming and cinema trips. Female, 25-34, Film I have spent time reading, gardening, doing DIY jobs around the house, watching more films on Netflix and BBC iPlayer. However, we have reduced the amount of time and money spent going out. We have also spent less time on Sky channels which we have cancelled. Male, 55+, Film I’ve definitely been playing video games more, as I’m staying at home more now instead of going out so I can save money because it’s far too expensive to go out. Male, 25-34, Video Games I have found it quite stressful due to prices going up and experiencing lockdowns and the general Covid situation wasn’t great. Male, 25-34, Live Sports The past year has been very difficult. Recovering from the Covid pandemic and all the price rises has been really hard. I definitely don’t buy as many books and am looking for free reads more often. I’ve just got all my novels out of storage to read to save a bit of money and might have to start selling them off. Male, 45-54, E-books (e.g. sharing on social media, including within presentations etc). As such, we cannot be sure of
the full extent of copyright infringement. Passion levels were derived by scoring answers to a range of statements. The full list of statements can be found in the category sections of the report. They were scored on the basis of strongly agree=1, agree a little=2, disagree a little=3; strongly disagree=4. “High” was a score of 6-12, “Medium” 13-17 and “Low” was 18 or more. ↩ This was not included in the overall infringement figure as respondents were not asked about how they go on to use the images they access, and whether this is mainly for personal or public use ↩ Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      