The CIAC will honor seven individuals and a radio station with merit awards March 17 at 5 p.m. before the state boys and girls basketball championship games at Mohegan Sun. Maloney High School athletic director Robert McKee, Wamogo and New Fairfield AD Mary Stolle, Sacred Heart and Holy Cross boys basketball coach Ed Generali, Hillhouse girls basketball coach Catrina Hawley Stewart, long-time officials Terry Musselman and Craig Zysk and radio station WATR, which has broadcast high school basketball games for 76 years. The tournament will be dedicated to long-time official and IAABO Board 9 commissioner Peter Carroll. The five girls and five boys championship games will take place Saturday and Sunday at Mohegan Sun. Lori Riley can be reached at lriley@courant.com. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal.