


								
									AAPL: 224.12 ( -1.93 )								 
									Copyright © 2024 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
								 Apple's iPhone recycling robot, Daisy E-waste is a major issue across the globe, and one company based out of Ireland with direct ties with Apple is aiming to mitigate some of that impact. Here's how.  Apple has its own goals for trying to reduce its impact on the environment, including the iPhone recycling robot Daisy, to help dismantle old iPhones. However, the company also relies on third-party companies to help with these endeavors, which includes Alchemy.As reported by The Next Web, Alchemy is an Ireland-based "circular tech company." That means that it handles the full cycle of a device that's turned in for trade. When a device like an iPhone or MacBook is traded in at an Apple Store, that device is sent off to Alchemy which then takes over the process. Alchemy then handles the recovery, repair, and resale of those devices.The company is doing what it can to help mitigate the massive e-waste problem the global economy pushes out every single year. For instance, in 2022 that economy saw a total of 50 million tonnes of e-waste thanks to discarded devices.Alchemy started out small, but now has around 60 warehouses that are located across the United States, Europe, and Asia. They have to make sure to remove all sensitive data from the devices they receive, and Apple audits the company every six months.Alchemy is more about the refurbished element of the trade-in process. For instance, if an old iPhone is traded in that's incapable of being refurbished, it will likely make its way to the aforementioned recycle robot, Daisy.Once a device is wiped and refurbished, Alchemy sells it through a couple of different marketplaces, Loop Mobile and Callisto. The former is accessible through big box retailers like Amazon and Walmart, while the latter relies on other secondhand retailers. An iPhone's internals It's not a secret that Apple products retain value. Alchemy says that despite its age, the company sells upwards of 15,000 iPhone 8 models every single day. The push for secondhand devices comes down to a "flattened tech curve," according to Alchemy's CMO, James Murdock."In the early 2000s the advances in technology between models was huge," Murdoch said. "When a new Nokia 95 or HTC device came out it left the old model obsolete. But now, the tech curve has flattened somewhat, leaving older phones with decent residual value. As you can imagine, this has been a gamechanger for the refurb market."And while Apple doesn't directly make a profit from secondhand market sales, the circular tech industry does help the company.That's because even secondhand devices help boost Apple's market share, and boosts the company's other revenue streams, including the Services division.Apple will continue to utilize third-party companies like Alchemy moving forward, but that doesn't mean it is weakening its own involvement in the process to make its range of devices to have less of an impact on the environment right out of the gate. For instance, the company is planning to move to 100% recycled cobalt in its iPhone batteries by 2025. Apple has its own goals for trying to reduce its impact on the environment, including the iPhone recycling robot Daisy, to help dismantle old iPhones. However, the company also relies on third-party companies to help with these endeavors, which includes Alchemy. As reported by The Next Web, Alchemy is an Ireland-based "circular tech company." That means that it handles the full cycle of a device that's turned in for trade.  When a device like an iPhone or MacBook is traded in at an Apple Store, that device is sent off to Alchemy which then takes over the process. Alchemy then handles the recovery, repair, and resale of those devices. The company is doing what it can to help mitigate the massive e-waste problem the global economy pushes out every single year. For instance, in 2022 that economy saw a total of 50 million tonnes of e-waste thanks to discarded devices. Alchemy started out small, but now has around 60 warehouses that are located across the United States, Europe, and Asia. They have to make sure to remove all sensitive data from the devices they receive, and Apple audits the company every six months. Alchemy is more about the refurbished element of the trade-in process. For instance, if an old iPhone is traded in that's incapable of being refurbished, it will likely make its way to the aforementioned recycle robot, Daisy. Once a device is wiped and refurbished, Alchemy sells it through a couple of different marketplaces, Loop Mobile and Callisto. The former is accessible through big box retailers like Amazon and Walmart, while the latter relies on other secondhand retailers. It's not a secret that Apple products retain value. Alchemy says that despite its age, the company sells upwards of 15,000 iPhone 8 models every single day. The push for secondhand devices comes down to a "flattened tech curve," according to Alchemy's CMO, James Murdock. "In the early 2000s the advances in technology between models was huge," Murdoch said. "When a new Nokia 95 or HTC device came out it left the old model obsolete. But now, the tech curve has flattened somewhat, leaving older phones with decent residual value. As you can imagine, this has been a gamechanger for the refurb market." And while Apple doesn't directly make a profit from secondhand market sales, the circular tech industry does help the company. That's because even secondhand devices help boost Apple's market share, and boosts the company's other revenue streams, including the Services division. Apple will continue to utilize third-party companies like Alchemy moving forward, but that doesn't mean it is weakening its own involvement in the process to make its range of devices to have less of an impact on the environment right out of the gate. For instance, the company is planning to move to 100% recycled cobalt in its iPhone batteries by 2025. Over the course of a decade and some change, Evan's covered all sorts of topics for a variety of different publications. He joined AppleInsider in 2023. Apple has released watchOS 10.6.1 and tvOS 17.6.1 to the public, as well as rereleasing iOS 17.6.1 and iPadOS 17.6.1. For the first time, Apple has made its whole podcast library available online, where it can be heard in Safari or other browsers, instead of the Apple Podcasts app. Apple is commemorating the 108th anniversary of the US National Park Service by launching a campaign to raise funds through Apple Pay donations. A record-breaking discount is available exclusively for AppleInsider readers, with the premium 2024 M4 iPad Pro 13-inch with 1TB storage now $200 off. Procreate, company behind the popular art app designed exclusively for iPad, has issued a public statement saying that it has no plans to include generative AI in its products. Most potential upgraders will find pricing to be a big factor in moving to the iPhone 16, a survey claims, with the introduction of Apple Intelligence almost as important. The Apple Sports app now offers NFL and NCAA football support just in time for the upcoming football season. On this episode of the HomeKit Insider Podcast, we break down the news from Google's special event, the launch of the Aqara FP1E presence sensor, and more smart home news. Apple announced new AI language models at WWDC. These models run both locally on Apple devices and on Apple's own Apple Silicon-powered AI servers. Apple is applying to the City of Waukee in Iowa, just west of Des Moines, to return some of its land surrounding its iCloud data center back into a freshwater marsh, also known as a "prairie pothole." A report has outlined how Tim Cook has become the chief lobbyist for Apple. This is unsurprising, given Cook and predecessor Steve Jobs' history of influencing world governments. 