Police released this surveillance camera image of a vehicle sought in connection with a hit-and-run crash Wednesday in Bridgeton that left a 10-year-old girl hospitalized in critical condition. UPDATE: Driver charged in hit-and-run that crash that seriously injured 10-year-old girl A 10-year-old Bridgeton girl is hospitalized in critical condition after she was struck by a hit-and-run driver Wednesday night in Cumberland County. The girl was trying to cross East Broad Street near a Wawa in Bridgeton around 7 p.m., according to police. She was struck by a white SUV that fled the scene. The vehicle was last seen heading north on the Bank Street Extension heading toward East Commerce Street. The girl was airlifted to Cooper University Hospital with serious injuries and was listed in critical condition as of Thursday morning, police said. Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Bridgeton Police Detective Chris Zanni at 856-451-0033. Anonymous tips may be shared online at bpd.tips. Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Matt Gray may be reached at mgray@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices