
UPDATED 19:22 EDT / JUNE 25 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Duncan Riley

 Updated with announcement: International Business Machines Corp. today said it’s acquiring software company Apptio Inc. for $4.6 billion in cash, nearly five years after Vista Equity Partners Management LLC acquired the firm for $1.94 billion. The Wall Street Journal, citing people familiar with the matter, had reported Friday evening that IBM and Vista Equity Partners are in advanced talks and that a deal could be closed by the end of the weekend. Early today, IBM announced the acquisition, which it expects to close in the second half of the year. Founded in 2007 and notable as the very first company venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz invested in, Apptio offers cloud-based technology and hybrid business management software for managing businesses in the information technology field. The company provides a suite of business analytics applications that ingest data from various financial, operational, and billing systems to deliver a fact-based understanding of technology cost, quality and value. Apptio’s software provides IT leaders with actionable insights that can expedite data-driven decision-making processes. Organizations can use this information to align their technology expenditure with broader business outcomes and streamline IT processes such as cost transparency, benchmarking and operational efficiency. One key feature underpinning Apptio’s services is its in-memory cost analytics platform. The platform is designed with next-generation capabilities and is the foundation for applications that deliver insights into an enterprise’s infrastructure, applications and business services. The gathered insights encompass both on-premises and cloud-based systems. Apptio has more than 1,800 customers, including more than 60% of the Fortune 100, with its customers managing an annual technology spend in excess of $650 billion. “Technology is changing business at a rate and pace we’ve never seen before. To capitalize on these changes, it is essential to optimize investments which drive better business value, and Apptio does just that,” said IBM Chief Executive Arvind Krishna said in a statement. “Apptio’s offerings combined with IBM’s IT automation software and watsonx AI platform, gives clients the most comprehensive approach to optimize and manage all of their technology investments.” The acquisition comes at a time when IBM is shifting to more of a focus on the hybrid cloud and artificial intelligence. IBM has divested or spun off several companies in recent years, including Kyndryl Holdings Inc. and Watson Health, and is also reportedly exploring the sale of its weather business. Conversely, IBM acquired software provider Turbonomic Inc. for $1.5 billion in 2019 and Red Hat Inc. for $34 billion in 2019. A deal to acquire Apptio would fit with a pattern of Big Blue snapping up companies as part of its overall shift. THANK YOU A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers US grand jury indicts North Korean hacker for role in Andariel cyberattacks A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration CLOUD - BY PAUL GILLIN . 2 DAYS AGO Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game BIG DATA - BY GUEST AUTHOR . 2 DAYS AGO X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny AI - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio SECURITY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers AI - BY ROBERT HOF . 3 DAYS AGO US grand jury indicts North Korean hacker for role in Andariel cyberattacks SECURITY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.