You can stop by some of your favorite Philadelphia museums for free during Wawa Welcome America's Free Museum Days, which take place between June 19 and July 4.  Philadelphia news 24/7: Watch NBC10 free wherever you are In total, there are at least 36 opportunities to visit museums throughout the city for free over the 16-day festival. Guests are encouraged to check each museum website for information ahead of their visit. Here is the Museum Days list of places you can visit for free during Wawa Welcome America -- and what you can expect to see.   Carpenters' Hall10 a.m. to 4 p.m. It's time for the grand reopening of this historic spot, "which in 1774 laid the foundation for American independence." "The ceremony will feature VIP speakers, performances and other surprises to recognize the completion of the preservation project and recovery from the fire. Plus get a sneak preview of plans to commemorate the 300th anniversary of The Carpenters’ Company and the 250th anniversary of the First Continental Congress in 2024. A ribbon cutting will be followed by self-guided tours of Carpenters’ Hall, with historic reenactors appearing throughout the day. The Hall will close at 4:00 p.m." the WWA website says. Elfreth's Alley Museumnoon to 4 p.m. Feel "Revolutionary" while taking a stroll down this neighborhood. "The mission of the Elfreth’s Alley Association is to preserve and protect the Elfreth’s Alley historic district, while interpreting the contributions of everyday Philadelphians to our American story. The Elfreth’s Alley Museum interprets the lives of people who lived and/or worked on this historic street over three centuries. Located in two homes along Elfreth’s Alley, the museum introduces visitors to residents of house #126: two single women dressmakers making ends meet in the 1760s, German-American shoemakers raising a family and building wealth in the 1850s, and more." the WWA website says. Eastern State Penitentiary6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Watch out for ghosts in this historic prison. "Free Museum Night Admission includes 'The Voices of Eastern State' Audio Tour narrated by actor Steve Buscemi, history exhibits like Al Capone’s Cell, award-winning exhibits about prisons today, artist installations, and other offerings exclusive to special evening program Night Tours: Summer Twilight. Grab a Triple Bottom Brewing Company beer, soft drink, or snack and relax outdoors in The Fair Chance Beer Garden. Reflect on Eastern State’s history and the legacy of criminal justice reform through hands-on activities like trivia, postcard-writing, and art." the WWA website says. Cliveden House10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Step into over 200 years of American History. "Cliveden is a historic site that preserves and interprets over 200 years of American history through the lives of the Chew Family and their staff, both enslaved and in service. Cliveden produces engaging programming for children and adults to connect the past and the present." the WWA website says. Faith and Liberty Discovery Center10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Walk into something new. "The Faith and Liberty Discovery Center is a new museum owned and operated by American Bible Society on Philadelphia’s Independence Mall." the WWA website says. African American Museum in Philadelphia8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The museum displays the richness and vibrancy of African-American heritage and culture, with four exhibit galleries filled with exciting history and fascinating art. Click here for details to know about your visit. Wagner Free Institute of Science9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. "Come see our landmark building and historic museum collections, including rocks, minerals, fossils, taxidermy animals, mounted skeletons, and more," Wawa Welcome America says on its website. "The exhibit hall is self-guided, allowing visitors to explore and learn at their own pace. For first-time visitors and anyone preferring a little more direction, we have scavenger hunts to guide you and knowledgeable staff on hand to answer any questions." There is also a guided tour planned. The Print Center11 a.m. to 6 p.m. This Rittenhouse Square area nonprofit "encourages the growth and understanding of photography and printmaking as vital contemporary arts through exhibitions, publications and educational programs," Wawa Welcome America says on its site. Check out the collection from established and emerging artists. Woodmere Art Museum10 a.m. to 5 p.m. "Housed in a 19th-century stone mansion on six acres in Chestnut Hill, Woodmere Art Museum is dedicated to the art and artists of Philadelphia," Wawa Welcome America says. See unique art as part of a juried exhibition on display. Fairmount Water Works11 a.m. to 5 p.m. "For more than 200 years, the Fairmount Water Works has told the story of our connection with water," Wawa Welcome America says. Located on historic Boat House Row, it operated as a pumping station from 1815 to 1909, an aquarium from 1911 to 1962, as the Kelly Pool until 1972, and today serves as the Philadelphia Water Department’s public education destination, housing an award-winning urban environmental education center." Don't miss a last chance to check out the POOL exhibition that "weaves together history, art, storytelling, and place-based learning, exploring the role of public pools in our communities with the goal of deepening understanding of the connection between water, social justice and public health." This is the last opportunity to experience the immersive museum exhibition in person in Philadelphia." Historic Rittenhouse Town10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Take a journey back in time. "Historic Rittenhouse Town is the site of the first paper mill in America dating to 1690," Wawa Welcome America says. "The 1707 Rittenhouse Family Homestead is one of the oldest buildings in Philadelphia. This tour will explore the legacy of the Rittenhouse Family, the art of paper making and the story of this important industrial site from industrial to bucolic." Wyck Historic House, Garden & Farmnoon to 4 p.m. Keep the history tour going at this mansion  that's celebrating a milestone this year. "Celebrating its 50th year as a public site in 2023, Wyck is a National Historic Landmark house, garden, and farm in the Germantown neighborhood of Philadelphia that served as the home to one Quaker family for nine generations (1690-1973)," Wawa Welcome America says. "The family left behind an incredible record of everyday life in Philadelphia, including over 10,000 historic objects, the oldest rose garden in its original plan in the United States, and a beautiful 2.5 acre landscape with an active urban farm." You can tour the first floor of the house and the rose garden.  Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Relive centuries of the American Jewish experience no matter your own family history. "The Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History, on Independence Mall in Philadelphia, presents educational programs and experiences that preserve, explore, and celebrate the history of Jews in America," Wawa Welcome America says. "Its purpose is to connect Jews more closely to their heritage and to inspire in people of all backgrounds a greater appreciation for the diversity of the American Jewish experience and the freedoms to which Americans aspire." Stenton1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Dating back to 1730, "Stenton is one of the earliest, best-preserved, and most authentic historic houses in Philadelphia," Wawa Welcome America says. You must reserve a tour time. Tours are being held on the hour 1 p.m., 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Click here for how to reserve your spot. Philadelphia Masonic Temple10 a.m. to 3 p.m. "Philadelphia’s Masonic Temple is celebrating its 150th anniversary this year with a series of special events and free tours," Wawa Welcome America says.  Check the Wawa Welcome America site for a registration link. Science History Institute 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Let's get scientific. "Join the Science History Institute every Saturday for 'Stories of Science' as we highlight a different 'element' of science each week," says a post on the Wawa Welcome America page. "Explore our unique themes through special highlights tours, and interactive activities for all ages. Learn more about the diverse narratives that weave together to create the science we know today!" The Rosenbach Museum and Library10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. History - it's in a book in the Rittenhouse-Fitler neighborhood. "The Rosenbach preserves a nearly unparalleled rare book and manuscript collection, with particular strength in American and British literature and history," the WWA site says. "Exhibitions, programs, and research with this collection have focused on Colonial American history, African American history, children’s literature, book arts and technology, gay and lesbian literature, early Modernism, and much more." Paul Robeson House & Museum11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stop by the Paul Robeson House and Museum in West Philadelphia. "The Paul Robeson House was the home of internationally renowned American bass-baritone concert singer, actor of film and stage, All-American and professional athlete, writer, multi-lingual orator, human rights activist, and lawyer Paul Robeson from 1966 until 1976," the WWA website says. John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Get outside and get up close to nature. "The refuge is a treasured green space nestled within the city of Philadelphia, teeming with a rich diversity of fish, wildlife, and plants native to the Delaware Estuary," the WWA site says. "The refuge supports a diversity of habitats, including freshwater tidal marsh, open waters, mudflats, and woodlands that the hundreds of species call home." Historic Strawberry Mansion10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Grandeur on display. "Historic Strawberry Mansion is the largest of the historic Fairmount Park historic houses," the WWA site says. "The grand structure was then purchased and restored by the Committee of 1926, who furnished the home with a can’t-miss collection of dolls from the Sesquicentennial of 1926 alongside another extensive collection of American and European antiques and artwork." Christ Church Preservation Trust11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Known as “The Nation’s Church,” Founding Fathers like John Adams and George Washington went here while Revolutionary era worshippers included Benjamin and Deborah Franklin, Betsy Ross, Robert Morris, Benjamin Rush and Francis Hopkinson. "This Church further serves as a site of significance in Philadelphia’s history of slavery and abolition," the WWA site says. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Roar and check out dinosaurs and so much more! "The Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University is the oldest natural history museum in the Americas and one of the country’s leading scientific institutions, with over 200 years of experience in curation, cutting-edge research and education," the WWA site says. Mütter Museum10 a.m. to 5 p.m. This place specializes in the odd. "America’s finest museum of medical history, the Mütter Museum and Historical Library, displays collections of anatomical specimens, models, medical books, and medical instruments in a beautiful beaux arts building," the WWA site says. "Visitors can explore galleries, attend pop-up programs, hear gallery talks, and relax in our beautiful Benjamin Rush Medicinal Plant Garden." The museum asks that you reserve your ticket online ahead of time. Betsy Ross House1 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. Get in the patriotic spirit and celebrate the red, white and blue. "The Betsy Ross House, the birthplace of the American flag, is alive with the sights and sounds of the 18th century," the WWA site says. "Tour the house and then stay a while longer to meet Betsy in her upholstery shop and learn more about her exciting life and times through our interactive, historical programming." National Constitution Center (courtesy of Wawa)10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Get to know the fabric of our country in this Old City institution. And be close to the free food of Wawa Hoagie Day. "The National Constitution Center brings together people of all ages and perspectives, across America and around the world, to learn about, debate, and celebrate the greatest vision of human freedom in history, the U.S. Constitution," the WWA website says. Check back in the days ahead for details on more free museum entries, including the Barnes Foundation, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Penn Museum and Simeone Foundation Automotive Museum. You can also check out the full list of Museum Days on the Wawa Welcome America website. Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dive into an artistic journey. "As the first art museum and school in the United States, PAFA celebrates the transformative power of art and art making. PAFA inspires the public by expanding the stories of American art through its collections, exhibitions, and programs; and educates artists from around the world to be innovative makers and critical thinkers with a deep understanding of traditions and the ability to challenge conventions. Through its world-class museum and school, PAFA nurtures and recognizes artists at every turn in their career." the WWA website says. The National Liberty Museum10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Come out to the National Liberty Museum to learn all about the stability and fragility of liberty. "Enjoy free admission as you take in our galleries, including our latest exhibition Data Nation: Democracy in the Age of AI. Explore the relationship between technology and the liberties we value with self-guided code-cracking activities. Make a donation to support our education programs for an opportunity to let freedom ring by sounding our replica of the Liberty Bell!" the WWA website says. Make sure you register here to reserve a ticket. The Free Library of Philadelphia10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Grab a new read or even a rare book at the Free Library of Philadelphia. "The Free Library of Philadelphia’s Rare Book Department is one of the largest public library special collections in the United States. The Rare Book Department offers free access to exhibitions of historically important books, manuscripts, and works of artform 3,000 BCE to today. Among its collections are thousands of illuminated medieval manuscripts and cuttings; first editions, letters, and manuscripts of important writers, including some of the largest collections of Charles Dickens and Edgar Allan Poe; nearly 50,000 early American children’s books; original artwork by Beatrix Potter and other illustrators; Mughal court paintings; and Pennsylvania German fraktur, manuscripts, and printed books." the WWA website says. American Swedish Historical Museum10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Explore Swedish History. "The American Swedish Historical Museum welcomes all people to explore cultural identity through the story of Swedes and Scandinavians in America through our 12 galleries featuring art, history, science, and culture. Be sure to visit our current rotating exhibition Radically Marimekko." the WWA website says. Penn Museum10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Step into the past with several different engaging exhibits. "Experience 10,000 years of history—including Ancient Egypt, Rome, Greece, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, Mexico and Central America—all right here in Philadelphia at the Penn Museum." the WWA website says. Reserve your tickets here in advance to enjoy free admission.  Arch Street Meeting House10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Take a trip back more than 200 years into Philadelphia's Quaker history. "Step inside this active Quaker meeting house to learn more about the stories of the people, the building, and the grounds of Arch Street Meeting House." the WWA website says. Fireman’s Hall Museum10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stop, drop, and roll into this museum.  "Located in historic Old City Philadelphia, the museum is housed in a renovated 1898 firehouse. Fireman’s Hall Museum is one of the nation’s premier fire museums focused on the preservation of Philly fire history and promoting fire safety. Philadelphia is the birthplace of the first volunteer fire companies. In 1736, Benjamin Franklin founded the first volunteer fire company called The Union Fire Company." the WWA website says. Simeone Foundation Automotive Museum10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Celebrate the history of race cars in one of the region's most unique museums. "Through our theme, “The Spirit of Competition”, we celebrate the history and evolution of these magnificent machines, the WWA website says. "Assembled over 50 years by Dr. Frederick Simeone, the Museum contains over 75 historically significant cars including Ferrari, Alfa Romeo, Bugatti, Mercedes, Jaguar, Bentley, Porsche, Aston Martin, Corvette, Ford, and more." Philadelphia Museum of Art10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Get artsy and see what's inside the museums with the steps that "Rocky" made famous. "A world-renowned collection. A landmark building. A place that welcomes everyone. We bring the arts to life, inspiring visitors—through scholarly study and creative play—to discover the spirit of imagination that lies in everyone," the WWA website says. "We connect people with the arts in rich and varied ways, making the experience of the Museum surprising, lively, and always memorable. We are committed to inviting visitors to see the world—and themselves—anew through the beauty and expressive power of the arts." The Barnes Foundation11 a.m. to 5 p.m. One of the most impressive collections of impressionist and post-impressionist art is right here in the Delaware Valley. "On the first Sunday of every month, the Barnes partners with PECO to offer a free day of family fun. Along with art making, educational activities, and featured performances, the event includes complimentary access to the Barnes collection and “William Edmondson: A Monumental Vision”. the WWA website says.