Wayfair is offering huge deals during its "72-Hour Clearout Sale" with up to 60% off outdoor furniture, grills and fire pits, including a discount on this Char-Broil Performance Series gas grill. Wayfair is holding a huge “72-Hour Clearout Sale” with discounts on everything you need for the home. The “72-Hour Clearout Sale” has deals up to 60% off on outdoor furniture, grills, fire pits and more through Tuesday, August 28. Wayfair has reduced the price on several patio sets and sectional seating up to 50% off. Grills and fire pits are reduced up to 35% off. Plus, there tons of price drops on other outdoor equipment, such as hot tubs and kid’s playsets. Wayfair also has markdown steals on living room seating, dining sets, mattresses and more. Plus, free shipping is available on all orders over $35. Here’s a look at some of the top discounts on outdoor products from Wayfair’s “72-Hour Clearout Sale.” Shop all the deals during Wayfair’s “72-Hour Clearout Sale.” RELATED STORIES ABOUT RETAIL AND SHOPPING: Amazon deals: This new ThermoPro meat thermometer is now 35% off The best wood pellets for smoking in 2023, according to reviews The best grills for tailgating in 2023, according to reviews Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to NJ.com. Dawn Magyar can be reached at dmagyar@njadvancemedia.com. Have a tip? Tell us at nj.com/tips. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices