Nigel strengthened into a hurricane and is expected to rapidly intensify into a major hurricane Tuesday, according to the latest advisory from the National Hurricane Center. Closer to the U.S. , a new system has popped up immediately east of Florida. Forecasters said the system "could acquire some subtropical characteristics this weekend." As of now, it's expected to remain offshore as it moves slowly north or northwest. ➤ Track all active storms ➤ Excessive rainfall forecast The National Weather Service Jacksonville warned residents about marine and coastal hazards along the coast and Intracoastal Waterway Thursday through Saturday if a low-pressure system does develop offshore. Gusts of 30-40 mph are possible, along with breakers of 5 to 8 feet. Residents could see hazardous seas, tidal flooding and beach erosion. A tropical wave moving off the coast of Africa, though, is expected to become a tropical depression later this week as it moves west across the Atlantic. If Nigel does strengthen into a major hurricane as expected, it will become the fourth storm of the 2023 season. A major hurricane is one that is a Category 3, 4 or 5 storm. A Category 3 hurricane has minimum sustained winds of 111mph Here's the latest update from the NHC as of  2 p.m.:   Special note on the NHC cone: The forecast track shows the most likely path of the center of the storm. It does not illustrate the full width of the storm or its impacts, and the center of the storm is likely to travel outside the cone up to 33% of the time.  ➤ Spaghetti models for Hurricane Nigel: At 11 a.m., the center of Hurricane Nigel was located near latitude 27.2 North, longitude 51.4 West. Nigel is moving toward the northwest near 12 mph, and this general motion is expected to continue for the next couple of days. Nigel is then forecast to turn northward late Tuesday, and then accelerate northeastward through the rest of the week. Maximum sustained winds are near 80 mph, with higher gusts. Nigel is forecast to rapidly strengthen into a major hurricane on Tuesday. A gradual weakening trend could start on Wednesday. Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles from the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 160 miles. The estimated minimum central pressure is 984 mb. Special note about spaghetti models: Illustrations include an array of forecast tools and models, and not all are created equal. The hurricane center uses only the top four or five highest performing models to help make its forecasts.  Disturbance 2: A non-tropical area of low pressure is forecast to form near the southeastern coast of the United States late this week. This system could acquire some subtropical characteristics this weekend if it remains offshore while it moves generally northward. Tropical wave: A tropical wave is expected to move off the west coast of Africa by Wednesday. Environmental conditions are forecast to be conducive for gradual development of the wave thereafter, and a tropical depression is likely to form late this week or this weekend while the system moves westward across the eastern and central tropical Atlantic. Hurricane Nigel: Nigel is expected to be pulled north and then northeast this week, away from Bermuda. If so, the island may see rough surf and rip currents, according to AccuWeather. However, if it tracks more to the west, residents in Bermuda may also get rain and gusty winds. System off Florida: If the system of low pressure does develop east of Florida later this week, it could bring strong and gusty onshore winds, bands of heavy rain, high surf and beach erosion to portions of east central Florida, according to the National Weather Service Melbourne. It's too early at this time to determine if there will be any impact to the U.S. from the tropical wave. Forecasters urge all residents to continue monitoring the tropics and to always be prepared. The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. The peak of the season is Sept. 10, with the most activity happening between mid-August and mid-October, according to the Hurricane Center. Systems currently being monitored by the National Hurricane Center. We will continue to update our tropical weather coverage daily. Download your local site's app to ensure you're always connected to the news. And look at our special subscription offers here. 