

March 16, 2023

 The WireWall. Image courtesy NOC The National Oceanography Center (NOC) developed WireWall, a system designed to measure the speed and volume of overtopping water on a wave-by-wave basis in the field. The aim is to reduce uncertainty in overtopping forecasts and improve hazard warning systems.Previous field data has been obtained using large collection tanks which can only be deployed for short periods, and are only capable of obtaining data on the total volume of water that has overtopped during a storm, or a high tide event. The tanks used in previous field measurements can only be deployed on a few types of structures, such as, inland of a solid wall at the top of a coastal defence, which means that the amount of data previously obtained in the field is very limited – compared to WireWall which has been designed so that it can be deployed on almost any structure. Until now, a lack of field data has meant that the prediction tools currently used are based on studies of a limited range of coastal defenses using idealised experiments in flumes. This means that the industry standard tools that are used to predict wave overtopping can have large uncertainties. A paper published in the Communications Engineering journal highlights the validation of WireWall, and several of the results from the first trial deployments at Crosby, near Liverpool. The validation process took place in the flume facilities of the project partners at HR Wallingford, where a wave machine generated waves similar to those that might be expected at Crosby, and these impacted a 1:7.5 scale model of the Crosby seawall.In future, WireWall overtopping measurements could be used to improve industry-standard overtopping prediction tools and hence improve flood and hazard forecasts.  Field measurements of overtopping will also allow experts to study the sort of wind and wave conditions that cause overtopping, which will improve numerical models. 
A containerized remotely operated towed vehicle (ROTV) solution - reportedly a first-of-its-kind - developed for the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD)…
 
The Ocean Startup Project announced the launch of its fourth Ocean Startup Challenge, encouraging innovators and entrepreneurs…
 
Water temperatures in and around Australia's Great Barrier Reef have risen to their warmest in 400 years over the past decade…
 
Using the autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) Ran underneath 350 m thick ice, an international team of researchers created…
 
Subsea Integration Alliance, a global alliance between Subsea7 and SLB’s OneSubsea, has secured a ‘sizeable’ contract from BP for the engineering…
 
Ocean Energy USA, a subsidiary of Irish-based Ocean Energy, has deployed its 1.25 MW-rated wave energy device at the US Navy's…
 Marine Technology Reporter is the world's largest audited subsea industry publication serving the offshore energy, subsea defense and scientific communities. Marine Technology ENews is the subsea industry's largest circulation and most authoritative ENews Service, delivered to your Email three times per week Subscribe for MTR E-news