Bethlehem Township residents say they don’t need another Wawa. They’ll find out next month if they’re getting one. The township’s zoning board is scheduled to give its final opinion on whether the gas station chain conforms to the property’s approved zoning uses on April 26. The property is zoned for medium-high density residential use, and exists within the Neighborhood Enhancement Overlay. Residents claim the property at 4900 Freemansburg Ave. does not fit within the township’s reasoned uses for the property. “I didn’t envision that the area I live in was going to develop a strip mall. I assumed that the zoning ordinance would keep things in their proper perspective,” Steven Hunt, a Bethlehem Township resident, told the board. The property is adjacent to a CVS Pharmacy to its west and within walking distance of a ShopRite. But each is included within the township’s mixed-use overlay. Representatives for the developer argued that the developer’s property should be treated similar to those properties. “As far as what the township has considered with this map. … it is spot zoning,” attorney Julie Wagner Burkart, of Stevens & Lee said, referring to a parcel with special zoning that differs from the zoning surrounding the parcel. Wagner Burkart represented the developer MPW Properties Inc. and Wagner Enterprises. “We wouldn’t be having this conversation if there was some way to distinguish the parcels,” she said. Wagner Enterprises and MPW Properties Inc. are proposing to build the convenience store/gas station, a bank and two eight-unit garden apartments on the eight-acre tract of land. Detailed plans for the convenience store haven’t been made available yet. FILE - This April 2, 2015, file photo shows a Wawa convenience store in Philadelphia. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke, File)AP Some residents plainly say they don’t need the new business and they don’t want it, and that should be fair enough justification. “Our town is 15 square miles. Why do we need three Wawas in 15 square miles?” one resident said. “Come on, guys, let’s think about the residents of this town.” The township approved plans for a Wawa gas station at Nazareth Pike and Oakland Place last year. Construction on the project is expected to begin this year. A third Wawa convenience store would be at 4457 Easton Ave., between the Blue Grillhouse and Farmersville Road. The Lehigh Valley Planning Commission recommended approval of the initial plan by the township to amend the property’s zoning use in August, when the latest project received initial support. Bethlehem Township supervisors ultimately squashed the idea and the project was ordered back to the zoning hearing board for reconsideration. Glenn Epps can be reached at gepps@lehighvalleylive.com or glenn_epps_on Twitter. More: Costco, Wawa, Sheetz and other companies to open more stores in central Pa. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices