When Alarm.com unveiled its new Water Dragon home water  protection solution at CES 2023, it became one of the first products to  leverage the new Z-Wave Long Range (LR) protocol, joining fellow Z-Wave Alliance  companies Zooz, The Smartest House, and Ecolink as early adopters of the certification  introduced in 2022. Z-Wave LR extends Z-Wave connectivity beyond the interior  boundaries of the home to improve wireless transmission range of peripheral  Z-Wave devices such as door locks, garage door sensors, gate access solutions,  and more, while increasing scalability to over 4,000 nodes on a single smart  home network.   “What Z-Wave Long Range enables you to do is get upwards of  a mile or more in terms of distance between your long-range product and your main  system,” Mitchell Klein, Executive Director of the Z-Wave Alliance, explained  at their CES 2023 booth. “In terms of practical use cases, a perfect example  would be door locks out on the fringe of a property – pool houses, mailboxes –  and even large homes getting from one end to another.” “Long range enables the distance and also enables larger  quantities,” Klein explained “Whereas Z-Wave typically enables about 252  products per system, Z-Wave Long Range enables upwards of 4,000 devices into a  single system. So when you're looking at an MDU and working with a property  manager, using door locks as an example, being able to lock or unlock the door  to one of the apartments to enable someone to go show it; or activating  thermostats or lights; we find that our members find this larger quantity to be  a very attractive opportunity.” The Z-Wave Pavilion – which featured 13 different partner  companies at CES 2023 – has long been a fixture on the show floor at CES;  however, the push for smart home device standardization has seen more entrants  into this space, including the much-ballyhooed Matter standard, a product of  collaboration between the biggest tech heavyweights around – Amazon, Apple, Google  and the list goes on.  Is this friendly competition a good thing? Klein thinks so.  “First of all, we are very supportive of Matter, even if it  has gotten enormous press and media attention,” Klein says. “Whenever you get  companies like Amazon and Apple and Samsung to all agree on something, that is  big news, and I will acknowledge that. But I'm actually really happy about it  and really supportive of it.  Now we've got all these large and small companies in the CSA  all saying interoperability matters…well you know what? We have been saying  that for 20 years, so it is really nice that someone else is saying  interoperability is important,” Klein added. “Another aspect for why we're  really supportive of Matter is that we recognize that if a technology were to  come out that made all of the hundreds of millions of existing products in the  marketplace, become dark and would no longer work, that would not be very  successful initiative. The development and the platform for Matter always had  the intention to put hooks in with the intention of making them compatible or  interoperable with other platforms.”  Klein says he tells Z-Wave Alliance members to continue to  build Z-Wave enabled products, because he anticipates a “bridge” that will  enable all of them to interact with Matter once it fully rolls out.  “At the time when it is right for the consumer, or for a  company to deploy Matter products, it will be fully compatible with existing  products in the marketplace,” Klein explained. “Essentially, it means that a Z-Wave  product will look like a Matter device.” So with the amount of competing interoperability protocols  in the smart home – from Z-Wave to Matter to Zigbee and beyond – is there a  fight for dominance on the horizon? Klein says there is absolutely room for  them all.   “The reality is that different technologies exist because  certain ones are fit for certain purposes,” Klein said. “If a company comes to  me and asks if Z-Wave is the right product for [them], it is not an automatic  yes. Technology needs to be fit for a purpose. We already know Z-Wave is very  dominant in the security industry, because it's a secure product. It has never  been hacked outside of a lab. The security companies have adopted it, and  that's not going away. It is pretty clear that Z-Wave is not going away. What  is going to be really important is the bridging or the interoperability between  existing products and Matter. At some point, when Matter does become successful  and gets more widely adopted – and I expect it will be – its real purpose is to  enable consumers to buy devices that will automatically work with each other. “We want to make sure that it will be compatible with all  the products that security dealers are using,” Klein added. “Z-Wave is going to  continue to be an installer-focused product category; Matter will be more consumer-focused,  and there will be a bridge in between.” Paul Rothman is Editor-in-Chief of Security Business magazine, a printed partner publication of SecurityInfoWatch.com. Access the current issue, archives and subscribe at www.securitybusinessmag.com. Watch the full interview with Mitch Klein: https://youtu.be/JaMAsJZ-Au4.  Also check out our CES interview with Resideo discussing the  Matter protocol: https://youtu.be/IVSRh8OGM8M  Paul Rothman is Editor-in-Chief of Security Business magazine. Email him your comments and questions at [email protected]. Access the current issue, full archives and apply for a free subscription at www.securitybusinessmag.com. 