  Liberty Twp.’s board of trustees has approved plans for Unicorp National Developments, Inc. to build a Wawa gas station in the township. The Wawa convenience and gas store, which is part of a chain, will be built at 7160-7198 Cincinnati Dayton Road, near Skyline Chili in the long-dormant northeastern corner of Liberty Way and Cincinnati-Dayton Road on the southern boarder of Liberty Twp. Civil engineer John Bayer, with Mason consulting firm Bayer Becker, said it will replace an existing car wash and former convenience store. This is the first gas station Wawa has brought forward for approval in Ohio. Liberty Twp. Trustee Todd Minniear said Wawa’s choice of the community as its leading site in its state expansion speaks well of the township’s booming economy and desirability for developers. More than a decade ago the coming Wawa site was Dairy Mart convenience store, which then closed and the structure was abandoned for years and then a short-lived pool supply company occupied the property for a time.    But since the opening of the nearby $350 million Liberty Center in 2015, drawing in more business development — most recently the November opening of Butler County’s first Costco about one mile east on Liberty Way — the abandoned intersection corner had become a rarity of undeveloped property in the area. “This is a perfect location for Wawa and the community. It takes an unproductive, deteriorating property and puts it to great use for our residents,” said Minniear. “Wawa is known throughout the country as being a great place to work that provides a superior product and service. We are pleased Liberty Township has been selected as their first Ohio location.” Robert Grassman, who spoke on behalf of Wawa, said they plan to open a cluster of gas stations in Ohio in 2025. In December 2022, Wawa announced plans to expand to Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana after saying it had received “thousands of requests over the years.” The company also said it would begin opening stores in Tennessee, Alabama, North Carolina and Georgia. Wawa currently operates in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Florida and Washington D.C. It has 1,000 locations currently and is considered a staple on the east coast of the U.S. “These markets are the perfect places for Wawa to expand based on their strong business communities, their family-like atmosphere, and the confidence that our unique offer and amazing associates will be welcomed by these communities,” Wawa CEO Chris Gheysens said. “We look forward to bringing our freshly prepared food, specialty beverages, fuel, and convenience services to these new areas all while creating new jobs and meaningful community support.” In addition to its gas pumps, Wawa is known for food and beverage options such as custom-made hoagies and specialty drinks. About the Authors 