WEATHER ALERT Kayla Clarke, Senior Web Producer Published: August 27, 2023 at 8:28 AM Updated: August 27, 2023 at 9:50 AM Kayla Clarke, Senior Web Producer DTE Energy expects to have power restored to Southeast Michigan residents by the end of Sunday, Aug. 27. There are 56,427 DTE Energy customers without power as of 9:50 a.m. on Sunday, Aug. 27, according to the utility company’s outage center. More than 250,000 DTE Energy customers in Southeast Michigan were without power by late Friday morning, and that number continued to rise. Outages have been widespread throghout Metro Detroit. DTE Energy said their crews are “working as quickly and safely as possible to restore every outage.” The utility company expects to have 80% of customers impacted by the severe storms restored by the end of Saturday. DTE Energy expects all storm-related outages to be restored by the end of Sunday, Aug. 27. The National Weather Service has confirmed that seven tornadoes touched down in Michigan during severe storms that moved across the state on Thursday, Aug. 24. At least five people have died due to the storms. Trees were downed, roofs were torn off buildings, and some areas have seen flooding. ---> More: 7 tornadoes touched down in Michigan: Here’s where, when Report an outage to DTE here. Report an outage to Consumers Energy here. The company is asking residents to remain at least 25 feet away from downed power lines, or anything in contact with them. Assume any downed line is live and dangerous. DTE Energy said to follow these guidelines to stay safe around downed power lines: ---> Wayne County declares state of emergency after severe storms: What residents should know Get the 4Warn Weather newsletter delivered to your inbox every morning. Copyright 2023 by WDIV ClickOnDetroit - All rights reserved. Kayla is a Web Producer for ClickOnDetroit. Before she joined the team in 2018 she worked at WILX in Lansing as a digital producer. email twitter Click here to take a moment and familiarize yourself with our Community Guidelines. Recommended Videos Cookie Preferences If you need help with the Public File, call (313) 222-0556. At WDIV, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2024 ClickOnDetroit.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.