Save hundreds of dollars on this amazing gift for Mom, a bride-to-be, or a college grad.  If you buy something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission. Why Trust Us? Although it might not seem it, spring and summer are major times for gifting, what with Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, wedding season, graduations, baby showers, and, of course, birthdays. With so much exciting stuff to celebrate, it can also be overwhelming how much there is to buy. That said, we love to take advantage of the deals when they come around. And Wayfair is very much providing on that front right now. In case you hadn’t heard, Wayfair is currently holding its big Way Day sale event — which it extended to go through the end of the day today — where you can snag some serious markdowns on appliances, furniture, decor, mattresses, and much more. Sure, this could be a great time for you to grab some things you might need for your own home. But this is also an amazing opportunity to pick up some sweet gifts for your loved ones and save a little coin while you’re at it.  In particular, Wayfair is offering a massive 74 percent off this 11-piece Cuisinart Professional Series stainless-steel cookware set, making the typically $615 set about $160.  If you’re needing a good gift for Mom, a bride-to-be, or a new homeowner, you’re going to want to scoop up this set before it’s too late. This Cuisinart bundle comes with everything your recipient needs to cook up both fancy and casual meals, including a sauté pan, two saucepans, a steamer basket, a stockpot, two skillets, and a bunch of lids. And better yet, your recipient can go from the stovetop to the oven with no problem, since they're oven-safe up to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. The handles won't get scorching hot while your giftee is cooking away over the stove, either, and the set can be cleaned in the dishwasher — which is a major bonus. If you want to go all out, though, there's also a 13-piece stainless-steel Cuisinart cookware set on sale at Wayfair for 76 percent off that has the addition of an extra lid and a Dutch oven.  Shop the Cuisinart Professional Series 11-Piece Stainless-Steel Cookware Set Micki Wagner is a commerce editor for Hearst’s Enthusiast Group, where she is constantly on the lookout for exciting new products, great sales and deals, and fun gifts. Her work can also be found on Saveur and Worth. When she’s not writing about the latest and greatest products, you can find her checking out new restaurants, spending way too much time shopping online, and binging Parks and Recreation…yet again. The Best Amazon Labor Day Sales 2024 Our Editor’s Favorite Tablet Deals of August 2024 The Best Deals on Outdoor Speakers for August 2024 What We’re Shopping at Pottery Barn’s Summer Sale Google’s Pixel 8a Smartphone Is 20% Off Right Now Score These 15 Amazon Travel Essentials for Less Amazon Has the AirPods Max on Major Sale  The Best Dorm Essentials Deals to Pick Up Now 30 Best Sales on Amazon Right Now What to Shop at Nordstrom’s Anniversary Sale Score Up to 31% Off These Outdoor TV Sales The Best Ice Machine Deals to Shop Right Now A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.