The mercury is rising, the sun is shining and I spent the weekend prepping my deck for summer — have you? If your outdoor digs have seen better days, I've got you covered with some hot deals from Wayfair's Big Outdoor Sale that rival that thermometer reading. Now through Wednesday, May 17, you can score up to 50% off patio sets, chaise lounges, grills, umbrellas and more. I'm an interior designer and I'm here to tell you that your outdoor entertainment area should be just as comfortable and stylish as your indoors. Not sure how? I've curated a bunch of fabulous discounted furnishings to get you started, like 40% off a wicker patio set, or 64% off a French-style outdoor bar cart. Those summer days are almost here, so get clicking now before these deals disappear. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.