The 2023 Puppy Bowl begins at 2pm ET on Animal Planet. Stream the adorable four legged tradition with Philo, FuboTV, discovery+, and HBO Max. The annual Puppy Bowl gathers up two teams (Ruff and Fluff) of lovable little dogs and sends them out onto a miniature football field full of toys. The event supports animal shelters and rescue organizations that work tirelessly to secure safe homes and comfortable lives for all of the critters in their care. Complete with commentary, adoption stories, a Puppy Cheer Squad, the winning Wayfair “Lombarky” trophy, and even a slow motion camera, the Puppy Bowl is definitely the highlight of Super Bowl Sunday — especially if you prefer baby animals to contact sports. And this year, two Michigan puppies will be storming the field. From the Blue Water Area Humane Society, the already adopted Bacon and Eggs are playing for Team Fluff. Organization director Katie Phelan spoke to MLive reporter Fuad Shalhout about the event, championing the beloved feel-good competition as all about adoption, shelter exposure, and the well-being of the animals. “It’s aired nationally and Animal Planet is a big name.” Phelan said, “So to have our name up there and people can look at these kinds of puppies and know they come from shelters and rescue groups, it’s a great way to be represented nationally.” Watch the Puppy Bowl XIX today at 2pm ET to both enjoy a field full of fuzzy animals and support dedicated organizations from around the country. See below for how to watch. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices