LUDINGTON, MI – Michigan has a giant water battery perched high above the Lake Michigan shoreline south of Ludington, which in satellite images looks much like any other inland lake. But it’s not an average lake. The pumped hydroelectric storage facility operated by Consumers Energy isn’t new technology. It was built more than 50 years ago to help absorb nuclear energy during overnight hours when customer demand for electricity was low. Now both utility and independent experts say this major piece of power infrastructure is expected to be critically important as Michigan shifts away from fossil fuels and toward more renewable sources. “In its purest form, this really is just a battery,” said Jason Durand, senior operations manager. “It’s water at height, which in the purest form of physics is stored energy.” When constructed, the facility absorbed power generated overnight from multiple nuclear facilities along Michigan’s west side. But with the recent closure of the Palisades nuclear plant near South Haven and the past decommissioning of the Big Rock nuclear plant near Charlevoix, experts believe the Ludington infrastructure can now fulfill a new purpose. “It really is an enabler for our clean energy plan and more and more penetration into renewables. Because as we put more and more renewables on, we’re going to have to manage the peaks throughout the day. And this is just one huge storage solution,” said Norm Kapala, Consumers Energy vice president of power generation. During low customer demand periods, electricity from the power grid is used to pump water from Lake Michigan uphill into the manmade reservoir built atop the already tall shoreline bluff. Then during peak demand periods, the motor turbines are reversed and turned into energy generators as the water releases from the reservoir and drains downhill, back into the lake. “For every megawatt we put up, we get 77% of that megawatt back,” Durand said. Related: Consumers Energy explores sale of 13 hydroelectric dams The size and scale of the facility is immense with its ability to store 16,000 megawatt hours. It can ramp up power output to 2,340 megawatts in five minutes and run wide open for more than nine hours. With its six reversible pump-driven generator motor units, it is the second largest such hydroelectric facility in the United States and the sixth largest worldwide. The Ludington facility works like any other hydroelectric plant – flowing water spins turbines to generate electricity. But these are massive turbines, each at 27 feet across. “One unit at rated flow will fill an Olympic swimming pool in 6.2 seconds,” Durand said. “So, if you have all six machines running, we’re filling an Olympic swimming pool every second. And we can sustain that for over nine and a half hours of full power.” The Ludington facility is Consumers Energy’s single largest power generating facility. The facility is jointly owned with DTE Energy, which is a 49% minority owner. “The natural topography of the bluff height from the lake was already here. The reservoir itself, the entire five-and-a-half-mile perimeter wall was constructed from 1969 to 1973,” Durand said. The plant cost $347 million to build five decades ago and would today cost an estimated $5.5 billion to construct, officials said. Today the Ludington pumped hydro plant is a major element in Michigan’s renewable energy portfolio. Consumers Energy says it wants to generate 90% of its electricity from clean sources by 2040, ending all coal use by 2025 and relying more heavily on natural gas. Independent energy experts agree with the company that the pumped hydro plant will help achieve those goals, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions that drive climate change. “The key aspect for Ludington today is that it’s perfectly situated to combine with larger and larger amounts of solar and wind power,” said James Gignac, senior Midwest energy analyst for the Union of Concerned Scientists. “The reason for that is because generation from renewables is variable. So, Ludington can absorb extra generation from wind and solar, and then it can be dispatched as needed to smooth out those variables. And it also means that we waste less renewable energy.” Related: Michigan Democrats begin hearings on carbon-free energy legislation Officials with MISO, the regional grid operator, are currently studying whether a long-range power transmission line should be constructed beneath Lake Michigan to connect Michigan with Wisconsin and beyond. If approved, such a transmission upgrade would connect to Ludington and allow the pumped hydro plant to store power from what is often excessive wind energy generated in blustery western states. “That’s a great example of the types of planning and projects that we need to be doing now because of the lead time to get those approved and built. Projects like that will allow Ludington to have access to other types of resources and broader geographic areas,” Gignac said. “That abundant wind energy when it’s available, coming from the west, will allow the Ludington facility to be able to use that very cheap, plentiful energy storage and then have it available for Michigan.” However, the long-running pattern of water cycling at the pumped hydro plant will need to be altered for the new purpose. The utilities should begin studying those expected future changes at the Ludington plant now, Gignac said. “When it was primarily about absorbing nuclear power, it pumped water during the overnight hours and then would be available to discharge during the day. As we use Ludington in combination with wind and solar utilities, we’ll need to adjust those schedules. So, they may do pumping during like the middle of the day when there’s a lot of solar power, and then be available to discharge in the early evening as solar is not generating as much but there’s a lot of demand,” he said. A recent $800 million upgrade during federal relicensing boosted the Ludington plant’s capacity and extended its life by decades. The new Toshiba turbines are also designed to further reduce fish kills, an additional mitigation to accompany a 2.5-mile-long net barrier seasonally installed from April 15 to Oct. 15 in Lake Michigan across the intake area for the plant. The Great Lakes Fishery Trust was established in a legal settlement after the discovery in 1986 that the Ludington facility was causing fish deaths. Officials found that fish pulled into the facility weren’t being blended in the turbines, but instead the water pressure change caused fish to implode as they passed through the equipment. Eventually an agreement was finalized in 1996 among the facility owners, several Native tribes in Michigan, nonprofit conservation and environmental organizations, and the state and federal governments to set up the trust as compensation for past and future unavoidable fish losses. The barrier net system was created and is estimated to reduce fish deaths by more than 80%. During the facility’s federal relicensing in 2019, the trust was approved for another 50 years of funding public access, scientific research, habitat restoration, and Great Lakes stewardship programs to compensate the public trust for fish losses in Lake Michigan. Read more from MLive about climate and energy here. Related articles: Michigan gets control of 21 oil wells, $2.85 million in lawsuit settlement DTE agrees to close Monroe coal plant sooner; accelerate shift to clean energy Michigan gets nearly $15M federal grant to improve power grid resilience If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices