Wayfair will hold its second Way Day sale Oct. 25-26, 2023. Starting Oct. 18, shoppers will be entered to win $50,000 for a home makeover that includes Wayfair design services.Wayfair, LLC Way Day is Wayfair’s biggest sale of the year. Whether you’re looking to outfit your new home (which you can do from top to bottom at Wayfair) or you’re just looking to spruce up your outdoor space, you are not going to want to miss the huge markdowns the furniture giant will be offering through the end of the week. Since there’s so many Way Day deals, we’ve rounded up some of our favorite Doorbuster Deals ahead of the actual 2-day event which will take place October 25 through October 26. As a bonus, Wayfair is giving shoppers an opportunity to win $50,000 toward a home makeover, which includes help from Wayfair’s design services. A winner will be randomly selected in Nov. 6.  Products from popular brands like AllModern, Birch Lane, Joss & Main, and Kelly Clarkson Home will be on sale during the fall sales event along with deals on small appliances from popular brands like GE, Cusinart and more.   Wayfair already has tons of early deals across their most popular categories. Keep scrolling to check out some of their best early deals ahead of Way Day: Season Decor up to 50% off Mattress & More up to 50% off  Ashley Dill covers the online shopping industry, writing about commerce. She can be reached at adill@pennlive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices