
    This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field.
   We receive compensation from the products and services mentioned in this story, but the opinions are the author's own. Compensation may impact where offers appear. We have not included all available products or offers. Learn more about how we make money and our editorial policies. 
For many people, the idea of a full-service financial planning professional can seem daunting. It’s difficult to know what you’ll pay, and you might need a large account minimum to get started.
 
Facet aims to change the idea of full-service financial planning to make it more accessible, including providing you with a dedicated Certified Financial Planner (CFP). If you’re looking for a holistic approach to financial planning, this Facet review can help you decide if this company is the right option for you.
 
 
Facet is a wealth management firm founded in 2016 in Baltimore, Maryland. The company has more than 230 employees and is backed by Warburg Pincus, a well-known global equity firm.
 
Facet aims to be a full-service financial planning firm, offering personalized asset management as well as a breadth of targeted services that encompass estate, education, retirement, insurance, legacy, and tax planning. Facet can also help with other important aspects of your financial life, including creating a plan for retirement income. Its financial professionals can even walk you through choosing your benefits at work. 
 
With Facet, members are matched with a CFP, who is backed by a larger team of specialists. The idea is that you work with one person who understands your situation and your goals, similar to what you’d experience with a more traditional financial planner. Facet asks you to link all your financial accounts so your CFP can get a complete picture of your finances and provide up-to-date financial and investment advice. Facet uses video conferencing to meet with members all over the United States, rather than focusing on in-person interactions. 
 
Instead of charging a fee based on assets under management (AUM), Facet charges a flat annual fee. The fee is fixed and based on your actual needs. Fees range from $2,400 to $8,000 per year, depending on your situation and the services you receive from Facet.
 
Once you have a membership with Facet, you can get help and guidance from your dedicated CFP on items that are covered by your fee. This can include learning how to invest money, managing your portfolio, creating plans to help you pay for your child’s college, or planning your retirement income. Regular meetings with your CFP can help you stay on track or tweak your plan as needed.
 
Facet offers a variety of financial planning and other services that can help you manage your money throughout your life, including:
 
For the most part, Facet is available to anyone who can pay the flat fee. However, Facet is likely best suited for young professionals and couples who have a growing net worth. For those building their investments but unable to meet the account minimums imposed by other full-service firms, Facet can also be a viable choice.
 
Those who have more complicated situations can also benefit from Facet since they might be able to save on fees due to the flat rate. Facet fees top out at $8,000 per year, depending on which services members access.  
In general, Facet could potentially be ideal for those with a net worth of at least $70,000. It could also be a good option for those anticipating or going through major life milestones, such as having a baby or saving for college. You should consider your individual situation and financial needs as you might decide to use these services, even if you don’t meet these criteria exactly. 
 


How much does Facet cost?

Facet costs between $2,400 and $8,000 per year, depending on your situation and the services you’re likely to need.



Can you trust a financial advisor?

There are good financial advisors and some that aren’t as good. In general, when looking for a financial advisor, it can make sense to find someone with credentials, as well as someone who’s a fiduciary. A fiduciary is required to make recommendations that align with your best interests.



What is Facet's fee structure?

Facet operates using a flat fee. Many other advisors, including robo-advisors, charge fees based on a percentage of assets under management.



Is Facet worth it?

Whether Facet is worth it depends on your goals and situation. If you’re looking for full-service help with comprehensive financial planning and have a growing net worth, Facet can be worth it.




 Facet costs between $2,400 and $8,000 per year, depending on your situation and the services you’re likely to need. There are good financial advisors and some that aren’t as good. In general, when looking for a financial advisor, it can make sense to find someone with credentials, as well as someone who’s a fiduciary. A fiduciary is required to make recommendations that align with your best interests. Facet operates using a flat fee. Many other advisors, including robo-advisors, charge fees based on a percentage of assets under management. Whether Facet is worth it depends on your goals and situation. If you’re looking for full-service help with comprehensive financial planning and have a growing net worth, Facet can be worth it. 
Facet offers an in-depth onboarding process, which helps them get a feel for your goals and financial situation. Here’s how to get started with Facet:
 
While Facet is certainly worth considering if you’re interested in a holistic financial planning solution, you might decide it isn’t the right fit for you. There are alternative wealth-building options available, including some of the best brokerage accounts:
 
Betterment is a robo-advisor that can help you build and manage your investment portfolio. It also offers cash management products. Betterment offers two pricing tiers based on AUM: 0.25% for accounts with less than $100,000 and 0.40% for accounts with more than $100,000. There are CFP services for those in the higher asset tier, as well as additional financial advice packages available for a flat fee.
 
If you have a smaller portfolio, it might cost less to use Betterment. Although you won’t have the same access to customized plans or a dedicated CFP professional.
 
Like other robo-advisors, Wealthfront manages your portfolio and charges fees based on the size of your account. Wealthfront only has one fee for management. You’ll pay 0.25%, regardless of your account balance. Additionally, it provides access to a 529 account to save for college, IRAs to save for retirement, and cash management products for shorter-term savings. Wealthfront has a $500 account minimum to get started, but it also offers automated tools designed to help you budget for important milestones like buying a home.
 
Wealthfront can be a good choice for someone who wants lower fees and isn’t worried about ongoing personalized help.
 
If you’re still looking for additional low-cost investing options, check out our picks for the best investment apps.
 
        Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card
       3% cash back Sponsored Sign up for our free, 5-minute daily email that TIME Magazine named as one of the top personal finance newsletters. 

        By submitting this form you agree to receive emails from FinanceBuzz and to the privacy
          policy and terms

 Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities. FinanceBuzz has partnered with CardRatings for our coverage of credit card products. FinanceBuzz and CardRatings may receive a commission from card issuers. FinanceBuzz is an informational website that provides tips, advice, and recommendations to help you make financial decisions. We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz is not a financial institution and does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.