
Everything you need to know about DC’s cherry blossom trees and the National Cherry Blossom Festival can be found right here.

 Nothing signifies the arrival of spring in the nation's capital quite like the blooming of the cherry blossom trees and the National Cherry Blossom Festival to celebrate the occasion. Visitors descend upon Washington, DC each year to admire the 3,000-plus trees. The Festival is full of events that honor American and Japanese cultures and represents a close bond forged between the two countries that began with Tokyo Mayor Yukio Ozaki’s gift of the trees back in 1912. Speaking of trees: you can assist in the effort to preserve and protect DC's iconic cherry trees through the Trust for the National Mall's Adopt a Cherry Tree campaign.The National Park Service offers the latest information regarding peak bloom date predictions.
The National Cherry Blossom Festival offers an array of celebratory events that feature local businesses and provide a riveting showcase for Japanese culture.
For those who wish to celebrate from afar, enthusiasts can see the cherry blossoms via the live BloomCam.   Peak bloom is the magical period when visitors can see the cherry blossoms in full bloom. The peak bloom dates are defined as the days when 70 percent of the trees surrounding the Tidal Basin have opened their buds, creating an unforgettable sea of pink and white. The National Park Service (NPS) is responsible for measuring the growth of the buds of the trees and provides a prediction of when peak bloom will arrive each year. On average, peak bloom occurs between the last week of March and the first week of April, but the date changes year-to-year. For instance, 2024’s peak bloom occurred on March 17 due to early warm weather, while 2018's bloom did not happen until April 5 due to a cold winter. The blooming period, when 20 percent of the blossoms are open before the petals and leaves fall, can last up to 14 days, depending on weather conditions. Just remember that "forecasting peak bloom is almost impossible more than 10 days in advance," according to NPS. The best viewing of the cherry blossom trees typically lasts four to seven days after peak bloom begins, but the blossoms can last for up to two weeks under ideal conditions. For more tips to help plan your visit, make sure to check out our list of things you need to know about the National Cherry Blossom Festival. Please do your part in helping to protect the National Mall and the cherry blossoms. We kindly remind you to enjoy the blossoms, but never pick them (it’s against the law). The National Cherry Blossom Festival isn't just a celebration of the blossoms—it's a four-week-long cultural festival held across the city. Components of the Festival include the Opening Ceremony, Art in Bloom, the Blossom Kite Festival, Petalpalooza, the annual Parade, Sakura Matsuri - Japanese Street Festival and the annual Pink Tie Party fundraiser. There are many great ways to get to the stunning cherry blossom trees surrounding the Tidal Basin. The DC Circulator's National Mall route makes stops directly on the Tidal Basin at the Jefferson and Martin Luther King, Jr. memorials, as well as other popular sites near the cherry blossoms. If you're taking the Metro, use the Blue, Orange or Silver lines and exit at the Smithsonian Metro stop. From there, it’s a 10-15 minute walk to the Tidal Basin Welcome Area, located at 1501 Maine Avenue SW. Via Metrobus, the 32 and 36 routes will drop you at the National Mall, near the Washington Monument. A 10-minute walk south will bring you to the Tidal Basin Welcome Area & ANA Stage. For more information about getting to the blossoms, check out our guide to reaching the most-popular cherry blossom spots in DC, as well as less-populated areas for blossom revelry. 
Fairmont Washington, DC, Georgetown
 Celebrate springtime by checking out these National Cherry Blossom Festival partner hotels as well as spring packages, deals and discounts at some of the city's best places to stay. In addition to these hotel packages, many DC-area hotels offer special cherry blossom-themed deals and discounts, which may include a free spring-inspired cocktail, chocolates, meals or more. Make sure to check out all the places to stay in Washington, DC.                   
      More About DC
   
      Your Guide to Visiting Planet Word Museum
   
      5 Reasons to Enjoy Theatre Week 2024 in Washington, DC
   
      Things to Do This Week
   Become a DC Insider: