Advertisement Advertisement 
News
 
              By              Margaret Montgomery               on September 29, 2023              
Estimated reading time: 3 minutes  
                  By                  Margaret Montgomery                   on September 29, 2023                  
Estimated reading time: 3 minutes  If you use a fintech for banking or investing, Interac e-Transfers might get a bit easier to send and receive. Find out why. Advertisement You’ve probably used an Interac e-Transfer to pay a friend back for dinner, split the rent with a roommate, send birthday money to your nephew or put money into your account at another bank. This service is quick and convenient if you’re a customer at a major bank or a credit union—but if you sign up with a neobank or fintech, your e-transfer options are generally more limited. You might not get the same nearly instant processing time or be able to transfer as much money as you want to.  Advertisement Advertisement That may change in the near future. On Sept. 29, Interac announced that it is expanding access to e-Transfer services among different types of financial institutions in Canada. Wealthsimple is the first of these to be “provisionally accepted.” Before the announcement, only federally licensed financial institutions (like banks), provincially licensed credit unions and some challenger banks were direct participants in Interac e-Transfer services, says Will Keliehor, Interac’s chief commercial officer.  Previously, Wealthsimple accessed the Interac e-Transfer system indirectly through a banking partner, an arrangement that meant higher operating costs for the company and e-Transfer limitations for clients. Wealthsimple was able to get the settlement time (the time it takes for money to arrive in your account and be ready to use) down to 30 minutes or less, but now it will be able to offer clients near-instant settlements.  “Becoming a direct participant is game-changing,” says Hanna Zaidi, chief compliance officer of payments at Wealthsimple. “It means we can offer our clients a better experience when moving their money—things like higher transfer limits and faster settlement times—which are important factors when making investment decisions.” She adds that Wealthsimple clients “want to use e-transfer to fund their accounts because it’s fast and seamless.”  Other methods, such as bank transfers, for example, can take a few business days to complete.  Besides using Interac e-Transfer to move money around, customers can also fund their Wealthsimple Trade self-directed investing accounts or Wealthsimple Crypto accounts by transferring part of the balance from their Wealthsimple Save or Wealthsimple Cash accounts.  No. Wealthsimple is a financial services company and securities dealer with more than three million Canadian clients. Although Wealthsimple isn’t a bank, some of its accounts are protected by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDIC) through partnerships with federally regulated Canadian financial institutions. The Wealthsimple Cash account (which is a hybrid chequing and savings account) has three times the average CDIC insurance coverage, at up to $300,000. The account doesn’t charge any fees for the newly improved e-transfer service, and allows clients to get 1% cash back that can be automatically reinvested in stocks or crypto when they use the Wealthsimple card. (Read our review of Wealthsimple Cash.)    A post shared by Wealthsimple (@wealthsimple)   “High banking fees, unnecessarily long payment and asset transfer times, increasing interest rates, and the rising cost of living are taking a toll on Canadians,” says Zaidi. “Which is why we’re building products and solutions that offer them greater value and help put their money to work.” (Learn more about how fintechs and neobanks are changing banking in Canada.) Interac’s announcement means that Canadians may soon be able to expect the customer experience at fintechs to be more like that at a bank or a credit union. “It’s a great step forward towards adding more competition,” Zaidi says.  Keliehor says it’s a win-win situation for fintechs and customers. “Interac wants to move at the speed of fintechs because they’re constantly innovating the digital economy,” he says. “And that’s good for all Canadians, because it gives faster access to products that can add value in people’s lives.”  Advertisement Advertisement                                           Share this article

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Share on Linkedin

Share on Reddit

Share on Email
 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *  

  Δ Advertisement 
Mortgages
 Created By Ratehub 
Investing
 These 25 books, chosen by MoneySense contributors, money experts and finfluencers, will help you invest better, retire earlier, find... 
FHSA
 Sponsored By Fidelity Investments Canada ULC 
Credit Cards
 Created By Credit Canada 
Shopping
 From farm to table: How extreme weather affects prices along the food supply chain. 
Ask MoneySense
 Presented By MCAN Wealth 
Save
 Presented By MCAN Wealth 
Retirement
 Presented By MCAN Wealth 
Investing
 Presented By MCAN Wealth 
GICs
 Presented By MCAN Wealth MoneySense, Canada’s personal finance resource for 25 years, is owned by Ratehub Inc., but remains editorially independent. The editorial team works to provide accurate and up-to-date information, but details can change and mistakes could happen. We encourage readers to do their own research, practice critical thinking and compare their options, especially before making any financial decisions. If you read something you feel is incorrect or misleading, please contact us. MoneySense is not responsible for content on external sites that we may link to in articles. We aim to be transparent when we receive compensation for advertisements and links on our site (read our full advertising disclosure for more details). Advertisers/partners are not responsible for and do not influence our editorial content. Our advertisers/partners are also not responsible for the accuracy of the information on our site. Be sure to review product information as well as provider terms and conditions on their sites. (Products and offers may vary for Quebec.) The content provided on our site is for information only; it is not meant to replace advice from a professional.  © 2002-2024 Ratehub Inc. All rights reserved