
  A HEXHAM-BASED business could be a record holder. 
 
  We Buy Cars Hexham has a gigantic Santa hat on its van, measuring around two metres in height.
 
  The business, which buys, sells and sources cars, bikes and tractors, has said it has been approached by an ex-judge from the Guinness World Records.
 
  The clever marketing tool by John James, of Allendale, who owns the business which also carries out recoveries, and partner Elizabeth, has brought seasonal joy to the streets of Tynedale. 
 
  He said: "When I've been driving round, and I also drive round with a Santa hat on, I can see people are elated, pointing at it and taking photos. 
 
  "I didn't think it would be as impactful as what it is - something as simple as decorating a van. 
 
  "I was going around with a canoe a couple of weeks ago, I want to make it a running theme to have something on the roof rack so it's something fun for the community."
 
  Computer science graduate John, who also runs sister company We Buy Scrap, said there were no current records for hats on vehicles.
 
  The current record for the tallest hat is 4.8 metres and the record for the tallest stack of hats worn while unicycling is 1.22 metres.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.