 Discover the top financial advisors of August 2024. Compare options like SmartAsset and Money Pickle to find expert advice. Choosing the right financial advisor can make a significant difference in how effectively you manage and grow your finances. By opting for online financial advisors, you get to pick the best of the best from anywhere in the country. This way, you can rest assured that your finances are in good hands. Working with an online professional saves you time from in-person meetings, eliminating travel time and waiting in the lobby. Benzinga has compiled a list of financial advisors to help you find your ideal advisor and build wealth. Look at some top contenders for the best financial advisors this year. SmartAsset makes it easy to compare the best financial planners. Provide some basic information about how much you have to invest, what your goals are and how you want to communicate with your advisor to find ideal pairings. You’ll then see a list of advisors that match your criteria to interview and meet with to ensure your finances are off to a great start. Why We Picked It: By using Smartasset, you can easily find, compare, and select the right advisor to help you reach your financial goals. Take the stress out of managing your finances and let Smartasset guide you to the perfect financial advisor for you. Find a financial advisor who can help you get on the right path toward retirement, investing, handling life events and more. Money Pickle lets you input important details about your finances or questions and get paired with a financial advisor. The initial video call is free because the advisor covers the expense. Then you can decide whether to keep working with the advisor after that. All advisors on the platform must be in good standing and have five years of experience. Money Pickle screens each advisor to ensure they are a good fit for its clients. Why We Picked It: Money Pickle offers a user-friendly platform that makes financial planning more convenient and accessible. With free video consultations, no pressure to commit, and convenient call scheduling, you can take the first step towards securing your financial future with confidence. Enjoy a personalized approach to retirement planning. Get paired with prescreened licensed financial advisors in the USA. Instead of focusing only on your portfolio size and location, Datalign uses various factors to help you find the financial advisor that will best meet your needs. Instead of creating a list, Datalign provides the top financial advisor based on your unique financial factors to reduce the burden of making your selection. Once you have been paired with a financial advisor, you will start with a free consultation to discuss your financial situation and goals. This initial consultation is a great opportunity to get to know your advisor, ask any questions you may have, and ensure that they are the right fit for you. Why We Picked It: With Datalign, you can rest assured that you will be connected with a financial advisor who has the expertise and experience to help you achieve your financial goals. Empower is the strongest in two areas: hands-off investors and those looking for tax optimization. While the fees are somewhat high and will reduce the total ROI from your investments, the money is worth it if you have the assets to place under Empower’s watchful eye. If your assets are $100,000-$250,000, you’ll have a team of advisors. Once your assets exceed $250,000, you’ll have dedicated advisors. Regardless, you can reach your advisors via phone during normal business hours or digitally through your dashboard. Why We Picked It: With a range of features, including tax optimization strategies, individual security selection and comprehensive portfolio management, Empower offers a comprehensive solution for managing your investments effectively. Using low-cost ETFs, Facet Wealth helps you grow your wealth through smart investments. While the flat-rate fee structure makes budgeting somewhat complex for investors, it also translates to a competitive 0.8% for those with $300,000 or more investments. Why We Picked It: With their affordable pricing, access to certified financial planners and user-friendly platform, Facet Wealth is a great option for anyone looking to take control of their financial well-being without breaking the bank. Domain Money is unique among financial advisor companies because it writes a plan based on your goals and then puts you in charge of implementing it. You can request a plan at any time that is convenient for you. Plans are customized based on the information you give Domain Money about your finances and goals. Why We Picked It: With Domain Money, you are in control of your money management without any ongoing fees. This means that you can access their platform and tools to track your financial progress, make adjustments to your plan and receive personalized recommendations without having to worry about additional costs. Charles Schwab frequently gets high ratings for customer care. And the best part is, you don’t have to pay for fees or services you don’t need. You’ll see a full breakdown of fees and commissions for working with a financial advisor based on the investment strategy that meets your goals.  Why We Picked It: With competitive management fees, customizable services and a strong focus on customer service, Charles Schwab sets the bar high for what a financial company should be.  If you’re unsure where to start investing but want a simple platform that keeps you in control, Wealthsimple is a wise choice. This is one of the best financial advisor firms for robo-investing. That means you can set up your account, provide some basic information and allow the tool to make investment decisions based on that information. Why We Picked It: Wealthsimple is a top choice for investors looking to incorporate ESG principles into their investment strategy. With its automated investing platform, access to fractional shares, user-friendly interface, and no commissions on trades, Wealthsimple makes it easy for investors to build a sustainable and impactful investment portfolio. Playbook is one of the top advisory firms for tax advantages. It will help you grow your money while paying less in taxes by helping you learn where to put your money and what actions you should take in each account. Playbook focuses on helping you increase returns while lowering your taxes to maximize the money that you have.  Why We Picked It: Playbook is an excellent option for new investors looking to start investing with a clear plan in mind. By investing based on long and short-term goals, utilizing automated financial decision-making and maximizing tax advantages, investors can set themselves up for success in the world of investing. *Banking products and services are provided by Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. The Ellevest Spend and Save accounts are FDIC-insured up to $250,000 per depositor through Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC. **Domestic ATM transaction fees will be reimbursed if a payroll direct deposit has been received within the prior 30 days of the ATM transaction settlement. International ATM withdrawal fee of $5 will apply. ***If you opt in to the Roundup Program for debit card purchases, each settled (i.e. fully completed) purchase transaction made with your Ellevest Debit Card will be rounded up to the nearest whole U.S. dollar. The Roundup amount will be transferred from your Spend account to your Save account. Foreign purchases are rounded up to the nearest whole dollar after the purchase is converted to U.S. dollars. ATM withdrawals and transactions in whole US dollars, e.g. $20.00 are excluded from the Roundup program. If, at the time of settlement of a purchase, your Ellevest Spend Account has insufficient available funds to cover the full amount of the Roundup transfer, the Roundup Transfer will not be made. If a purchase is canceled or reversed for any reason (including disputes), the corresponding Roundup Transfer will not be reversed.  You can opt out of the Roundup Program at any time.   If you’re looking for the best investment advisors for women, Ellevest is a smart choice. The platform is designed to help women navigate the unique complexities they face when investing. Whether you’re headed toward retirement, navigating a career, or needing advice about buying a second home, Ellevest’s advisors can guide you. The advisory team comprises all women who help bring clients perspective and a sense of ease. Why We Picked It: With its user-friendly platform, no minimum investment requirement, access to financial planners, and private wealth management services, Ellevest provides a comprehensive solution for women looking to grow their wealth and secure their financial future. It's important to consider your current financial situation and what aspects of your financial life you might need help with. Consider whether you need financial guidance to set up long-term systems or help to reach specific goals.  Are you planning for retirement and wonder whether you're saving enough? Are you dreaming of a second home and want to know if it's possible with your current income? In these cases and others, a financial advisor can help you align your financial actions to specific goals. Familiarize yourself with the various types of financial advisors. But before choosing to work with a professional, check your investment professional with the SEC to ensure they are in good standing. You can choose from various financial services, including investment advice, budgeting, retirement planning, tax planning, estate planning, and more. Financial advisors can offer diverse services to meet specific needs or holistic services. The cost of hiring financial advisors can vary based on the fee structure. They may charge a flat monthly fee, a percentage of assets under management (AUM) or another fee structure. Research and compare the credentials and qualifications of several financial advisors before hiring one. Look for a financial advisor with a fiduciary responsibility to ensure they have your best interests in mind. Read financial advisor ratings to learn from other customers’ experiences. Be sure to speak with the financial advisor and take advantage of a free initial consultation to understand if the financial advisor is a good fit. When selecting a financial advisor, you will want to ask them about: If you decide that working with a financial advisor is not right, consider one of these alternatives. Financial advisors can offer valuable insight and strategies to optimize tax savings, set up long-term investment accounts and plan for short- and long-term goals. You can help protect your family's future and retirement with the right advice. Review the top wealth managers by performance to find a good fit based on your needs. All the options above offer personalized solutions at various price points to take you from where you are to your next goals. Take the first step toward financial security and schedule a consultation with one of these trusted advisors today. The top financial advisory firms are Vanguard, Charles Schwab and Fidelity Investments. Look to your community for leaders in your area or select SmartAsset, Money Pickle or Datalign as an online financial advisor. Whether paying for a financial advisor depends on your financial skill set, understanding of investments, and time you can devote to the process. If you can’t devote the time or don’t have the expertise, a financial advisor is well worth it. The country’s leading financial firms, including Vanguard, Charles Schwab, and Fidelity Investments, offer the best financial advice. The best place to look for a financial advisor is your network. Ask friends, family, and colleagues who they use and how happy they’ve been with the results of their work with the professional. Financial advisors determine their fees based on the assets they manage on your behalf. It’s often based on a percentage of the funds they oversee, ranging from 0.25% to 1% of assets under management annually. Your financial advisor should have a CFP or CFA designation, which shows they’ve completed the necessary professional training to provide financial advice. Working with a financial advisor can involve fees. These include annual fees charged by the mutual funds or other investments your advisor recommends. These fees can be up to 2% of the value you invest in these areas, but your advisor has likely recommended them because the ROI outweighs the fees. You should plan to meet with your advisor at a minimum once a year. However, you might meet more frequently to check in on how you’re tracking toward goals, tax liability, etc. Many financial advisors do have a minimum investment requirement to get started. However, you can likely find one willing to work with you based on the specific amount you can invest. Yes, a financial advisor will tailor your investments to meet your goals and risk tolerance. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates financial advisors. If your financial advisor is a fee-only firm, they likely act in your best interest since they are paid only through your annual fee, not commissions, for selling specific products or securities. Rebekah Brately is an investment writer passionate about helping people learn more about how to grow their wealth. She has more than 12 years of writing experience, focused on technology, travel, family and finance. Her work has been published in Benzinga, Hearst Bay Area, FreightWaves and Dallas Observer publications.