Wealthsimple co-founder Rudy Adler has stepped away from his operational role of CMO. New addition Rubina Singh will take over as CMO. At the same time, Wealthsimple has switched up its CTO. Diederik van Liere is joining Wealthsimple as its new CTO while Karney Li is moving away from that role to chief architect. Adler will continue to act as a co-founder and advisor to Wealthsimple. Adler co-founded Weathsimple with Michael Katchen and Brett Huneycutt in 2014. Adler and Katchen previously worked together at 1000memories, a photo digitization startup, which Ancestry.com acquired in 2012 for an undisclosed amount. Before becoming head of brand with Wealthsimple, Adler also worked at Wieden+Kennedy, the ad agency for Nike, and where he worked on branding campaigns for Levi’s, Apple and Target. Singh will now be responsible for heading Wealthsimple’s marketing team. Most recently, she led brand and growth teams at several large organizations, including marketing at Arcadia and Jumpstart, as well as consumer marketing at Pinterest. As CTO, van Liere will lead the startup’s engineering and data teams and is tasked with continuing to scale and strengthen Wealthsimple’s platform.  RELATED: Wealthsimple becomes first regulated Canadian crypto platform to offer staking Van Liere has been part of Wealthsimple’s engineering leadership team since 2018.  “Rubina and Diederik are highly experienced industry leaders and I’m thrilled to welcome them to Wealthsimple’s executive team,” said Katchen, CEO, Wealthsimple. “Both will help drive the company forward as we continue breaking down barriers in financial services through smart investing tools designed to help Canadians build long-term wealth.” Wealthsimple offers a suite of financial products across managed investing, do-it-yourself trading, cryptocurrency, tax filing, spending and saving. Wealthsimple claims it currently serves three million Canadians and holds over $20 billion in assets. Charles Mandel's reporting and writing on technology has appeared in Wired.com, Canadian Business, Report on Business Magazine, Canada's National Observer, The Globe and Mail, and the National Post, among many others. He lives off-grid in Nova Scotia. 