Wealthsimple Advisor settles client privacy case with MFDA Regulators alleged the firm’s onboarding process for new reps was deficient In a settlement with the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada (MFDA), Wealthsimple Advisor Services Inc. agreed to pay a $100,000 fine and $20,000 in costs to resolve allegations that it failed to properly protect client privacy when bringing new reps onto its platform. The firm admitted that, in 2019, its process for bringing reps from other MFDA dealers and investment dealers onto its platform failed to ensure that potential clients had consented to having their confidential information shared with a related company, Wealthsimple Technologies Inc. (WSTI), which provided technology services (such as cloud-based storage and data management) to the firm. According to the settlement, when reps sought to transfer their businesses to Wealthsimple Advisor, their client data was provided to WSTI and entered into its database, and then the reps sought consent from clients to share the information. “However, neither WSTI nor the [firm] independently verified that the [rep] had obtained the consent and authorization of the clients to transfer the client information to WSTI,” the settlement noted. As a result, the firm admitted that it didn’t have adequate controls over its onboarding processes. Additionally, when one rep had trouble accessing the firm’s system, they shared their login info to their existing dealer’s client relationship management system with another rep and with WSTI staff so they could get help with the transfer — an activity that also compromised client data. With the conclusion of the settlement agreement, Wealthsimple Advisor will also complete its resignation from the MFDA, which it began in 2020. It has since wound up its operations and its membership status in the SRO. 

					Every day, get the financial news that matters in your inbox.				
 
								Venture promised outsized returns it had no way of generating, regulators allege							 
								Forex TB Ltd. took advantage of vulnerable retail investors, regulator alleged							 
								Exchange overpromised, under-delivered on clearing system replacement							 
								Much of the industry's involvement may be outside the SRO's perimeter							 
								Department of Finance proposals would also reduce the number of people who must file a bare trust return, starting in 2025							 
								Clarifications concerning the capital dividend account are welcomed by tax practitioners							 
								Two sectors made 53% of all corporate capital gains in Canada between 2018 and 2022, data shows							 
								Settlement hearing with Royal Mutual Funds scheduled for Oct. 15							 ©

	Newcom Media Inc. 
 We use cookies to make your website experience better. By accepting this notice and continuing to browse our website you confirm you accept our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy. read more >>