 Glencore Technology has announced that it will be supplying technology to a new waste recovery plant for metal fractions of e-scrap being developed in Spain. The recycling facility is to be built in the city of Huelva by the company Atlantic Copper, which is investing €310m in the project. Atlantic Copper is a subsidiary of the US company Freeport-McMorRan, the world's second largest copper producer and the largest producer of molybdenum.  Glencore Technology explained that the project would recover metals including copper, gold, silver, platinum, palladium, tin and nickel from waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) using its "Isacycle" technology. When it becomes operational in the first quarter of 2025, the "CirCular" plant is to have the capacity to process 60,000 tonnes of e-material per year. Works are scheduled to begin this month, the metal and mineral processing technology company said....  
            © 2023 EUWID Europäischer Wirtschaftsdienst GmbH | All Rights Reserved.
         Copyright notice The individual articles, tables and other contents published by EUWID are protected by copyright and are provided exclusively for the client's own use and the use of the client's employees. In the absence of a more extensive licence agreement, only one copy may be printed for circulation at a single business location designated by the client. Digital distribution of EUWID contents, especially by intranet or by e-mail, within a company, throughout a group of companies, or outside a company is not permitted and constitutes an infringement of copyright law. Read more in our FAQ.
         Service Contact We welcome your questions, feedback and tips Customer Service+49 7224 9397-572servicenoSpam@GO-AWAYeuwid.de Editorial Team+49 7224 9397-0recyclingnoSpam@GO-AWAYeuwid.com You want to be always up to date? Get the latest news about developments and trends in the industry sent to you once a week free of charge by newsletter. Sign up for our newsletter  
                    © 2024 EUWID Europäischer Wirtschaftsdienst GmbH | All Rights Reserved.
                 Copyright notice The individual articles, tables and other contents published by EUWID are protected by copyright and are provided exclusively for the client's own use and the use of the client's employees. In the absence of a more extensive licence agreement, only one copy may be printed for circulation at a single business location designated by the client. Digital distribution of EUWID contents, especially by intranet or by e-mail, within a company, throughout a group of companies, or outside a company is not permitted and constitutes an infringement of copyright law. Read more in our FAQ.
                 We use cookies and external services on our website. Some are necessary, others enhance your user experience or help us improve this website. You can change your privacy settings any time by clicking privacy policy. Necessary cookies are required for the correct functioning of the website. Content from video and social media platforms is blocked by default. If access to these services is accepted, separate consent is no longer required when using them. You can find more information on the individual external services in our privacy policy.