There are 12 enigmas to try and solve in AC: Mirage. Assassin’s Creed Mirage isn’t just about Basim’s origin story and his pledge to assassinate the Order of the Ancients. There’s a hell of a lot more to be doing amidst this relatively short stealth experience, and that includes tracking down collectables, petting cats, and unraveling Tales of Baghdad. One such collectable you may be on the hunt for is enigmas. These are fun little riddles, poems, and drawings that will hint at where you can find treasure across 9th Century Baghdad, such as outfit dyes and talismans. Enigmas are well worth seeking out. Not only do they net you rewards for solving them, but they’re genuinely fun and will take you to parts of Mirage you may not have seen before! Without further ado, here’s all enigma locations solutions in Assassin’s Creed Mirage. For more on Assassin's Creed Mirage and it's collectibles, take a look at where to find all ten Mysterious Shards, and where to find all outfits. 
Assassin's Creed Mirage
 
PS4, 
            PS5, 
            Xbox One, 
            Xbox Series X/S, 
            PC
 
        Sign in and unlock a world of features
       
        Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!
       

Where to find the Ivory Coin's Brooch in Assassin's Creed Mirage                    
 

Best weapons in Assassin's Creed Mirage                    
 

Assassin's Creed Mirage walkthrough & guides                    
 

Assassin’s Creed Mirage Solve This Problem Quickly For Me enigma solution                    
 

Assassin’s Creed Mirage "A Challenge" enigma solution                    
 

Assassin’s Creed Mirage Just Rewards enigma solution                    
 

Assassin’s Creed Mirage Joy Beneath Weeping Palms enigma solution                    
 

Assassin’s Creed Mirage A Holy Hoard enigma solution                    
 VG247 is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.