For Resource and Waste Professionals Home / News / Environment and Energy / Scottish government to consult on banning disposable vapes Environment and Energy, Legislation and Regulation, Scotland, Sustainability Yousaf told the Scottish Parliament: “I hear too often about how common vaping is among our young people. In the next year, we will take action to reduce vaping – particularly among children. “I’m pleased to announce that this government will consult on curbing the sale of disposable single-use vapes, including consulting on an outright ban.” The announcement follows a review from Zero Waste Scotland (ZWS) on the environmental impact of disposable vapes. The review, published on 30 June, sets out nine policy options for the Scottish government which includes banning the sale of disposable single-use vapes. This government will consult on curbing the sale of disposable single-use vapes. The review estimated that 800 to 1000 tonnes of single-use e-cigarette packaging and materials are discarded in Scotland per year. ZWS’s report estimates, that in the year ending January 2023, 10.8% of the adult population in Scotland use disposable vapes, which is 543,000 people. Of disposable vape users, 9% were under 16 and 14% were under 18. The report highlights recent vaping data from the University of Glasgow suggests vaping is now more common than smoking cigarettes – 18% of adolescents reported using e-cigarettes at least once. The Scottish first minister also said the SNP will “continue to promote” the circular economy.  Lee Marshall, Policy and External Affairs Director, CIWM, commented: “With little established recycling routes for single-use vapes, they are ending up being littered or in residual waste. This not only threatens the natural environment, but presents a significant safety risk for waste collection crews, vehicles, and sorting infrastructure. “There are statistics that show 48% of all waste fires in the UK each year are caused by lithium-ion batteries and a significant proportion of lithium batteries are used in vapes. Despite containing substantial quantities of this critical raw material, the products have typically not been designed for recycling, a major oversight on behalf of the manufacturers. An outright ban on single-use vapes may well be the right way forward. “We are aware of the arguments that vapes help established smokers quit cigarettes, however, the resource management aspects of their use cannot be ignored, and something has to change. An outright ban on single-use vapes may well be the right way forward. “The Policy & Technical team will be working with CIWM members to submit a consultation response which will need to consider the merits of other approaches such as extended producer responsibility. “In such a scenario, vape manufacturers and distributors would be responsible for funding collection schemes, and modulated fees could be used as a mechanism to promote better design and recyclability. In the meantime, more should be done by manufacturers and retailers to provide recycling collection points as required under the WEEE regulations.”  Tagged disposable vapes, Scottish Government  August 15, 2024 August 14, 2024 August 13, 2024 August 19, 2024 20th August 2024 coffee pods / HWRCs / local authorities 19th August 2024 E-Waste / Material Focus / WEEE 16th August 2024 packaging / plastic Circular is the sustainability media brand brought to you by CIWM CIWM empowers professionalism across the resources sector Got a story for us? Contact the Circular team Advertising with Circular can help you reach your audience Designed and built by CPL We use cookies to give you the best experience and to learn about your use of our site for advertising and analytics purposes. Please continue if you are happy with this or view our Cookie policy to find out more. Change your cookie settings. This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is temporarily stored in your browser and helps our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. More information about our Cookie Policy Strictly necessary cookies allow core website functionality and the website cannot be used properly without them. These cookies include session cookies and persistent cookies. Session cookies keep track of your current visit and how you navigate the site. They only last for the duration of your visit and are deleted from your device when you close your browser. Persistent cookies last after you’ve closed your Internet browser and enable our website to recognise you as a repeat visitor and remember your actions and preferences when you return. Third party cookies include performance cookies and targeting cookies.  Performance cookies collect information about how you use a website, e.g. which pages you go to most often, and if you get error messages from web pages. These cookies don’t collect information that identifies you personally as a visitor, although they might collect the IP address of the device you use to access the site.  Targeting cookies collect information about your browsing habits. They are usually placed by advertising networks such as Google. The cookies remember that you have visited a website and this information is shared with other organisations such as media publishers. Keeping these cookies enabled helps us to improve our website and display content that is more relevant to you and your interests across the Google content network. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!