The soft to the touch cardigan has shoppers saying it is ideal for the colder weather. It is almost that time of year to be snapping up some extra layers to keep you warm from the chilly autumn weather. Luckily, Marks and Spencer has you covered with the Recycled Blend V-Neck Button Front Cardigan that is currently trending among eager fashion fans - and it can be bought in a few different autumnal colours. Priced at £27.50 each, these soft to the touch cardigans have currently managed to amass a 4.6 out of five star rating on the high street retailer's website, as many shoppers rush to pair them with all their outfits for the colder weather. The new season staple has been hailed as a "stylish choice for the colder months" that can be bought online in four different colours - grey marl, black, light natural and faded khaki. Sizes range from an extra small to an extra large, depending on the colourway you buy.  Designed in a comfortable regular fit, with contrast button fastenings and cosy long sleeves, this autumnal knit also features a bit of stretch for a flexible feel. The knit also features a stylish and cosy ribbed detailing along the cuffs and shoulders for a neat finish. With almost all positive reviews on the M&S website, the "gorgeous" Recycled Blend V-Neck Button Front Cardigan has been hailed by shoppers who say that it is not just good for colder weather, but pretty much every season.  One five-star review read: "Really pleased with this cardigan. I have been looking for a replacement to an old, but very well worn black cardigan. It's has a lovely soft texture and for me personally, just the right length. Will literally go with anything." It's been an unpredictable sort of summer, with more rain and thunderstorms on the way for parts of Scotland. Which is exactly why shoppers are rushing out to Marks and Spencer for the Stormwear Ultra Waterproof Hooded Parka from the retailer's Goodmove collection. The parks ia available in three colours - silver grey, black and dark khaki. Crafted from the brand's innovative Stormwear technology, this waterproof jacket has been described as "perfect for summer rain". Described by M&S as "selling fast" online, this parka is still available to buy in sizes from a UK 6 through to 24. The regular-fit extra layer features a zip-through design with a flattering toggle at the waist that allows you to adjust the fit. There are also extra adjustable fastenings at the cuffs and hood provide further extra protection from rain.  Meanwhile, the "breathable" and "lightweight" fabric of the Goodmove parka means that it can be worn easily over your favourite summer dresses, and even your gym wear without causing you to overheat. Secure pockets also mean that you can keep all your smaller essentials safe while outdoors. With a near perfect 4.9 rating based on multiple reviews from shoppers, the Stormwear Ultra Waterproof Hooded Parka has been praised by fashion fans who say that it is "stylish" and also "great" for the unseasonal colder weather. One ecstatic review read: "Perfect for summer rain! Great coat, love the length, most rain jackets leave you with soaking wet trousers! Good hood yet stylish and lightweight." Another M&S fan wrote: "Great waterproof coat for unpredictable summer showers or colder weather with a jumper." Shoppers can purchase the Goodmove Stormwear Ultra Waterproof Hooded Parka from M&S for £109 here. Another reviewer said: "Gorgeous little cardigan, seems to go with everything! So soft and a beautiful shape. Looks good open or buttoned up as a jumper. Took on summer hols as a little throw on for cooler weather, also think will transition and be wearable in all seasons. Great job M&S." A third added: "This is for the colder weather, a lovely cardigan sits right on the shoulders so looks good in the length.  One shopper has knocked a star off in their review after they noticed that the cardigan's material "bobbles". They wrote: "Nice cardigans (I’ve bought the natural and grey). On the larger side, but that’s good for me. Dropped a star as they bobble a bit. Not washed it yet." If you need to stock up on some extra layers for the colder weather, then you can also purchase the Women's Balloon Sleeve Button Through Rib Cardigan for £20 from Boohoo. Alternatively, the Vero Moda button through cardigan in burgundy red costs just £24 from ASOS. Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond. Sign up to our daily newsletter here.