The retailer's new range includes 400 products from 10 salon and professional brands. Boots has launched a brand new premium haircare range today - and it features over 400 new products from 10 professional and salon brands. Available to shop online at Boots before dropping in stores from November, the new range from the UK's leading health and beauty retailer includes products from major brands such as Color Wow, Redken, Ouai, Pureology and more. The premium range adds to the pharmacy chain's 2,500 haircare products that you can shop now, including those from existing cult favourite brands including the likes of Philip Kingsley, Bumble and Bumble, Coco & Eve and ARKIVE. Boot's latest offerings covers current haircare trends, including scalp exfoliation and repair as with OUAI's Scalp & Body Scrub and Wella Professionals Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue. The premium range will provide shoppers with a variety of salon worthy products to help keep their locks healthy. This includes salon-grade shampoos and conditioners and cult-favourite styling products, masks and treatments.  That's not all as the pharmacy chain has also launched a brand new haircare hub online that provides expert haircare education, inspiration and advice. Meanwhile, an online salon locator will help customers to find their nearest salon offering professional treatments and services from popular brand L'Oreal. Summer is the ideal season to try out new fragrances, and Amazon is currently offering a massive discount on the classic Daisy by Marc Jacobs.  Usually £72.99, it's been slashed to almost half price, making it just £42.94 for a large 50ml bottle. Described as an elegant, timeless scent that unfurls with a lush floral bouquet, it's a beautiful all-round fragrance ideal for anyone to wear.  Shoppers who purchased the Marc Jacobs Perfume lavished praise on Daisy, describing it as "beautiful, sweet and woody" and remarking that it "lasts all day."   The distinctive bottle is embellished with whimsical white daisies, contributing a touch of summer fun and making it a charming vintage addition to any dressing table. One dedicated Marc Jacobs buyer said: "I have used Daisy for years and this was a good offer" while another noted, "Great value smell lasts all day." Another wrote: ""Beautiful scent on me lasts all day. People have commented how I smell nice." Don't miss out on this massive reduction. Head to Amazon to nab Daisy by Marc Jacobs at 41% off now. The retailer will also be trialling a new ‘Haircare Specialist’ role in stores before officially rolling it out to all its stores later this year. It will see the beauty crew undergo in-depth training to offer personalised expertise and impartial product advice to customers across Boots premium haircare range. Meanwhile, the retailer has also joined with independent hairdressers Live True London to launch a new salon-led retail space in Vauxhall, with Advantage card members able to get 20 percent off products and treatments at the salon until November 20. Join the Daily Record's WhatsApp community here and get the latest news sent straight to your messages. Jenna Ward, Head of Beauty Reinvention at Boots: "Our customers trust Boots, and know that we will only bring them brands and products that we truly believe in. The launch of ten new premium and professional haircare brands means we’re making the most in-demand products even more accessible and giving our customers more choice across our extensive haircare offering.  "We continue to innovate and transform our beauty offering at Boots and, with over 250,000 searches for premium haircare brands on boots.com in the last 18 months, we knew this is what our customers wanted to see from us next." Boots' premium haircare range is available online now and will launch in stores this November. Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond. Sign up to our daily newsletter here.