e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition By Keith DunlapFor MHSAA.comTRENTON – What Tom Bluhm likes about wrestling also happens to correlate perfectly into what his program at Trenton has been about as of late.“It’s one-on-one,” Bluhm said. “You can’t hide and you can’t make excuses. That’s what I’ve always liked about it.”Excuses aren’t in the vocabulary of the Trenton program that’s been presided by Bluhm for 46 seasons.Bluhm entered the 2022-23 campaign fourth on the MHSAA all-time coaching wins list for wrestling, carrying an 812-416-2 record with five seasons at Taylor Center before taking over at Trenton in the 1977-78 season.A standout during his high school wrestling days at Dearborn Fordson, Bluhm was a two-time state qualifier and an undefeated regional champion in his senior season with the Tractors. After graduating from Fordson in 1967, he went on to wrestle at Eastern Michigan University and picked up All-American honors.Last season, Trenton posted a record of 22-9, solid on the surface but incredible when considering it had only 14 wrestlers on the team and forfeited just one weight class.

Again, Bluhm and his group weren’t interested in excuses. They just forged ahead with what they had.“There’s no planning for it,” he said. “It’s just something that happens. It makes it tough to run practices. It’s not like you have a room of 30 or 40 guys where you can group them into three based on weight and get after it.”Numbers haven’t traditionally been a problem for Trenton under Bluhm, who said his 1978 team had 100 wrestlers competing for spots on varsity and 50 freshmen.In recent years, the lack of a program at the middle school level has negated opportunities to develop a feeder system, so Bluhm just hopes for the best when tryouts come around in November.Related Articles


			Trenton wrestling goes 3-2 at Pinckney tournament;  coach Tom Bluhm earns 800th career win		




			Wrestling: Bluhm earns 600th win		




			Trenton wrestling quad photo gallery		




			MHSAA winter sports start with extended basketball schedules, new wrestling weights		




			Riverview, Wyandotte Roosevelt and Trenton wrestling photo gallery		

Bluhm said it’s become an increasing scenario where athletes come out for the wrestling team who have never before wrestled in their lives.Bluhm said one example was a sophomore who came out for the team last year, quickly learned the sport and ended up winning 36 matches.“His mother supposedly called the AD last year saying he needed something to do because he was driving her crazy,” Bluhm said. “So he came out for wrestling.”Nolan Diroff, a senior who primarily wrestles in the 189-pound weight class, but has also wrestled at higher weights, said the limited number of wrestlers on the team rarely comes up as a topic.“I can’t really say that anybody has complained about not having a lot of people,” he said. “Nobody on the team complains when they get moved around in the lineup. We wrestle where Coach needs us to wrestle. We do whatever he says to try and win matches.”Diroff said in a strange way, having a limited roster has made who is on the team better wrestlers because it has forced them to be versatile athletes who can compete at multiple weights.“He’s kind of built us up to realize that and wrestle wherever he needs us,” he said. “He tries to get us as many matches as possible. It makes us better wrestlers and makes the team better.”This year, there is a slight increase in the numbers.Bluhm said there are 17 out for the team, including the first girl wrestler during his tenure.“She fits right in,” Bluhm said. “She gets in there and does everything the boys do.”Despite the struggles with numbers, Bluhm still very much gets a lot out of coaching after more than five decades.He drives a little less than an hour to Trenton and back every day from his home in Northville, and said he’s stayed at Trenton out of his love and respect not only for the kids, but their parents.“He tells a bunch of other stuff and random stories,” Diroff said. “Never ones that you really roll your eyes at. They are always enjoyable and shows you how long he’s been around.”“I enjoy coaching,” Bluhm said. “I’ve always said show me some rules, and I’ll play.” For MHSAA.com TRENTON – What Tom Bluhm likes about wrestling also happens to correlate perfectly into what his program at Trenton has been about as of late. “It’s one-on-one,” Bluhm said. “You can’t hide and you can’t make excuses. That’s what I’ve always liked about it.” Excuses aren’t in the vocabulary of the Trenton program that’s been presided by Bluhm for 46 seasons. Bluhm entered the 2022-23 campaign fourth on the MHSAA all-time coaching wins list for wrestling, carrying an 812-416-2 record with five seasons at Taylor Center before taking over at Trenton in the 1977-78 season. A standout during his high school wrestling days at Dearborn Fordson, Bluhm was a two-time state qualifier and an undefeated regional champion in his senior season with the Tractors. After graduating from Fordson in 1967, he went on to wrestle at Eastern Michigan University and picked up All-American honors. Last season, Trenton posted a record of 22-9, solid on the surface but incredible when considering it had only 14 wrestlers on the team and forfeited just one weight class. Again, Bluhm and his group weren’t interested in excuses. They just forged ahead with what they had. “There’s no planning for it,” he said. “It’s just something that happens. It makes it tough to run practices. It’s not like you have a room of 30 or 40 guys where you can group them into three based on weight and get after it.” Numbers haven’t traditionally been a problem for Trenton under Bluhm, who said his 1978 team had 100 wrestlers competing for spots on varsity and 50 freshmen. In recent years, the lack of a program at the middle school level has negated opportunities to develop a feeder system, so Bluhm just hopes for the best when tryouts come around in November. Bluhm said it’s become an increasing scenario where athletes come out for the wrestling team who have never before wrestled in their lives. Bluhm said one example was a sophomore who came out for the team last year, quickly learned the sport and ended up winning 36 matches. “His mother supposedly called the AD last year saying he needed something to do because he was driving her crazy,” Bluhm said. “So he came out for wrestling.” Nolan Diroff, a senior who primarily wrestles in the 189-pound weight class, but has also wrestled at higher weights, said the limited number of wrestlers on the team rarely comes up as a topic. “I can’t really say that anybody has complained about not having a lot of people,” he said. “Nobody on the team complains when they get moved around in the lineup. We wrestle where Coach needs us to wrestle. We do whatever he says to try and win matches.” Diroff said in a strange way, having a limited roster has made who is on the team better wrestlers because it has forced them to be versatile athletes who can compete at multiple weights. “He’s kind of built us up to realize that and wrestle wherever he needs us,” he said. “He tries to get us as many matches as possible. It makes us better wrestlers and makes the team better.” This year, there is a slight increase in the numbers. Bluhm said there are 17 out for the team, including the first girl wrestler during his tenure. “She fits right in,” Bluhm said. “She gets in there and does everything the boys do.” Despite the struggles with numbers, Bluhm still very much gets a lot out of coaching after more than five decades. He drives a little less than an hour to Trenton and back every day from his home in Northville, and said he’s stayed at Trenton out of his love and respect not only for the kids, but their parents. “He tells a bunch of other stuff and random stories,” Diroff said. “Never ones that you really roll your eyes at. They are always enjoyable and shows you how long he’s been around.” “I enjoy coaching,” Bluhm said. “I’ve always said show me some rules, and I’ll play.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group