
The three new products provide consumers with fast hair damage repair
 Wella Professionals Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue (Photo: Business Wire) Wella Professionals Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue (Photo: Business Wire)  CALABASAS, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Wella Professionals, one of the world’s leading beauty brands, is revolutionizing hair damage repair with the introduction of their Ultimate Repair Collection, now offering fast repair for legendary hair. The collection includes Ultimate Repair Shampoo, Ultimate Repair Conditioner and Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue – an intensive repair solution that rebuilds broken bonds inside & replenishes hairs outside barrier in only 90 seconds*. With this new collection, hair is left with added shine, strength, and smoothness – total inside-out repair. Ultimate Repair elevates daily care into an extraordinary experience.
  
Hair damage is the number-one hair concern for women. Every day, 9 out of 101 women do something that damages their hair. Until now, hair repair solutions have focused on the inside of the hair follicle. With Ultimate Repair Collection, Wella Professionals created a holistic solution to hair repair. After just one use, consumers experience repair they can see and feel.
 
“At Wella, we know hair inside out, and what damage looks like. Our expertise is reaching new heights with the launch of Wella Professionals Ultimate Repair,” said Max Morini, Wella Company Vice President, Research & Development for Wella Professionals.
 
The Ultimate Repair collection includes the ultimate game changer: Miracle Hair Rescue, a lightweight leave-in spray for intensive repair of all hair types in 90 seconds*, less than half the time of leading bond repair competitors.
 
Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue is a solution proven to repair hair damage almost instantly for 99% less breakage** and 12x smoother hair***. With color, heat styling, UV rays and pollution, hair inevitably gets damaged, but cannot regenerate itself like skin does. Wella Professionals set out to replicate how skin is able to repair itself from damage and created Miracle Hair Rescue. The breakthrough came in combining two skincare ingredients: Alpha Hydroxy Acid (AHA) and Omega-9. Together the combination repairs all hair types and textures from the inside out.
 
Ultimate Repair Miracle Hair Rescue Formulation Highlights:
 
The Ultimate Haircare Routine in Three Steps:
 
Three products designed with 140+ years of hair expertise, for all hair types. Each of them is formulated with a combination of Alpha Hydroxy Acid (AHA) and Omega-9.
 
The Ultimate Repair line can be purchased at Ulta & on Wella Store, starting April 2023. For more information visit the brand on Instagram or TikTok, or at wella.com.
 
About Wella Company
 
Wella Company is an innovative global leader in the beauty industry that combines 140+ years of earned wisdom and industry experience with the momentum of a newly minted independent entity. Now marking two years as a standalone company, Wella Company is one of the fastest-growing beauty companies in the sector. The company has a portfolio of iconic professional and retail hair, nail, and beauty tech brands including Wella Professionals, O·P·I, ghd, Briogeo, Nioxin, Sebastian Professional, and Clairol. The company serves legions of artists and owners across the professional hair and nail community in more than 100 countries. Each day, a diverse community of more than 91 million beauty lovers and industry professionals, social influencers, ambassadors, followers, employees, and customers engage with and are impacted by Wella Company products across the globe. With the belief that business can be a catalyst for positive change, Wella Company acts to enable people, organizations, and societies to collectively prosper. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) is at the core of Wella Company’s purpose-led agenda. Sustainability and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion are fundamental to who we are, how we operate and how we support the industry and communities we serve. Wella Company is building the best beauty company in the industry, ensuring that when the industry thrives, we thrive. And as we make progress on our agenda to care for our planet and leave a positive impact on society, we will become a champion for change whose legacy will be worthy of our iconic history. For more information on Wella Company, visit www.wellacompany.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Instagram.
 
* When using ULTIMATE REPAIR Step 3
** When using ULTIMATE REPAIR Step 3. Instrumental test versus non-conditioning shampoo
*** Vs. non-conditioning shampoo
1Consumer study conducted in 2022 with 1,500 panelists
2Wella Company is a member in International Collaboration on Cosmetics Safety
 
Haley Kanter
Senior Account Executive, Devries Global
hkanter@devriesglobal.com
 
Haley Kanter
Senior Account Executive, Devries Global
hkanter@devriesglobal.com
