Check your Wi-Fi router and move it now - Virgin Media warns.  With UK temperatures set to reach a scorching 32 degrees this weekend now is a good time to check your Wi-Fi. Earlier this week, Mirror Online warned our readers about the need to keep broadband equipment cool but with the weather getting even hotter, Virgin Media has also now issued some very important advice.  The Internet Service Provider (ISP) says it’s vital to keep routers cool if you want the optimal broadband performance. Getting too hot not only slows things down but can also leave you without web access. That’s due to the equipment shutting itself down to help with cooling. It’s the same process that happens when devices such as iPhones and laptops overheat with them going into a temporary lockdown to stop damage occurring to internal parts. The latest advice from Virgin includes not hiding the hub in cupboards and keeping it out of direct sunlight - this should help avoid outages and keep the internet flowing throughout the hot weekend. Here are Virgin’s top tips for the hot weekend. Show off your hub: Don’t hide the hub away, place it high, upright somewhere it has space around it.  Keep your hub cool: Much like mobile phones and laptops, always keep the hub indoors in a cool place, out of bright sunlight.  Metal music is good, metal furniture is bad: Avoid placing on top of metal furniture, this might be hot and can interfere with the hub’s connectivity.  As much as you might be tempted to, avoid moving your hub outside and make sure the below items are at least 2 metres away from your hub. • Aircon unit • Fan • Paddling pool • Baby monitors • Radio or speaker • Mirrors • Tinfoil All of the items listed above can interfere with signals and bring speeds down to a stutter. If you follow these tips you’re broadband should keep powering your steaming. Things are expected to cool down next week so the overheating issues should no longer be a problem. Get email updates with the day's biggest stories