All recommendations within this article are informed by expert editorial opinion. If you click on a link in this story we may earn affiliate revenue. READY for an upgrade? Buymobiles has slashed a Three iPhone 14 plan to a new low price. You can now pick up Apple's leading smartphone with 100GB of data for nothing upfront and only £38 per month. With a price cut of £95 on the upfront costs, we can all agree that's an amazing deal on an Apple flagship phone: unlike other plans with zero upfront costs, the contract length is still the usual 24 months. No matter which way you look at it, for a 24-month contract, this is a superb deal for one of the latest devices on the market. Amazing deals can feel hard to collect on sometimes when it requires you to go into a store or pay unexpected costs on delivery; Buymobiles has you covered there as well with free next-day delivery. There's no need to worry about the phone becoming obsolete in a few years either and, taking a quick dive into the specs of the phone, you'll understand why. For those looking for a more in-depth review, our tech editor Sean has delivered a comprehensive iPhone 14 review. Starting out strong with a large 6.1-inch super Retina XDR display means you won't struggle to read subtitles on your favourite Netflix shows. The screen is not the only thing ensuring crystal-clear quality. The phone has an A15 Bionic chip with a 5-core GPU. For those of us that are not too versed in the deeper tech terms, it provides blisteringly fast performance, and mobile gaming is extremely smooth. Complimenting the incredible display is an all-day battery life providing you with up to 20 hours of video playback without having to worry about borrowing your mate's charger. The device's durability is no joke water resistance and Apple's Ceramic Shield means it has a four-times better drop resistance than previous models, so expect your new phone to last. As with all Apple phones, the camera remains trustworthy for selfies, candids and capturing your best memories with a cinematic mode recording in 4k and up to 30fps to relive your best memories as if you were right there.  Oh, and if you look after this device, it will do its best to look after you with its vital safety features, providing crash detection and emergency SOS should you be in a pinch. The iPhone 14 will undoubtedly be knocked off the top spot in autumn by the iPhone 15. However, we still recommend this iPhone 14 plan for an assured premium level of tech, especially if you're not chasing the latest flagship every year.  It's been a fruitful month for deals on the iPhone 14 range, too. Last week we reported on the titan of an iPhone, the iPhone 14 Pro, for Amazon Prime Day.   Don't worry if you're team Android, Buymobiles has also got you covered: it's offering an excellent deal on the Google Pixel 7 for only £23 a month and £0 in upfront costs.  Discover more top deals and savings at your favourite tech retailers by heading to Sun Vouchers. Sun Vouchers is the one-stop shop where you can find hundreds of discount codes for top chains including Currys, Argos, AliExpress, and more. Visit our tech deals hub for amazing deals on phones and SIM cards. More tariffs are available in our best iPhone 14 offers roundup.  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/