Engadget has been testing and reviewing consumer tech since 2004. Our stories may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission. Read more about how we evaluate products. Lots of Apple products are discounted for Amazon Prime Day, including some of the latest generation iPads, AirPods, MacBooks and Apple Watches. It's usually a toss-up whether Apple devices will be discounted during a sale event like this; unlike Black Friday, where you're bound to save some money at most retailers, Prime Day is more unpredictable when it comes to these sought-after gadgets. This year, Prime Day deals have discounted most AirPods, a number of MacBooks and a handful of iPads, and some of the latest devices are included among them. Here are the best Prime Day Apple deals you can get. For this latest generation, Apple improved the sound quality and ANC performance, while keeping all of the conveniences that make them the best earbuds for Apple users. Apple’s second generation AirPods Pro are on sale for $199 during Prime Day. That’s a $50 discount and the best price we've seen. They are our top pick for iPhone users in our earbuds guide and represent a big improvement over the first iteration, with better noise canceling and overall improved sound. They have an excellent transparency mode that lets you listen to music while still keeping aware of the sounds around you and they pair nicely with iPhones, iPads and Macs and make good use of Siri’s assistance. We gave them an 88 in our review, noting the sound quality was both immersive and detailed, remaining clear even at lower volumes. The battery life delivered 15 minutes more than Apple’s promised six hours and the case can recharge the buds three more times. Read our full review of the Apple AirPods Pro (2nd gen) The third-gen AirPods may not have active noise cancellation like the Pros do, but they have improved sound quality and longer battery life than their predecessor. Apple's updated AirPods have been discounted to $140 for Prime Day. Released in 2021, these wireless earbuds improve upon their predecessors in nearly every way. They have better sound quality, a more comfortable design and a longer battery life. They don't have ANC like the AirPods Pro do, but it's hard to beat the third-gen AirPods at this price for iPhone users. The second-gen AirPods are a little old at this point, but they're a good option if you're on a tight budget and want a pair of wireless earbuds that integrated seamlessly with Apple devices. The second-generation AirPods are down to $89 for Prime Day. These wireless earbuds are a bit old at this point, but if you have less than $100 to send and want a pair that work seamlessly with iPhones and other Apple devices, these are a good option. They fit similarly to Apple's EarPods and they have improved wireless range. At $100 off, the AirPods Max are a much better buy during Prime Day.  Apple’s over-ear headphones, the AirPods Max are on sale for $450, which is $100 off the usual $549. They earned an 84 in our review when they came out at the end of 2020. We liked the balanced sound, solid active noise cancellation and long 20-hour battery life with a unique low-power mode that leaves the headphones in standby so they’re ready to play as soon as you put them on. The new iPad Air is the one we recommend for most people and for Prime Day it's down to $500.   The latest iteration of Apple’s iPad Air is $500 after a $100 discount. We think it’s the best iPad for most people. It came out in 2022 and features Apple’s own M1 system-on-a-chip processor and a bright and sharp 10.9-inch display. We gave it a review score of 90, noting that the updated chip and 5G capabilities (on the cellular model) make it “almost future-proof.” It’s great for playing games and watching shows, but when you pair it with accessories like a keyboard, the iPad Air can easily handle productivity tasks like writing, drawing, moderate photo editing and running work-related apps like Airtable and Slack. Plus it’s much cheaper than the iPad Pro, which may be overkill for many users. Read our full review of the iPad Air  Our favorite budget iPad does all the things a good tablet should do well and is currently $250 for Prime Day.  Apple's 9th-generation iPad is down to $250, which it's best price yet as it normally sells for $329. It’s the budget pick in our guide to the best iPads. Though it doesn’t have the thin bezels and as much accessory support as our favorite, the iPad Air, it's the most affordable way to snag an iPad. It’s a great couch companion that performs well for casual browsing, binge streaming and light gaming. Read our full review of the 9th-gen iPad This is the lowest price we've seen on the M1 MacBook Air, which is already our budget pick for MacBooks.  If you want a steep bargain on an Apple laptop, go for 2020's MacBook Air with the M1 chip. It's still a capable laptop and the 256GB base model is just $750 for Prime Day, which is the lowest price we've seen so far on the ultraportable. It’s the budget pick in our buyer’s guide to Macbooks and earned a high score of 94 in our review. The performance of the M1 chip really makes the MacBook Air M1 stand out. It’s responsive, launching apps quickly and running them effortlessly. The M1 chip is also behind the MB Air’s great battery life. We clocked 16 hours and 20 minutes of play time in our video rundown test, which should be more than enough to get you through a full day of work or study. Read our (rather glowing) review of the MacBook Air with the M1 chip Essentially a smaller iPad Air, the iPad mini is the best compact tablet you can buy as it works great for casual use and note-taking with the Apple Pencil. For Prime Day it's down to $380. A smaller tablet like the iPad mini can do a lot of what your phone can while giving you more screen real estate. For Prime Day, Apple’s diminutive slate is $380 for Prime members instead of its usual $499. We gave the mini an 89 in our review because of its fresh design and solid performance. It also pairs nicely with the second generation Apple Pencil, turning the mini into a portable digital notebook. The iPad mini comes with a 12MP ultra wide front camera that supports Center Stage, a feature that pans and zooms to keep you in frame during video calls. As for battery life, Apple estimates going for 10 hours on a charge, but we got two hours longer than that on our video run down test, and only had to charge it every other day with casual but regular use. Read our full review of the iPad Mini The Apple Pencil is a great accessory for your iPad, and make drawing and note-taking much more fun and accurate. Amazon's Prime Day sale drops the price down to $89.  The latest Apple Pencil is usually $129 but Prime Day is making it just $89. The second generation of the stylus works with the most recent models of the iPad mini, the iPad Air and both sizes of the iPad Pro. The standard iPad, even the latest iteration, still works with the first generation Apple Pencil, which is $79 right now. The Apple pencil lets you draw, sketch, take handwritten notes and even write in search boxes. The second gen pencil magnetically attaches to and charges from all compatible iPads. The Magic Keyboard helps turn an iPad Pro into a proper productivity machine. Prime Day drops the price down to $250.  The Magic Keyboard for the iPad Air or the 11-inch iPad Pro is now just $250 as opposed to the $300 list price. The keyboard wraps around and magnetically attaches to your iPad, acting as a case when closed, then when it’s time to type, your tablet “floats” above the keyboard. It’s one of our favorite iPad accessories and in our review of the iPad Pro, we noted the Magic Keyboard “provides the best typing experience” for Apple’s tablets. The keyboard for the 12.9 inch iPad Pro is also on sale and going for $299 for Prime Day. Engadget's top Bluetooth tracker for iPhone users taps into Apple's vast Find My network, zeroing in on your missing stuff. Right now Amazon is selling a four pack for under $90.  Apple’s AirTags are discounted less than $89 for the four-pack. Compared to the usual $28.50 per-tag price, that’s a decent savings. We named the AirTags the best bet for iPhone users because they tap into Apple’s vast Find My network, pinging off nearby Apple phones to anonymously locate the tracker if it's ever lost out in the city. Apple's flagship Series 8 is currently our favorite smartwatch and Prime Day is dropping the price to just $280.  Apple’s flagship smartwatch is the Apple Watch Series 8 and Prime Day is giving it a $120 discount. Usually $399, the 41mm GPS model is now $280. The Series 8 is our favorite smartwatch thanks to its detailed health and fitness tracking along with a seamless integration with your iPhone’s apps and notifications. New features like temperature sensors, ECG monitors, blood oxygen readings and improved sleep metrics give you more data than ever, while the crash detection can call for help if you’re ever in an accident. The upcoming WatchOS 10 will add widgets and expanded features including ways to track your mood in the Mindfulness app. The cellular-enabled models are also on sale. Those watches can make calls, get texts and more when you don't have your phone. The 41mm GPS plus cellular Series 8 is $380 instead of $499 and it's $410 for the 45mm size as opposed to the usual $529. Heavy users will appreciate the processing power of the new MacBook Pros and right now Amazon is selling the 14-inch model for $1,799. The MacBook Pro offers music makers, video producers and other heavy users a lot of processing power with the M2 Pro and M2 Max chips. Amazon is selling the base model 14-inch MacBook Pro with the M2 Pro chip, 16GB of memory and 512GB of storage for $1,799, which is $200 off the usual $1,999. The base model 16-inch MacBook Pro with the same specs is down to $2,299 instead of $2,499. When the new MacBook Pros came out in January of this year, we gave the 14-inch model a 92 review score, praising the Liquid Retina XDR display, sturdy design and plethora of ports including three Thunderbolt 4 USB-C, HDMI, a headphone jack and a full-sized SD card slot. Read our full review of Apple's 14-inch MacBook Pro Prime Day has brought the Apple Studio Display down to $1,499, which makes it a little more palatable, but we still think the display is ideal only for true Apple devotees. The usual $1,599 for the Apple Studio Display is pretty steep. Prime Day has brought the price down to $1,499, which makes it a little more palatable, but we still think the display is ideal only for true Apple devotees. The A13 Bionic chip inside makes it a little smarter than most displays, but the 60Hz refresh rate is disappointing. Still, it’s got a nice build with good speakers and a bright and accurate screen. Your Prime Day Shopping Guide: See all of our Prime Day coverage. Shop the best Prime Day deals on Yahoo Life. Follow Engadget for the best Amazon Prime Day tech deals. Learn about Prime Day trends on In the Know. Hear from Autoblog’s car experts on must-shop auto-related Prime Day deals and find Prime Day sales to shop on AOL, handpicked just for you. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Apple Podcasts on the web now allows you to do a whole lot more than just listen. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.