Listen to Story Rahul Gandhi has a new gig. He’s the chief ideologue of the oldest political party in India. And his ideals — shall we call it Gandhigiri 2.0? — seem to be centred around “mohabbat”. After the Indian National Congress’ massive victory in the Karnataka Assembly polls, Rahul told the press that the “nafrat ki bazaar” had now folded up in the state and in its stead, “mohabbat ki dukaanein” had opened. Sure. But what is Rahul Gandhi’s ideology of love, and more importantly, will Indians drink this “mohabbat ka sharbat”? Well... Nafrat versus Mohabbat Election outcomes depend on myriad factors, big and small, and pinning them on singular events (or politicians) is patently reductive. However, one has to, nevertheless, admit that the Karnataka polls witnessed an ideological face-off between Rahul and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and there, the latter’s attempts at stoking sectarian passions did not succeed. In a last-ditch attempt, PM Modi during election rallies conflated the Bajrang Dal with Lord Hanuman, and said: “Please cast your vote and do not forget to chant Jai Bajrang Bali when you exercise your franchise.” This was in response to the Congress manifesto promise of banning organisations like the Bajrang Dal and the Popular Front of India for “promoting enmity or hatred, whether among majority or minority communities”. He also brought up the conspiracy theory film, 'The Kerala Story', during the campaign in Karnataka and said, “Congress is opposing the film made on terrorism and standing with terror tendencies. Congress has shielded terrorism for the vote bank.” In fact, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state invoked tried-and-tested “culture war” non-issues like halal, hijab, namaz, azaan, and Tipu Sultan. The 135-seat Congress majority would seem a good barometer for the declining efficacy of such tactics. No vikas, yes hate speech Time and again, in rallies across the country, PM Modi has reminded Indians that “Sabka saath, sabka vikas is not just a slogan for the BJP, it is our commitment”. But the Karnataka verdict suggests that people are starting to doubt this promise. The data would also suggest that the growth story is falling apart. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, India’s unemployment rate increased in April 2023 to 8.11 per cent from 7.8 per cent in March 2023 — it ranged between 6.4 per cent and 8.3 per cent (averaging at 7.6 per cent), in the 12 months prior to that. Oxfam India’s report, 'Survival of the Richest: The India Supplement', noted that the top one per cent in India owned more than 40.5 per cent of total wealth in 2021 while the bottom 50 per cent of the population (700 million) owned around three per cent of total wealth. Rising wealth inequities, inflation, and unemployment, alongside curbs on press freedom — India’s ranking in the 2023 World Press Freedom Index slipped to 161 out of 180 countries — and other civil liberties being hampered have tainted the BJP’s image as a party of “vikas”. In recent years, there has also been a rise in hate politics. “The BJP and RSS’s ideology is fundamentally incompatible with the Constitution of India,” claims the official Congress party website. Cases filed under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code — “the promotion of enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language” — registered an almost 500 per cent increase in seven years, from 323 cases in 2014 to 1,804 cases in 2020, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. Cases related to IPC Section 505 (publication or circulation of any statement, rumour or report causing public mischief and enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) increased almost six times between 2017 and 2020. And over 2,900 cases of communal or religious rioting were registered in the country between 2017 and 2021. BJP leaders have time and again spewed communally-charged words at the public, from slogans like “... goli maaro saalo ko” for dissidents to comments on religious figures, to speeches on the conspiracy theories like love jihad, and rhetoric like growing Muslim population in India. And it would seem that not only are there diminishing returns on such speech, this might actually prove detrimental to the party itself. Especially, if it’s countered through a campaign for uniting the nation. Bharat Jodo and Gandhigiri The BJP has long attempted to portray the Gandhi scion as a privileged dimwit “nepo-kid” — successfully so. When the whole country calls you “Pappu”, when you’re more a punchline than a political force, you know you’ve messed up big. But Rahul Gandhi did the unthinkable and rebranded himself into a “jana neta” antidote to the environment of hate politics in India, and successfully so. And this rebranding has been in the works for some time now. Throughout the Bharat Jodo Yatra, the pan-India Congress march, Rahul was seen walking and interacting with people, the aam janata, come rain or sun or snow or dust. The message: Rahul Gandhi is not your regular dynasty scion — he doesn’t mind getting his boots dirty; also, unlike the PM, with his oh-so-rare interviews and security-heavy rallies, Rahul Gandhi is a people’s leader who isn’t afraid of the reporter’s mic. But that’s not all it takes to become the BJP’s antithesis. He has also carefully crafted his brand, and the Congress party’s message as not just anti-hate (and by extension anti-BJP), but pro-tolerance and pro-love. The biggest example of this is: the Gandhi family forgave Rajiv Gandhi’s killers, the LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) suicide bombers. Rahul Gandhi said in February 2021, “I don’t have anger towards anybody. Of course, I lost my father and for me, it was a very difficult time. It is like somebody has cut your heart out. I felt tremendous pain. But, I don’t feel angry. I don’t feel any hatred. I forgive.” He greets BJP workers with flying kisses, smiles at them, and welcomes them at rallies. And he’s been doing this for a while now. “My BJP friends have also come to listen to me. I welcome them from my heart. They have come here today to greet me,” he said during a rally way back in 2017. He also hugged PM Modi in Parliament. While other leaders might make deals with the BJP with investigative agencies breathing down their necks, Rahul makes the Centre’s political vendettas work to his own advantage. On his first visit to Wayanad, Kerala, since he was disqualified as Lok Sabha MP, he called his disqualification “the biggest gift” the BJP could give him, a sign that he was on the right path. Clearly, what the BJP had not counted on was Rahul’s resilience. And people seem to be in agreement. The Modi government’s overkill in going after Rahul (whether it’s SPG or his official residence) has made people ask: why is a two-term strongman PM going after a supposedly failed politician so vociferously? Rahul’s cool comportment in response to such tactics also earned him fans. The Gandhigiri is definitely turning approval in his favour. But will it be enough to, if not win, successfully derail BJP’s mandate plans? Only time (and the next few Assembly polls) will tell.   (Swati Chaturvedi is an award-winning journalist. She is the author of 'I Am a Troll - Inside the Secret World of the BJP’s Digital Army'.) (Views expressed in this opinion piece are that of the author.)Published By: Medha ChawlaPublished On: May 24, 2023--- ENDS ---ALSO READ:  |  Vocal for local: How Congress bent it like Modi in Karnataka | OPINION 
