Mumbai News Highlights (October 29): Chief Minister Eknath Shinde-led Shiv Sena MP Hemant Patil resigned from his post as a parliamentarian in support of the Maratha community’s demand of reservation. Patil, an MP from Hingoli Lok Sabha constituency, will be sending his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla  Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 152 this morning. BKC showed the worse AQI of 240, followed by 202 in Sion. The best AQI has been recorded at 72 in Andheri’s Chakala, followed by Worli and Borivali East, both of which registered an AQI of 93. In other news, The Maulana Azad Vichar Manch held a day-long conclave at Mumbai’s Islam Gymkhana on Saturday to demand educational quotas for the Muslim community. Political leaders from various parties participated in the conclave. Organisers said in a press conference, “Just as funds are provided in the budget for backward classes and tribals on the basis of their population, funds should be made available to the Muslim community, organisers said in a press conference.” The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence has busted a drug manufacturing factory in Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar in Maharashtra and seized 107 litres of liquid mephedrone worth Rs 160 crore, an official said on Sunday. Search of two premises of a firm called Apex Medichem Private Limited on Saturday led to the seizures, he said. The raid is follow-up action in a probe that began after the DRI's Pune unit and Ahmedbad Crime Branch from neighbouring Gujarat raided a factory on October 20 in Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar and had seized mephedrone, ketamine and cocaine worth Rs 250 crore in the illicit market. "The operation by DRI puts the spotlight on increasing use of synthetic drugs and misuse of industrial units in manufacturing of these drugs. The operation also highlights the importance of inter-agency cooperation in tackling the menace of narcotics in the country. Further investigation in the case under NDPS Act provisions is underway," the official added. (PTI) At least nine women climbed up a 70-feet overhead water tank in Maharashtra's Latur city on Sunday for the Maratha reservation. The women climbed atop the water tank located in the Gandhi Chowk area at around 3 pm. Despite appeals made by the police and district officials, they refused to come down. Tehsildar Saudagar Tandle and police officials are trying to convince the protestors but they refused to budge and even threatened to jump. Separately, members of Maratha Kranti Morcha launched an indefinite hunger strike in the city on the appeal made by the Maratha reservation activist Manoj Jarange. The protesters said they will continue the fight until the reservation is granted but won't take extreme steps like committing suicide. (PTI) Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday alleged the inaction by the Maharashtra and Central governments on the Maratha quota issue has led to unrest in the community. Speaking at a function here, Pawar said the demand of Maratha quota activist Manoj Jarange should be accepted without hurting the interests of other communities. The NCP chief said he had met Jarange when he had observed a fast last month and understood the demands raised by him. Maharashtra and Central governments didn't take immediate decision on the Maratha quota issue which triggered unrest in the community, he alleged. "As a party too, our stand is clear. Jarange's demand should be met without hurting the interests of other communities. The need of the hour is to ensure that the quota demand is fulfilled in a proper way," Pawar said. Maratha community has been staging protests seeking reservation in the government jobs and education under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. (PTI) Chief Minister Eknath Shinde led Shiv Sena MP Hemant Patil said that he is resigning from the post of MP in support of Maratha community which is demanding reservation.  Patil, an MP from Hingoli Lok Sabha constituency will be sending his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.  Patil was recently in news for allegedly forcing the dean of Nanded hospital to clean the toilet. A 24-year-old woman was arrested allegedly with a country-made pistol, revolver and two bullets, a police official said on Sunday. Heena Rihan Khan was held on a tip off and efforts are on to find out more about this arms and ammunition smuggling network, the Shivaji Nagar police station official said. She has been charged under the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act and Arms Act, the official added. (PTI) Three godowns were gutted in a fire that erupted in a complex in Bhiwandi town of Maharashtra's Thane district on Sunday, and no casualties were reported in the incident, a civic official said. The blaze erupted in a godown, which had drums containing chemicals, at a complex in Rahnal around noon, civic disaster management officer Sakib Kharbe said. The fire spread to two adjacent godowns where yarn cones and scrap materials were stored, he said. While no one was injured in the incident, the three godowns were completely gutted, the official said. Four fire engines, including three from Bhiwandi and one from the Kalyan Dombivili Municipal Corporation (KDMC), were pressed into service and the blaze was brought under control by 4.30 pm, he said. (PTI) Lok Sabha MP and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sunil Tatkare on Sunday said he traced the history of reservations given to Marathas and the issues it faced in the judiciary, and the state government wanted to grant a legally sustainable reservation to the community. Speaking to reporters here, Tatkare said the constituents of the ‘Mahayuti' — the Shiv Sena, NCP (Ajit Pawar faction) and BJP — are now working towards “Mission 45 plus” and are sure to bag more than 45 seats in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. The seat distribution among the Mahayuti constituents will happen properly and the leaders of the state and centre will be party to the same, he said. (PTI) The Maratha and Dhangar communities must be given reservation in jobs and education without impacting such benefits of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes, said Shiv Sena (UBT) chief Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday. A section of the Maratha community has been demanding including in the OBC segment for quota purposes, while the Dhangars want ST status. Instead of playing with the life of Maratha quota activist Manoj Jarange, who is on a hunger strike, the Eknath Shinde government must provide reservations to the community and ensure social unit is not hurt, Thackeray said in a statement. Jarange is on a fast unto death since October 25 in Jalna seeking quota for the community. (PTI) Lok Sabha MP and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sunil Tatkare on Sunday said he traced the history of reservations given to Marathas and the issues it faced in the judiciary, and the state government wanted to grant a legally sustainable reservation to the community. Speaking to reporters here, Tatkare said the constituents of the ‘Mahayuti' — the Shiv Sena, NCP (Ajit Pawar faction) and BJP — are now working towards “Mission 45 plus” and are sure to bag more than 45 seats in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. The seat distribution among the Mahayuti constituents will happen properly and the leaders of the state and centre will be party to the same, he said. The NCP leader reiterated that the Maharashtra government under the leadership of Eknath Shinde was committed to grant reservation to the Marathas. (PTI) Residents of Charangaon in Maharashtra's Akola district on Sunday said they have banned the entry of political leaders into the village till Maratha quota is declared in the state. They pointed to a board outside the village, in Patur taluka, proclaiming that no leader from any political party will enter till the state government declares reservations for the community in jobs and education. "Charangaon is the first area in Akola to take such a decision," claimed villager Rajesh Deshmukh. If political leaders can think about the future of their children, why not us and for that we need reservations, another villager said. (PTI) Last October saw restauranteur Riyaaz Amlani’s cafe and co-working space Social opening in Dadar. Becoming its neighbour a month ago were the folks behind the famed Malvani restaurant Chaitanya, who opened fine-dining restaurant Coast and Bloom serving coastal fare from across the world. And, coming up next is Shilpa Shetty Kundra’s Bastian with a 10,000 sq ft rooftop restaurant parked on the 48th floor of the same commercial and residential hub. With at least three high-end restaurants opening in Dadar and many others lined up, it poses the question: Is Dadar emerging as the next food and beverage (F&B) hotspot of Mumbai? “Dadar is very upcoming,” said Nikita Harisinghani, co-founder of Chrome Asia Hospitality, the company behind the recently launched Gigi in Bandra among others, adding that they were also eyeing this neighbourhood to open their new restaurant. But they didn’t because they couldn’t find the right property. “Hospitality, sadly in Mumbai, has become all about real estate. You have to have a property which is significant in size, has good frontage, allows natural light to come in and still be affordable. We are still looking for one, and if we get it, we would cent per cent have a restaurant there,” she said, adding that those opening restaurants in Dadar now would have first mover advantage. Read more Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has said Chief Minister Eknath Shinde will not be disqualified and in case that happens, he will be elected as an MLC and will retain his post. The Supreme Court on October 17 granted state assembly Speaker Rahul Narwekar a final opportunity to give it a realistic time-frame for deciding the cross-petitions filed by rival factions of the Shiv Sena seeking disqualification of each other's MLAs following a split in the party last year. The apex court is scheduled to hear on Monday pleas filed by the Uddhav Thackeray faction of the Shiv Sena and the Sharad Pawar bloc of the NCP, seeking a direction to Narwekar to expeditiously decide disqualification petitions against some MLAs. (PTI) Ghatkopar residents protest on Sunday in Mumbai to support Manoj Jarange Patil, who is leading the ongoing Maratha reservation protests in Maharashtra.   Senior NCP leader Praful Patel on X ( Former Twitter) has posted: Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar is diagnosed with dengue. He had been advised medical guidance and rest. Maharashtra assembly Speaker Rahul Narwekar today left for New Delhi where he is scheduled to attend a couple of meetings, including one with Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Notably, the Supreme Court on October 17 granted Narwekar a final opportunity to give it a realistic time-frame for deciding the cross-petitions filed by rival factions of the Shiv Sena seeking disqualification of each other's MLAs following a split in the party. The apex court said the disqualification petitions have to be adjudicated expeditiously and posted the matter for hearing on October 30. Speaking to reporters at the Mumbai airport on Sunday while leaving for the national capital, Narwekar said, “There are a couple of meetings scheduled in Delhi, including one with the Solicitor General (SG). It is a scheduled visit to Delhi.” The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday pleas filed by the Uddhav Thackeray faction of the Shiv Sena and the Sharad Pawar bloc of the NCP, seeking a direction to Narwekar to expeditiously decide disqualification petitions against some MLAs. PTI According to CPCB data, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Mumbai stands at 152 on Sunday morning. The worst air quality in the city has recorded at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) where the AQI stands at 240 followed by Sion (202), Colaba's Navy Nagar (193) and Mazgaon (192). Meanwhile, the best AQI has been recorded at 72 in Andheri's Chakala, followed by Worli and Borivali East, both of which registered an AQI of 93. During the block period, there will be a suspension of up and down Trans-Harbour line services between Vashi, Nerul and Thane stations.  Down line services for Vashi, Nerul, and Panvel leaving Thane from 10.35 am to 4.07 pm and Up line services for Thane leaving Vashi, Nerul, Panvel from 10.25 am to 4.09 pm will remain cancelled.  Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party president Chandrashekhar Bawankule on Saturday said those attacking Sanatan Dharma must be taught a lesson. Addressing a public gathering in Bhiwandi in Thane district, he said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leaders like Udhayanidhi Stalin are talking about eradicating Sanatan Dharma and asked if their allies like Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar agree to such objectionable statements. The DMK, Thackeray's Shiv Sena (UBT) and Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party are part of the 28-party opposition bloc Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance (INDIA). "In the upcoming Lok Sabha elections, people of Bhiwandi must teach this alliance a lesson. The people must question Sharad Pawar and Thackeray," he said. (PTI) Amid a hunger strike by activist Manoj Jarange over the Maratha quota in Maharashtra, members of the community on Saturday blocked a road in Latur district, holding up traffic for nearly two hours, officials said. A large number of people from the Maratha community gathered at Borgaon Kale village on the Murud-Latur road in solidarity with Jarange. The protesters blocked the movement of vehicles on the road. The protesters said local Maratha MLAs do not speak a single word about the community's demand for reservation in government jobs and education. A local activist, Umesh Deshmukh, also sat on a fast at the spot, while many launched a relay hunger strike with him. Vehicular movement resumed after nearly two hours, said an official, adding that several policemen were deployed at the spot to maintain law and order. Meanwhile, many community members, including women, from ten villages entered the Majara river at Nagzari village in the district as part of their protest. They also demanded a caste census in the state. (PTI) IN Sneha Raisoni's opinion,the BEST buses efficient and wallet-friendly score over taxis as public transport. However,in terms of design,the owner of Tappu Ki Dukaan,a store known for kitschy collectibles and lifestyle products,concedes that Premier Padmini kaali-peeli taxis are more popular as a motif for Mumbai. Taxi art with jazzy stickers, nimbu-mirchi and colourful lights is a far more attractive image when compared with the modest BEST bus. Apart from this, products with taxi motifs are hugely popular with locals as well as tourists, says Raisoni. Many people confuse the Premier Padminis with Fiat and continue to call it that. In 1952,Premier Automobiles of India (PAL) bought the licence to produce the Italian Fiat 1100D or Millecento locally. But when Fiat pulled out in 1973,the car's name was changed to Premier Padmini. Read more For decades, if one had to conjure up a picture of Mumbai, the imagery would be incomplete without the city's ‘Premier Padmini' taxis. For, the public carriers, fondly called ‘kaali-peeli', were more than just a mode of transport. They were attached to every aspect of the city. Giving way to newer models and app-based cab services, these black-and-yellow taxis will now bow out from Mumbai's streets, following the path of retirement recently taken by the BEST's legendary red double-decker diesel buses. A transport department official said the last Premier Padmini was registered as a black-and-yellow taxi at the Tardeo RTO, which has jurisdiction over the island city of Mumbai, on October 29, 2003. As the age limit for cabs in the city is 20 years, Mumbai officially won't have a Premier Padmini taxi from Monday onwards. “Yeh Mumbai ki shaan hai aur hamari jaan hai (it is the pride of Mumbai and life of mine),” said Prabhadevi resident Abdul Kareem Karsekar, who owns the last registered Premier Padmini taxi of Mumbai, bearing registration number MH-01-JA-2556. (PTI)   Activist Manoj Jarange, who is observing an indefinite fast for the Maratha quota demand, on Saturday said a series of hunger strikes will begin in every village in Maharashtra from October 29 if the government fails to grant the reservation immediately. Jarange also said the government would be responsible if any harm befalls protesters sitting on fast during the protest. Addressing the media in Antarwali Sarati village in Jalna district, Jarange announced that the second phase of the reservation movement had begun and the third phase would start on October 31. On the fourth day of his hunger strike, 40-year-old Jarange refused to be examined by doctors after Jalna district collector Shri Krishna Panchal and superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawade met him to enquire about his health. (PTI) The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on October 30 pleas filed by the Uddhav Thackeray faction of the Shiv Sena and the Sharad Pawar bloc of the NCP, seeking a direction to the Maharashtra assembly speaker to expeditiously decide disqualification petitions against some MLAs. A bench headed by Chief Justice DY Chandrachud is scheduled to take up two separate pleas filed by both the factions. The Supreme Court is set to reopen after a week-long Dussehra holiday. On October 17, the top court granted assembly Speaker Rahul Narwekar a final opportunity to give it a realistic time-frame for deciding the cross-petitions filed by the rival factions of the Shiv Sena seeking disqualification of each other's MLAs following a split in the party. (PTI) The police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a 57-year-old woman whose body was found abandoned on a field in Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said on Saturday. The police on Thursday apprehended Saphala residents Rajesh Bijire Sonar (21) and Karan Man Singh (30) for the murder, which took place in June, while another accused involved in the crime is absconding, said Balaseheb Patil, district superintendent of police Palghar Rural. Padma Bahadursingh Bik was found strangled to death on a field in the district on June 6. The Saphala police registered an offence under sections 302 (murder), 397 (robbery) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and began the probe, he said. Based on intelligence and technical inputs, the police zeroed in on the accused, who had allegedly robbed the woman of her jewellery and killed her, the official said. (PTI) A fire broke out at a godown in which discarded cosmetics were stored in Maharashtra's Thane district on Saturday, and no casualties were reported in the incident, a civic official said. The blaze erupted in a shed-like structure, where a stock of cosmetics had been stored, between Bhiwandi and Kalyan towns around 10.30 am, fire officer Khalil Darekar from the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) said. Eleven fire engines, including four from the BNMC and seven from Kalyan, rushed to the scene and doused the blaze, he said, adding the cause for the fire is yet to be ascertained. (PTI) Powerloom owners in Bhiwandi town of Maharashtra's Thane district have called for a complete shutdown of their units from November 1 to 20 to press for their long-pending demands from the government. Around 700 powerloom owners held a meeting here and decided to keep the units shut for 20 days to draw the government's attention to their woes, ranging from yarn prices and taxes to electricity rates. "The Central and state governments are to blame for the pathetic situation in Bhiwandi, which is considered the Manchester of India," said Naresh Sancheti, a representative of the powerloom owners. The Bhiwandi industry employs nearly five lakh workers drawn from different states and during this period they will have to starve as they won't have any work or wages, he said. (PTI) Days after PM Narendra Modi alleges NCP chief Sharad Pawar claiming not doing enough for agriculture, Pawar reads out his achievements in the agri field from UPA 1. "PM is being misled by those who are close to him. Leader of the nation shouldn't get misled in such a manner." Pawar said. People are thinking about change nowadays. "Change is visible in assembly polls. I will talk about change in parliament after taking proper information." Speaking to reporters at Y.B. Chavan, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar said, "India was never as confused on Palestine issue as it is today. There are different statements on this issue from different quarters. We have never supported Israel. We have never supported violence against Palestine. Today we stand confused." A special court on Friday rejected the application filed by NCP leader and cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal’s son and nephew, seeking to drop proceedings against them initiated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in 2016. The pleas were rejected as the court said that it did not have the power to quash proceedings. The court, however, said that since the state government had not challenged an order discharging the Bhujbals and other accused in 2021 from a linked case filed by the ACB, that order has attained finality.  The BJP was forced to withdraw a compilation of old videos released on its website after Deputy Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis’s remarks in it evoked sharp reactions in Maharashtra. In the video, Fadnavis is seen saying that he “shall be back”. Following the intense reaction to it, state BJP president Chandrashekhar Bawankule was forced to clarify on Saturday that Eknath Shinde will remain the chief minister. Bawankule said, “Nobody should misinterpret the old video clipping on Fadnavis. Shinde will continue as CM. The 2024 elections will be under his leadership.”  Click to know more. The Mumbai police have registered a case of extortion and criminal intimidation after an unknown person allegedly sent an email threatening to eliminate Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani. The police said the email was sent to one of the company’s email IDs on Friday evening following which the matter was reported to the Gamdevi police station and a case was registered. Read more here. The Vice principal of a popular South Mumbai college has been booked for allegedly sexually harassing a 52-year-old woman colleague. Police said the woman, who works as a supervisor and reported to the vice principal, has alleged that the accused would touch her inappropriately in office, tried to make physical contact and also passed objectionable comments. According to the police, the case was registered on Monday under sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 (A) (Sexual harassment), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code after the woman lodged a complaint against the vice principal. Read more. On October 27, Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani received a death threat via email, as per ANI news agency. Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani received death threat on email on 27th October, threatening to shoot him if he failed to pay Rs 20 crores. Case registered under sections 387 and 506 (2) IPC in Gamdevi PS of Mumbai: Police Prime Minister Narendra Modi never talks about the burning issues of the country, said Shiv Sena (UBT) chief Uddhav Thackeray on Friday while criticising the PM for not mentioning the Maratha reservation issue during his Maharashtra tour on Thursday. “That is what he (the PM) is known for. He never talks about the burning issues… He never talks about the Manipur issue. Today, the entire state of Maharashtra is closely watching developments in the Maratha reservation agitation… youth, meanwhile, are dying by suicide… but he did not talk about it,” Uddhav said during a programme organised by the Raigad District Central Cooperative Bank Limited in Shrivardhan, while sharing dais with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, senior Congress leader and former state CM Prithviraj Chavan, and Peasants and Workers Party (PWP) leader MLC Jayant Patil. Tap to read more. In a scathing attack on Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena (UBT) and former environment minister Aaditya Thackeray over the “dipping” and “poor” air quality in the city, BJP Mumbai president Ashish Shelar on Friday said, “The (UBT) group has waived Rs 14,000 crore fine imposed on industries, which eventually caused heavy air pollution in Mumbai.”  Read more. State BJP chief Chandrashekhar Bawankule says Eknath Shinde will remain CM of Maharashtra. He said that nobody should misinterpret the BJP's tweet on Fadnavis.  The new bridge will reduce travel time. (Express File Photo) The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has started the construction work of a new flyover for airport commuting, which would facilitate signal-free traffic. According to officials, 70 per cent of the construction work of the ‘Airport Terminal – T1’ new bridge has been attained. The authority has also achieved a significant milestone with the recent launch of girders on the busiest Western Express Highway (WEH) — without any trestle support on road, and causing affecting the traffic, said a source from the MMRDA-appointed contractor’s team (M/s RPS Infraprojects Private Limited), requesting anonymity. Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates