 German to reunite with close friend Michael Schwarzmann in 2024 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Pascal Ackermann will be Israel-PremierTech’s lead sprinter in 2024 following the departure of Giacomo Nizzolo to Q36.5. Ackermann joins the team from UAE Team Emirates, where he spent the past two seasons. The German won a stage of this year’s Giro d’Italia in Tortona, but he has found opportunities limited at a UAE Team Emirates squad focused more squarely on the general classification.  Ackermann will be joined at Israel-PremierTech by his former Bora-Hansgrohe teammate Michael Schwarzmann, who arrives from Lotto-Dstny. “I have won a lot of races and a lot of big races, but the Tour de France is still the one that is missing. I have never raced the Tour and it is one of my biggest dreams, so I think IPT is the perfect team to race with and get my first Tour de France win,” Ackermann said in a statement released by Israel-PremierTech. Giro d'Italia revelation Derek Gee extends Israel-Premier Tech contract to 2028 Sylvan Adams: Call Israel-Premier Tech a retirement home, I don't care Ackermann made his Grand Tour debut at the 2019 Giro, winning two stages and claiming the maglia ciclamino, and he followed up with a pair of wins on the 2020 Vuelta a España.  He was left out of Bora-Hansgrohe’s Grand Tour plans altogether in his final season at the team in 2021, while the presence of Tadej Pogacar meant he was never likely to feature at the Tour de France for UAE Team Emirates. The 29-year-old has claimed 40 victories as a professional, with his most recent win coming on the opening day of the Tour of Austria in July, and he will lead the line for UAE Team Emirates at this weekend’s BEMER Cyclassics. The latest race content, interviews, features, reviews and expert buying guides, direct to your inbox! Ackermann has signed a two-year contract with Israel-PremierTech, while Schwarzmann has agreed a one-year deal with the team. “When I turned pro, Michael Schwarzmann was the guy who taught me how to be a pro cyclist and showed me how to save power, and beyond that we are friends,” Ackermann said.  “When I decided to come to Israel-Premier Tech, I wanted to bring him with me as I know he is one of the most experienced guys in cycling, he knows exactly what he needs to do, how to ride, when to move up, and he can teach the young riders so much. “He will be one of the most important guys for me next year, and also with a rider like Rick Zabel who you can see is doing the best lead outs. I hope together we will get some nice victories.” Israel-PremierTech last week announced the arrival of Ethan Vernon from Soudal-QuickStep, while the squad has also tied Giro revelation Derek Gee to a long-term contract that runs to the end of 2028.  Thank you for reading 5 articles in the past 30 days* Join now for unlimited access Enjoy your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 *Read any 5 articles for free in each 30-day period, this automatically resets After your trial you will be billed £4.99 $7.99 €5.99 per month, cancel anytime. Or sign up for one year for just £49 $79 €59 Join now for unlimited access Try your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 Barry Ryan is Head of Features at Cyclingnews. He has covered professional cycling since 2010, reporting from the Tour de France, Giro d’Italia and events from Argentina to Japan. His writing has appeared in The Independent, Procycling and Cycling Plus. He is the author of The Ascent: Sean Kelly, Stephen Roche and the Rise of Irish Cycling’s Golden Generation, published by Gill Books. 'It’s a dream for us' - Pauliena Rooijakkers makes Tour de France Femmes podium after matching Vollering in mountains Kaden Groves celebrates return to winning ways at Vuelta a España Barraged after nature break Évita Muzic fights to third on Alpe d'Huez at Tour de France Femmes Cyclingnews is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 