The bright new color needs a case to match.  If you buy something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission. Why Trust Us? In big tech world news, Apple has announced that the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus will be available to order in a brand new color: yellow. The bright, sunny shade comes just in time for spring and fits in seamlessly with the rest of the color options in the iPhone 14 lineup. Unfortunately, the new color doesn't extend to the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max, but we're still excited to see it paired with the 14 and 14 Plus. The phone's qualities remain entirely the same, but the exterior is made anew with the happy, fun shade.  Of course, once you get a new phone, you'll want to keep your purchase protected. But let's be real: You also want to show off that you got your hands on the latest color drop from Apple. Whether you're looking for a wallet-style case or a more eco-friendly type, there's a host of options to choose from. We've narrowed down some of the best iPhone 14 cases (and some for the 14 Plus, too) that will show off the new yellow color. Apple even launched their classic Silicone Case in a matching hue, but it's temporarily sold out during the excitement of the launch.  The yellow iPhone opened for pre-order on this Friday, March 10, and will be officially released on March 14. That means if you purchase a case today, you'll likely have it in time for when your phone arrives. Whichever case you choose, your phone is sure to look great.  Our pick for the best clear iPhone case, this option from Tech21 has you covered with protection while fully showing off your new yellow iPhone. It offers up to 12 feet of drop protection and has an antimicrobial coating to reduce the spread of bacteria. The case is slim and doesn’t add bulk to your device.   This clear case showcases the MagSafe magnets in the back of your phone and adds a solid white border around your device. The Smartish case is affordable at a $20 price point and is lightweight and has raised edges to protect your screen should you drop your phone.  While this isn’t the exact same shade of yellow, Apple offers this bright case that lets you show off the sunny hue. The silicone case is soft to the touch and keeps your phone free from dust and scratches. It’s MagSafe-compatible and features a subtle Apple logo on the back. This case has a dreamy orange tie-dye pattern that will look striking against the yellow backdrop of your new phone. The case is MagSafe compatible, but the design hides the harsh look of the magnets you typically see on clear MagSafe cases. The raised edges protect your camera and your screen should accidents happen.  An affordable silicone pick, this option from Elago falls under $25 normally but is just $12.99 right now. It has a microfiber inner lining that will keep your device from getting scratched while the outer silicone is soft to the touch. It comes in a host of colors, but we like the soft off-white to complement the bright tone of your yellow device.   Smartish brings functionality to this phone case beyond just protecting your top-used tech. The back of the case has a built-in card slot that can hold three cards (think your credit card, license, and one more) as well as cash. The sides of the case are rubberized for additional grip to keep you from dropping your phone. Just a heads up: The case won't be compatible with MagSafe or wireless charging.  A soft leather case is always a good idea, and Apple's leather pick is on the affordable side (especially when it comes to leather cases, which definitely get pricey). Whichever leather shade you pick, it's a classic style to add to your newest tech. There are five leather shades to choose from, but the orange hue will really stand out against the yellow.  I have over 75 phone cases in my arsenal after testing a host of options, and this pick from Nomad Goods is more often than not the one I'm putting on my phone. It's protective, doesn't scratch, and has kept my phone intact throughout drops and accidents.  It offers 6-foot drop protection and a lightweight polycarbonate frame that doesn't add any bulk to your device.  While of course you love the new hue, this translucent purple is another fun pop of color that still lets you show off your yellow while adding a cool layered color effect. It has a slim design to keep your device light in your hand and two layers of protection for up to 8 feet of drop protection.   Another pattern that looks stellar paired with a yellow backdrop, this case has soft, warm-toned clouds sure to stand out. The clear case has up to 6.6 feet of drop protection and a MagSafe magnet built into the case for easy access to charging.  A matte black case goes with every phone color, and this one from Casetify fits the bill. It has drop protection up to 8.2 feet and raised bezels for a bit of screen protection. The side is soft silicone and the back is a harder plastic material. It’s on the pricier side, but Casetify’s cases are known for being extremely durable while maintaining a sleek design. Having tested a handful of their cases, I’ve found the brand’s cases live up to the price tag. This clear case with a floral overlay will add a soft pattern to the back of your device and even more color. The blue and white will pop against the yellow backdrop. Plus, the case comes at a super-affordable price and offers up to 10 feet of drop protection.  The glitter in the back of this case will amplify the bright yellow iPhone. It’s anti-scratch and has shock-absorbing bumpers for up to 10 feet of drop protection. The glitter is built into the case so it won’t rub off or scratch your hands. I’ve tested this case, and while it isn’t the most protective pick, it’s ultra thin, lightweight, and adds protection from scratches. It comes in a totally clear or this frosted clear option. This case has a clear back paired with a solid black border. The black pops against the yellow phone. You won't see the yellow peek through on the front so much, but the back of the phone has the color exposed while keeping it protected from dust and scratches. Why Your Next Laptop Should Be an Apple MacBook Minecraft and Beats Drop Unique Solo 4 Headphones Our Guide to the Entire Apple iPhone Lineup The 7 Best iPad Pro Cases and Covers How to Screen Record on an iPad The Best iPad Air Cases and Covers Can You Buy a Replacement AirPod? The Best iPad to Buy in 2024 Reviewed: iPad Air (6th Generation) with M2 Chip How to Connect an Apple Pencil to Your iPad Reviewed: iPad Pro (2024) with the Apple M4 Chip How to Free Up Storage Space on Your iPhone A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.