Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Finally, a good day for Virgin Galactic. Shares of space pioneer Virgin Galactic (SPCE 3.81%) jumped as much as 17% in trading on Tuesday as the stock market recovered and bond yields fell. At 3:40 p.m. ET shares were still up 9.8% on the day.  Virgin Galactic is a volatile stock, and as a result it tends to magnify the market's moves, whether they're positive or negative. The Nasdaq Composite was up over 1% early in trading Tuesday and is currently up 0.7%.  The other big factor driving high-risk stocks is the bond market. Bond yields are dropping in the U.S., with the 10-year government bond yield down 15 basis points to 4.65% today. This has a couple of implications for Virgin Galactic. One is that traders looking at risk may find a high-risk stock like Virgin Galactic more attractive as bond yields fall. The second is that the company will find it easier to raise funds in an environment of lower interest rates.  There's simply a lot of volatility for Virgin Galactic, and after the stock was falling for months, investors were looking for a day to buy it. Short-sellers may have been caught and helped push the stock even higher. These are day-to-day trading dynamics, but they're not sustainable long-term.  What Virgin Galactic needs to do now is improve its cash flow and balance sheet in order to invest in the Delta spacecraft that may actually get it to profitability. Until that happens, investors should treat this stock with caution.  Travis Hoium has positions in Virgin Galactic. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.