Advertisement 
                July 31, 2023 | 3 min read
             

                     Listen to article
                 
4 min
 The Back on 74 music video art is riddled with hidden concert tickets and artworks that viewers can download via WeTransfer’s file-sharing technology. Jungle, an electronic duo formed by British producers Josh Lloyd-Watson and Tom McFarland, have teamed with Dutch software firm WeTransfer on a first-of-its-kind interactive music video for their latest single, Back on 74. The music video not only features unique choreography and one-take cinematography but presents an interactive art gallery made up of downloadable artwork.   When a viewer clicks on a work of art they like, it is pulled from the canvas, revealing a blank canvas in its place, and downloaded on to their computer. Every viewing of the video populates with six different art pieces pulled from a bank of 10,000 unique works created by Lloyd-Watson. This ‘roulette’ creates a unique viewing experience for each person. Also hidden within the music video’s artwork are more than 100 free tickets to Jungle’s US and Europe fall tour, each downloadable with WeTransfer. The Back on 74 music video experience represents the final drop of WeTransfer and Jungle’s collaboration, which started in March. Other activations included the ‘Think It. Make It. Move It,’ campaign, which showed how WeTransfer’s software assisted in the production of the music video, alongside album artwork, music stems and a zine with behind-the-scenes material. The original music video, directed by J Lloyd & Charlie Di Placido of Contentus Maximus, was co-created by WeTransfer’s in-house creative Studio and Emmy Award-winning creative studio Nexus Studios. “This year, WeTransfer came on as producers for the music videos from Jungle’s ‘Volcano’ album, dropping exclusive content to their fans for free,” said Angelique Temple, chief marketing officer of WeTransfer. “Being a creative partner of this scale and helping to bring a music album to life is a testament to the trust we’ve built with creators in the last decade. With this partnership, we’re showing the potential of our platform to enable closer connections between creators and their audiences and offer a playful canvas for how they share their work with the world.”   The Back on 74 music video experience will be available to watch until the album’s launch date (August 11) on junglejunglejungle.wetransfer.com. It is also exhibited on WeTransfer’s global landing page, which is reportedly used by over 80 million monthly active users in 190 countries around the world. WeTransfer says its collaboration with Jungle was inspired by organic creator activity within the past decade, notably from music artists like Prince and Sault, who have used WeTransfer as a distribution platform to share music and other media within their fan communities. It is the first of many future collaborations between WeTransfer and other artists across music, film photography and other mediums. For more, sign up for The Drum’s daily newsletters here. 
        © Carnyx Group Ltd 2024 | The Drum is a Registered Trademark and property of Carnyx Group Limited. All rights reserved.
    