Marriott International Marriott International is pleased to announce the appointment of Sandy Narvaez to Market Director, Leisure Sales, Hawai‘i & French Polynesia. Narvaez brings over 16 years of travel and hospitality experience to this expanded role, where she will oversee and lead leisure segment strategies for Marriott Hotels and Resorts in the Hawaiian Islands and French Polynesia. Narvaez’s responsibilities include leading the leisure team’s efforts in leveraging Marriott International’s global reach to increase individual hotel revenue, maintaining relationships with key travel agents and wholesale accounts, establishing travel marketing and action plans, and facilitating the integration of individual property efforts into the overall Marriott Bonvoy Hawai‘i strategy. She is passionate about supporting local businesses and mindfully sharing Hawai‘i’s culture with the world. Having previously served as the Director of Sales and Marketing of The Ritz-Carlton Residences, Waikiki Beach since the property’s full completion in 2018, Narvaez has substantial experience leading strategic global sales and marketing efforts and overseeing successful leisure sales programs. Narvaez was also the director of sales and marketing at Hilton Waikiki Beach and DoubleTree by Hilton Alana Waikiki and previously managed OTA, corporate, and wholesale segments. “We are fortunate to have someone of Sandy’s caliber leading our leisure sales efforts in Hawai‘i and French Polynesia,” says Peri Oshiyama Flora, Area Director of Sales, Hawai‘i & French Polynesia. “With her extensive experience in the Hawai‘i hospitality industry and deep knowledge of these key markets, we are confident Sandy will continue to drive sales success for the Marriott Bonvoy Hawai‘i portfolio.” Narvaez has been recognized by Pacific Edge Magazine as an esteemed hospitality leader and is a previous recipient of the Meeting Professional International-Aloha Chapter’s Rising Star Award. Born and raised in Hawai‘i, Narvaez graduated from Mililani High School and earned a dual degree in International Business and Marketing at the University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. She is currently attending the Richardson School of Law in pursuit of a Juris Doctor degree. Narvaez serves on the boards of the Shidler College of Business Alumni Association, Make-A-Wish Hawai‘i Young Leaders Board, and Women in Lodging & Tourism. Media, Maryland, United States You might also like: Receive daily leadership insights and stay ahead of the competition. Leading solution providers: Aphy hotelkit Atomize dailypoint Selfbook Copyright © eHotelier 2024