JW Marriott Jeju Resort & Spa's Executive Chef Joon Ko  Jeju Island is one of Asia’s most popular destinations—over 85,000 flights bound here depart from Seoul’s Gimpo International Airport yearly—yet few Americans have ever heard of it. But the recent, highly anticipated opening of JW Marriott Jeju Resort & Spa is poised to change all that. Hugging a rugged coastline overlooking Beomseom Island, the 197-key luxury resort envisioned by acclaimed architect and interior designer Bill Bensley celebrates Jeju’s rich heritage at every corner, from the tranquil accommodations cloaked in yellow, a color representing good luck, to The Flying Hog, the resort’s signature restaurant specializing in black pork and duck (two Jeju specialties) helmed by Executive Chef Joon Ko. Though Ko has worked in fast-paced cities like Melbourne, Sydney, and most recently, Seoul at JW Marriott Dongdaemun Square, he’s learned to slow down and appreciate Jeju’s unique sense of place. “It’s an island that’s Korean, but has a totally different culture, and even accent,” he says. “There are no traffic jams, and you can visit all the farms and beaches so easily. It’s so quiet here.” Ahead, Ko shares his recommendations for eating and drinking around Jeju Island if you’re visiting for the first time. Hairtail, a type of cutlassfish, is a Jeju delicacy.  Ko: Black pig, Udo (a nearby island) peanut, hairtail fish (cutlassfish) soup—which is expensive—mandarins, and local jeontongsju (traditional rice-based spirits). Jeju black pork is traditionally eaten as barbecue. Ko: Black pork. It takes longer for these pigs to reach the same size as other ones. That’s why pig farmers here spend more money to feed and grow them. The fat is more concentrated, and has much more flavor. It’s like eating regular beef, versus something dry-aged. It just tastes more porky. Chef Joon Ko at JW Marriott Jeju Resort & Spa's The Flying Hog Ko: Even though I work there, I’m going to say The Flying Hog. I helped plan it for two years, and it features uncomplicated and ingredient-driven dishes. If you’re eating with a group, I recommend booking the private room. It has one of the best views, and the price is reasonable, especially for a large group. Here’s another tip: lunch is half the price of dinner, and still features a set menu with our most popular dishes like our crunchy pork belly, duck leg, and cheese soufflé. Ko: Ppolsal Jip. I am so impressed with the owner, since he does all the butchering in front of customers. Unlike other barbecue places, you can order different pieces like the legs and belly. Because the owner stands in the middle, he can see what guests need. Obviously, the flavor of everything is really good because it’s fresh, but the service is truly excellent. JW Marriott Jeju Resort & Spa's Executive Joon Ko recommends buying alcohol at a convenience store, ... [+] and enjoying it right one of Jeju's famous beaches. Ko: Since there aren’t many bars, I prefer to day drink. Buy alcohol at a convenience store, and meet friends outdoors at a beach. Be Brave is Joon Ko's favorite place for coffee on Jeju Island Ko: Be Brave. They roast the coffee beans themselves, and it’s close to the hotel. They usually have three different types of beans, which can range a lot in price. I go for the cheapest one, though, since the quality is better than other spots. Ko: Adeng specializes in Chinese hot pot, and is near Olleh Market. It uses a lot of flavorful spices, and is a very authentic Chinese place.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.