Stay up-to-date on the companies, people and issues that impact businesses in Syracuse, Central New York and beyond. 

				Lockheed Martin Sikorsky helicopter built in Tioga County joins presidential fleet			
 

				Naturally Lewis, Lewis County seek expressions of interest for the redevelopment of former Lyons Falls School			
 

				North Country, Syracuse airports awarded more than $5 million in federal funding for projects			
 

				Crouse Health opens rapid-evaluation unit in its emergency department			
 More Stories View All | Submit an Event 

				Commercial Carpenter at Purcell Construction			
 UTICA, N.Y. — ECR International, Inc. recently announced that it will cease manufacturing at its Utica plant early next year, relocating those operations to its facility in Dunkirk in Western New York. The Utica plant, located at 2201 Dwyer Avenue, will cease manufacturing on Jan. 4, 2024, and be listed for sale, according to an Oct. 6 news release on its website. The company manufactures and markets HVAC equipment for residential, commercial, institutional, and hospitality markets. “The logistics involved with maintaining separate facilities does not align with optimizing manufacturing capabilities,” the release read. “ECR International recently invested over $2 million in our Dunkirk, N.Y. facility to streamline our operations and increase productivity. This plant consolidation will strengthen ECR International and allow us to continue manufacturing in New York state.” 

				Insurance Rates: What is really going on with these premiums and why they seem to be increasing!			
 This is a question we continuously get asked at CH Insurance. Clients with a good loss history, timely payments, excellent credit, and very good policies and procedures. All across the 

				How Does New York State’s Clean Slate Act Impact You?			
 On November 16, 2023, Governor Hochul signed into law the Clean Slate Act which automatically seals criminal records for certain crimes.  The law (effective next year), provides that misdemeanors are ECR filed a Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) with the New York State Department of Labor indicating about 40 of the 76 employees at its Utica plant would be laid off when it relocates manufacturing operations to Dunkirk. The company, founded in 1928, says it will retain its customer service, technical support, finance, marketing, and engineering operations in the Utica area. Stay up-to-date on the companies, people and issues that impact businesses in Syracuse, Central New York and beyond. Essential business news, thoughtful analysis and valuable insights for Central New York business leaders.