This site uses cookies to enhance your user experience. By continuing to use this site you are agreeing to our COOKIE POLICY.
 
						ERROR 1
					 
						ERROR 1
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							Password and Confirm password must match.
					 
							If you have an ACS member number, please enter it here so we can link this account to your membership. (optional)
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
						ACS values your privacy. By submitting your information, you are gaining access to C&EN and subscribing to our weekly newsletter. We use the information you provide to make your reading experience better, and we will never sell your data to third party members.
					 
						Already have an ACS ID? Log in here
   
           
               Already an ACS Member?
               Log in here
            
             
          $0 Community Associate
 ACS’s Basic Package keeps you connected with C&EN and ACS. $80 Regular Members & Society Affiliates ACS’s Standard Package lets you stay up to date with C&EN, stay active in ACS, and save. $160 Regular Members & Society Affiliates
$55 Graduate Students
$25 Undergraduate Students ACS’s Premium Package gives you full access to C&EN and everything the ACS Community has to offer. 
                                    
                                    Your account has been created successfully, and a confirmation email is on the way.
                                    
                                 
                                    
                                    Your username is now your ACS ID.
                                    
                                 Most Popular in Business


The rocky path from PhD to CEO 


What’s in sunscreen, and how does it protect your skin from the sun’s rays?


Is ammonia the fuel of the future?


C&EN’s Global Top 50 chemical firms for 2022


What are glow sticks, and what’s the chemical reaction that makes them light up?


  In a deal that could touch off a wave of consolidation, the world’s largest chemical distributor, Germany’s Brenntag, says it has begun talks to acquire one of its main rivals, Illinois-based Univar. In statements, both firms characterize the discussions as preliminary. Brenntag notes that the talks have not yielded “concrete results or agreements.” It adds, “It is currently not foreseeable whether there will be any kind of transaction.” Both companies are in the business of buying in bulk from large chemical companies and repackaging for smaller customers. They also blend chemicals and handle logistics for customers. Brenntag offers more than 10,000 different chemicals and ingredients and had sales in 2021 of $14.9 billion. It is active in both North America and Europe, with each region accounting for about 40% of its sales. A little more than half its business is distributing process chemicals to industrial customers. The balance is selling specialty chemicals to sectors such as nutrition, pharmaceuticals, personal care, and water treatment. Univar, once known as Van Waters & Rogers, is engaged in similar lines of business. It boasts a roll of about 17,000 products and had sales in 2021 of $9.5 billion, making it the third-largest chemical distributor in the world, just behind Houston-based Tricon Energy. Univar is more of a regional player than Brenntag, posting two-thirds of its sales in the US. A third of its sales come from specialty chemicals. Univar itself wrapped up a large acquisition in 2019 with the $2 billion purchase of Nexeo Solutions, the former Ashland distribution business. It has also been emphasizing its technical services, hosting an online innovation day in June to highlight its R&D centers, formulation labs, and development kitchens around the world. In November, Brenntag said it planned to double its annual spending on mergers and acquisitions to around $500 million, noting a goal of consolidating the industry and improving its technical capabilities. A run at Univar, which has a market capitalization of about $5.5 billion, would be far more expensive than that. Stock analysts at the investment firm Jefferies wrote to clients that a Brenntag-Univar deal would be “a sensible combination,” joining players that would command an 8% share of the global chemical distribution market. The new firm would have significant advantages over regional competitors and would “likely create a snowball effect for further industry consolidation,” they wrote. Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter 



Contact us to opt out anytime



 Article: 

 This article has been sent to the following recipient:  

 Contact the reporter 
 

 Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication 
 

 Engage with us on Twitter 
 Already have an ACS ID? 
                                    Log in
 Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter  Copyright © 2024 American Chemical Society. All Rights Reserved.