The file-sharing platform’s latest ad begs viewers to leave their laptops behind, and instead indulge in some thoroughly analogue activities It might seem counterintuitive, for a business that’s based on how much time we spend at our computers, but WeTransfer’s latest campaign is all about giving ourselves a break from the screen. It centres on a 60-second film that emphasises all the fun to be had once we close our laptop and step outside – including running through flower-filled fields, swimming in lakes, and painting. The message is delivered with a voiceover from author Roxane Gay, who reads a poem that will feel immediately relevant to the vast majority. As she notes: “What would you say? If you saw yourself wasting away. Stuck online. Inhaling content … exhaling time.” According to WeTransfer, the idea was partly informed by its 2018 Ideas Report which found that many people are more creative when they’re not glued to a screen. While the file-sharing platform might depend on our reliance on the internet, smartphones and computers, it’s also broadened its scope in recent years, and this ad reflects that. “Since the beginning of WeTransfer back in 2009, our team has envisioned technology as a tool to help humans and facilitate creativity – and nothing more,” writes the company’s president Damian Bradfield in a Medium post. He notes that technology has evolved to manipulate us, feeding us tiny dopamine hits that keep users coming back for more, and nagging at us with notifications and “constant pings” that make it hard to escape.   “People are burnt out. Creative work has suffered. And that has to change,” he concludes. There’s something quite charming about the film, and it offers a message that undoubtedly resonates. However at the same time, there’s a touch of patronising smugness that it can’t quite shrug off. Perhaps that’s because we’ve all heard the message about screen time a thousand times before – and still ignored it. Or maybe there’s something disingenuous about an online platform waxing lyrical about the joys of being offline. Or could it even be that none of us want to own up to our own unhealthy relationship with technology? wetransfer.com We speak to the founder, investor, author, speaker and internet personality about creative entrepreneurship, the underrated power of optimism, and why his agency will never – ever – go public We speak to Duolingo’s global head of social media Katherine Chan about managing the team behind its lauded social strategy and how people’s perceptions of brands are shifting in the era of individual clout We talk to co-founder Fernando Musa about how the network is evolving with age, plus how he balances his unusual dual roles as chairman at David and CEO at Ogilvy Brazil The Ice Cream Project by Anya Hindmarch is back for a third year. Here CR speaks to the founder about reworking the familiar into something extraordinary and how she’s utilised the rich history of food brands 
 The mixed media ad by AMV BBDO illustrates how a lack of knowledge about periods can be a lifelong issue CR speaks to Teemu Suviala, global chief creative officer at Landor, about how Harris is cutting through the political noise, and what lessons brands can take from her bold approach  TBWA\MCR has created simple yet potent posters that expose hostile architectural design features in our towns and cities We might reassure ourselves that there are for worse industries for the planet than advertising, but that’s before you break down all the steps involved. Maybe it’s time to do things differently? We speak to By The Network about how its global collective of independent agencies are taking on the scale of the big network model by prioritising creativity above all else As the creative industry wrestles with the pros and cons of hybrid working, new office models are emerging to cater for a range of needs Gary Hustwit’s new documentary film about the prolific producer, artist and thinker is programmed to generate alternative versions each time it’s shown. The director explains why this approach is the only reason Eno agreed to take part, and the possibilities of this technology for filmmakers Principal’s Bryan-K Lamonde discusses the art of designing ‘less’ and how he’s implemented that approach across the studio’s projects As the East ploughs billions into everything from golf tours to football leagues, we examine how brands in the West are grappling with a global sports industry in flux Dive into our showcase of the best advertising, design, craft and effectiveness of the past year Copyright © 2024 Centaur Media plc and / or its subsidiaries and licensors. All rights reserved. Built by Standfirst Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND