The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Community and finding a sense of belonging can be a challenge for people who identify as LGBTQ. Although gay bars and clubs are usually the first gathering place that comes to mind to find that community, there are other organizations like the OUT Sports League fostering fellowship and camaraderie.  John Teixeira started the League in 2018 after moving back to Central Florida from New York City.  “When Pulse happened, I was living in New York. I decided I wanted to move back to Orlando. There wasn’t a lot of community when I got here and I was very passionate about queer sports when I lived in New York, and quite frankly I wanted to create that community for Orlando,” he said. Teixeira started with kickball, but the League eventually grew to include soccer, volleyball, cornhole and dodgeball.  Related: Project CommUNITY: Pride in Florida Each sport has multiple teams that meet to play each other weekly throughout their respective seasons. After games, they meet up to talk and celebrate at a local bar. Between email, working from home, social media, dating apps, and text message conversations, so much of modern life exists behind a screen. But Teixeira hopes the League will help people connect face to face. “I mean, especially in the post-Covid world being in person matters more than anything,” he said. “Having an avenue like this allows people to just be themselves and people can like them for themselves instead of putting up a false pretense on their profile or whatnot.” Nick Mello has been a member since the beginning. “Back in the day, when I first moved here six years ago, I wanted a community; just to find my tribe,” Mello said. “I found a gay kickball league at the time, it was a different name. But I joined it and have made a ton of different friends and now it’s OUT Sports, which has been great to be a part of and making new friends each sport I play.” Fellow soccer player Shaniah Walker echoed that sentiment saying the players’ shared experience initially encouraged her to sign up to play.  “What we have in similarities. We’re all queer so it’s just nice. We don’t have to worry about trying to relate to everybody. We already have that in common,” Walker said.  “Especially for queer people there tends to be a stigma around playing sports sometimes,” Teixeira said. “Lot of people have an experience where they were growing up and they felt bullied or in a weird situation in their high school locker room or maybe they just didn’t feel like they’d be accepted. We have lots of issues right now with trans people participating in sports. This League provides an opportunity for those players to feel comfortable and safe and feel welcome in a community that will welcome them back.” That sense of community extends to a bookstore in Brevard County.  Every Friday night, Hello Again Books in Cocoa Village buzzes with activity as people gather for the shop’s weekly game night.  Owners MerryBeth Burgess and Amy Elkavich wanted to provide a place for LGBTQ+ people and allies to come together. “We moved from Atlanta to take care of Amy's mom who had Dementia and it was very hard for us to find like-minded people and to find friends because we don't drink,” Burgess said. “And we weren't going out to bars so when we opened the bookstore, we realized there was a need for LGBTQ or whoever to come out and play and have a safe space. If you don't go to bars there's not a lot out there for you, so we just wanted to create a place for people to come and just hang out.” Siobhan Darling is a regular attendee who enjoys the sense of community the shop’s game night provides. "I was born here and raised. Merritt Island. I came out as queer when I was 12 and it only took a couple years that I no longer had a home because of it so having a queer safe space just didn't exist and it's not something that I thought would ever exist,” Darling said. But she’s been pleasantly surprised by this tiny oasis in Cocoa Village. "Being able to have this space and bring my kids to this space and have a chosen family that is safe and inclusive and supportive is everything I dreamed of as a kid,” Darling said.  Hello Again Books also strives to create a welcoming environment for LGBTQ+ allies. “Allies give hope to those who are going through something to realize there are people in Brevard who will accept you,” Burgess said. The camaraderie and fellowship that OUT Sports has cultivated extend off the field as well with social outings and fundraiser events for local non-profits like the Zebra Coalition. “It’s important for us to let people know we’re just like other people. We just want to have a fun time. Play sports. And be like everybody else. And this League, I hope, will let people understand that’s all we’re here to do,” Teixeira said.  Top headlines:  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.