Niko Kavadas’s trip home was cut in half. “It was a great problem to have,” Kavadas remarked. Kavadas was supposed to be off for four days following the Portland (Maine.) Sea Dogs’ final game before the All-Star break on July 9. That changed when Portland manager Chad Epperson called Kavadas into his office after the game. Portland's home run leader is heading to the Woo!Niko Kavadas has been promoted to Triple-A and will join the WooSox presented by @Hertz pic.twitter.com/TFtzFZLyjj — Portland Sea Dogs (@PortlandSeaDogs) July 14, 2023 Instead of returning to Portland, Kavadas would join the Worcester (Mass.) Red Sox, the AAA affiliate for the MLB’s Boston Red Sox. It meant heading back to Portland on Wednesday instead of Friday, packing his belongings and catching a flight to Florida with his new team for a weekend series with the Jacksonville Jumbo Shrimp. “It was a surreal experience,” Kavadas said. “I was super excited and whatnot, but also, I had to alter all of my travel plans. It was really hectic.” Home for Kavadas is Northern Indiana. It’s where he played baseball until he was 22 years old, following up a standout prep career at Penn High School with an even more impressive collegiate one at Notre Dame. In his senior season in South Bend, Kavadas led a program resurgence for the Fighting Irish, reaching the Super Regionals before losing to eventual national champion, Mississippi State. In 47 games, Kavadas belted 22 home runs, 64 RBIs and an on base + slugging total of 1.240. From 2021: Kavadas, Kohlhepp named All-Americans by D1Baseball Kavadas has been on an upward trajectory ever since college. Selected in the 11th round of the MLB draft, Kavadas played eight games for the Red Sox’s rookie league team in Florida before getting seven games with the single-A Salem Red Sox to end the 2021 season. He started in Salem in 2022, appearing in 59 games before moving to high-A Greenville (S.C.). Kavadas barely spent six weeks with the Drive, earning another promotion — this time to double-A Portland — for the final month of the Sea Dogs’ 2022 campaign. Kavadas played 102 total minor league games last year, batting .280 batting with a .443 on-base percentage to go along with 26 home runs and 86 RBIs. He drew 102 walks, which Kavadas believes is a big reason why he’s moving through the Red Sox farm system so quickly. “Even when I’m not hitting the ball over the wall or things like that, I’m still able to work walks and help our team win,” Kavadas said. “When you have bad days where you’re 0-for-3, but you can draw two walks, you’re still able to be productive for the team. I think they see that, and they value that.” Kavadas played 69 games for Portland this year before being called up to Worcester. In that time, he totaled 14 homers, 42 RBIs and 63 walks. He’s only made 13 plate appearances for Worcester heading into Thursday night, but he already has three hits and three walks. It's a three-run BLAST from Niko Kavadas for his 13th homer of the season❗️❗️ pic.twitter.com/Z10OC7OLtw — Portland Sea Dogs (@PortlandSeaDogs) July 3, 2023 While hitting has always been a strong suit for Kavadas, he credits his work on defense for helping him reach Triple-A. “Coming out of college, I was an all-bat profile,” Kavadas said. “I needed to take it upon myself to be more agile left-to-right and also be more secure in my hands and my ability to pick the ball. I think I’ve made big strides, defensively, this year, which is partially responsible for being eligible for a promotion.” Even though he’s been busy with his own career, Kavadas has kept tabs on his two alma mater’s. Penn has won back-to-back Class 4A state baseball championships, while Notre Dame made it to the College World Series in 2022. Kavadas noted he and Penn senior-to-be RJ Cromartie have been in contact, given Cromartie has committed to Notre Dame for college already. “For him to have his success is really exciting,” Kavadas said. “He’s a guy that I’ve talked to a little bit; we went to the same hitting instructor, Mike Martz, out in Sturgis, Michigan. I’m really excited for RJ and that Penn team, and I’m excited for RJ as he moves on to South Bend.” Kavadas’s high school coach, Greg Dikos, has been keeping track of his career since he graduated from Penn in 2017. “I’ve had a few former players in minor leagues,” Dikos noted, “But Triple-A is by far the closest I’ve come to have someone in the big leagues. We’re rooting for him and everything he’s accomplished.” Kavadas knows he has to remain focused on the task at hand if he wants to reach the major league level. “The MLB is the goal, and everything that happens between now and then is just preparing you for that goal,” Kavadas said. “It’s just about taking each day and thinking about, ‘What can I do each day to make myself one step closer to making it to that ultimate goal?’ You can’t take anything for granted, and you have to continue to work every single day to get to that ultimate goal.” This article originally appeared on South Bend Tribune: Red Sox prospects: Niko Kavadas thrives after promotion to Triple-A Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.