The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Two teen boys were found shot to death in a remote area of Palm Bay known as 'The Compound' on Christmas night.  Police said someone called 911 after finding a dead body in a ditch in a wooded area of The Compound. It was around 8:30 p.m. when officers found two bodies: a 14-year-old and a 16-year-old. On Tuesday, family members identified the 14-year-old killed as Jeremiah Brown. Brown’s family released a statement expressing their grief and had a message for people about gun violence. “Jeremiah had a short but well-lived life... Jeremiah was very kind, loving and respectful," the message read. "We pray for the person or persons that committed this heinous act. Buying a gun is easier than buying a pack of gum from a grocery store. Jeremiah Brown came from a family of love not hate." Palm Bay police said it's been confirmed that six shots that were fired hit the victims.  The area where the teens were found, The Compound, is a nearly 3,000-acre open expanse in southwest Palm Bay.  "I'm not aware of any vehicles that were present and we still don't know why these teens were out here, especially on Christmas night at that time of night,"  Lt. Michael Roberts of the Palm Bay Police Department said. "Certainly disturbing," said a dirt bike rider, who did not want to be identified.  The Compound is a popular site for dirt bike and ATV riders "Mostly off-road riding," said a dirt bike rider, who did not want to be identified.  The city says The Compound is not a recreational area open to the public. The reason that it is mostly open fields and dirt roads now is because a company that was developing it went bankrupt back in the '90s.  The land was sold to now mostly private owners who have kept it undeveloped for now. The wide open space attracts a variety of visitors from model airplane enthusiasts to gun enthusiasts.  "I’ve been coming out here for the hobbies, model airplaning and whatnot," resident Roger Holloway said.  Piles of shotgun shells have been found in the dirt at the bottom of signs that warn shooting there is illegal.    "They typically shoot from this side to there, but you can clearly see someone has done a number on that sign," said a dirt bike rider, who did not want to be identified.  Holloway says he was at The Compound on Christmas and didn't see anything out of the ordinary, but later, when he went home down the road, he saw a lot of emergency responders pass by.    "Just a normal, couple dirt bikes out running. I come out looking for the model airplaners, but I don’t think there were any out much that day. But you hear the guys out here shooting guns all the time. They’re not supposed to, but they do it anyway," Holloway said.  Police describe the area as secluded.  "There’s no real residents. There’s no through traffic out there. So trying to find any investigative leads at this point is very difficult," Roberts said. Roberts said detectives are working around the clock and hope people will come forward to help them figure out what happened.  "Given the sheer volume of 12.2 square miles, it’s almost physically impossible to be able to shut down a landmass of that size. We are out there. We are proactive and enforcing all of those laws and enforcing people to make sure that they’re aware of some of the hazards that have happened. But as of right now, that’s about the best we can do as far as the agency goes and staying proactive out there," he said.  Police are asking anyone with information to call 321-952-3456 or contact Crimeline at 1-800-423-TIPS. Watch the full update from police below:  




 Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.