
			‘There was never the remotest suggestion that she was playing comedy,’ said the BBC sitcom’s writer. ‘In her hands it was all utterly real’
		 Doreen Mantle, who has died aged 97, was the actress best known for playing Victor Meldrew’s exasperating neighbour Mrs Warboys in One Foot in the Grave, the BBC’s long-running sitcom about an elderly man’s frustrations and the macabre side of Middle England. A veteran of the stage, having won an Olivier as Linda in the National’s Death of a Salesman, Doreen Mantle brought a simmering madness and painful sincerity to Mrs Warboys that elevated her into one of the great comic foils on British television. “She didn’t have any backstory, so I sort of had to make it up as I went along,” she recalled. “I concluded she was well-meaning but not very intelligent; she’d make these terrible mistakes and not realise.” Dispatched to the dry cleaners to pick up one of Victor’s suits, Mrs Warboys returns with a gorilla costume: “She said they got almost all the beetroot out if you didn’t look too closely. Myself, I can hardly see a thing.” She badgers Victor into agreeing to adopt a deceased neighbour’s dog, without noticing that it is stuffed. Warned about muggings, she arms herself with a hand grenade she finds buried in the garden. One Foot in the Grave ran from 1990 to 2001, attracting 18m viewers at its peak. Doreen Mantle had never done a sitcom before – and this, according to the show’s writer, David Renwick, was the secret of her success. “The honesty that she brought to every line, however bizarre, was what made the character so funny and legitimised even the maddest of moments. There was never the remotest suggestion that she was playing comedy: in her hands it was all utterly real.” Doreen June Mantle was born to English parents, Barnett and Hilda, in Johannesburg, South Africa, on June 22 1926. After graduating in social studies from the University of Witwatersrand, she worked for black legal aid (where she met Nelson Mandela, then a young lawyer) and became a case worker for a children’s charity. Aged 23, however, utterly dispirited by apartheid, she travelled to London. She had already acted and made radio programmes in South Africa with the BBC, which sent over figures like Ian Messiter (creator of Just a Minute). In London, she made her stage debut in 1949, in a now-forgotten two-hander called Hoops of Steel, with a performance that The Stage singled out as “excellent”, despite the flimsiness of her character. In 1953, she married (Joshua) Graham Smith, an engine sales manager; in 1954 they settled permanently in London, and she spent much of the next two decades with Colchester rep, earning consistently favourable reviews – for instance, as a retired prostitute entangled with an elderly captain of industry in a 1965 play by Saul Bellow, Orange Soufflé – but the productions were relatively small, and her availability was limited by the birth of two sons, in 1955 and 1957, which forced her to turn down a tour with the RSC. To fill the gaps, she worked as a London tour guide. Her theatrical break came late, in 1972, thanks to a lunchtime production at the King’s Head in Islington of a William Trevor piece about loneliness, in which she played a 39-year-old undermatron unburdening herself to a schoolboy she is chaperoning on a train; the boy takes a sadistic delight in embarrassing her and the British Rail waiter trying to serve them. At the end, a piece of luggage falls on her head (the young Alan Rickman was stage manager) and she speaks the last line in tears. The theatre critic Harold Hobson wrote: “All London should see this play but all London won’t get in.” One who did was television producer Joan Kemp-Welch, who thought Doreen Mantle deserved a wider audience, and turned it into a half-hour ITV play, called Miss Fanshaw’s Story (1973). Doreen Mantle went on to star in two more William Trevor plays, The Stage noting her “remarkable flair for portraying women who have loneliness eating their hearts away”. In 1973, David Storey’s Farm at the Royal Court gave her her first West End transfer; the next came in 1976, in The Seagull opposite Alan Bates. In 1977, she starred as Mrs Marx in a BBC Two three-parter about Eleanor Marx, written by a young Andrew Davies (who went on to adapt House of Cards, Pride and Prejudice and War and Peace). The zenith of her stage career came thanks to the American director Michael Rudman, who perceived her as a brilliantly simple actress, “standing firm for the uncluttered accuracy of emotion”, and cast her as Linda Loman in his 1979 production of Death of a Salesman at the National Theatre. Arthur Miller himself came to London to see the previews, and took her to tea, telling her he didn’t care about the part of Linda, and she could do what she liked with it. Her interpretation of Linda as far more knowing and aware than she had been played before won her an Olivier for Best Supporting Actress. She returned to the National’s stage three more times, for Tales from the Vienna Woods (2003), The Voysey Inheritance (2006) and Waste (2015). Fame came too late for her to play many of the roles she would have liked – such as Shakespeare’s Rosalind – but she was grateful not to be typecast as the harassed mother or the middle-class understanding friend. On stage, she impressed in Robin Lefevre’s 1981 touring production of Ronald Harwood’s The Dresser, and in 84 Charing Cross Road, dramatising a 20-year correspondence between a New Yorker and a London antiquarian bookseller, at the Ambassador’s in 1982, just after she had finished filming Barbra Streisand’s Yentl (1983), in which she played Mrs Shaemen. It was not her big-screen debut – that was the 1967 sci-fi comedy musical Privilege; she also had fleeting scenes in Hitchcock’s Frenzy, Ken Loach’s Blackjack and The French Lieutenant’s Woman – but Yentl was her first meaty film role, and, arguably, her last, until the aptly named 2012 film Late Bloomers, where she stole the show from Isabella Rossellini, William Hurt, Joanna Lumley and Simon Callow with acerbic one-liners about her grandchildren like: “I don’t know which I hate more, future suits or future sluts.” But the small screen loved her, and alongside One Foot in the Grave, she appeared in The Duchess of Duke Street, The Wild House, Sam Saturday, Chalk, Casualty, The Bill, Doctors, Doc Martin, Holby City, Lovejoy, Jonathan Creek, Father Brown, Dirk Gently and Jam and Jerusalem, in which she played a hapless lollipop lady. In 2010, she entered Coronation Street as Joy Fishwick, who shouts “You buried my son under a knicker factory!” before dying, sensationally, at the hands of John Stape (Graeme Hawley). She also did a great deal of work on Radio 4. From her South African youth, she retained a burning social conscience and, had she not been an actress, would have liked to work at the Citizens’ Advice Bureau. She campaigned on behalf of the visually impaired (“You don’t get a dress rehearsal for being blind,” she said. “No one really understands it until it happens to them”), worked for Aids charities, launched the campaign Handymanage, to provide isolated elderly people with handymen, and was on Stage for Age, a celebrity committee of Help the Aged, and The Actors’ Charitable Trust. She devoured the newspapers and was a brilliant cook in the austerity mode, wringing flavour from giblets and tongues. Her marriage to Graham Smith ended in divorce, and he predeceased her in 1988. She is survived by her two sons. Doreen Mantle, born June 22 1926, died August 9 2023