 Alabama Crimson Tide head coach Nick Saban arrives at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport Monday, Dec. 26, 2022, for Alabama's Sugar Bowl matchup against the Kansas State Wildcats on New Year's Day. (Photo by Scott Threlkeld, NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune | The New Orleans Advocate) In case you may have missed any of Wilson Alexander and Scott Rabalais' great stories from Southeastern Conference media days, catch up here: • How Mississippi State feels Mike Leach's presence, even though the Bulldogs moved forward • Scott Rabalais: As wins have mounted for Georgia, so have self-inflicted issues • Scott Rabalais: If Auburn can rehab a coach Hugh Freeze, maybe there's hope for Will Wade • Jayden Daniels has grown in his 2nd year at LSU: 'It's like he has taken over the team' • Scott Rabalais: LSU coach Brian Kelly not ducking expectations of second-year success As for the rest of the teams, here's the lineup for the third session of SEC media days Thursday in Nashville, Tennessee: ON STAGE: 9 a.m. COACH: Nick Saban PLAYERS: OL JC Latham, CB Kool-Aid McKinstry, DE Dallas Turner THE BUZZ: When your program has gone 24-4 over the past two years and the fan base is concerned that you might have lost a step ... yeah, you've been pretty successful. Alabama will still probably begin this season as the Western Division favorite, but first, Nick Saban must choose a starting quarterback from among three candidates: Jalen Milroe, Ty Simpson and Notre Dame transfer Tyler Buchner. ON STAGE: 10:30 a.m. COACH: Sam Pittman PLAYERS: DE Landon Jackson, QB KJ Jefferson, RB Raheim Sanders THE BUZZ: Pittman seemed like the right coach for Arkansas almost from the moment he took over in 2020, but the Razorbacks slipped last season, dropping four of their first five SEC games. Pittman is probably not in trouble (yet), and with his easygoing nature, he won't look like a coach in distress, either. Arkansas brings back one of the SEC's best quarterbacks, KJ Jefferson, but must fix its defense, which ranked last in the league. ON STAGE: 1 p.m. COACH: Billy Napier PLAYERS: OL Kingsley Eguakun, CB Jason Marshall Jr., WR Ricky Pearsall THE BUZZ: Napier, the former Ragin' Cajuns coach, did not have a Kelly-esque debut at Florida, where a 6-7 season ended with an ugly, mail-it-in bowl loss, stoking fears that the Gators have whiffed on their third straight coaching search (Jim McElwain and Dan Mullen preceded Napier). Florida has to hope Wisconsin transfer Graham Mertz stabilizes the QB position, and the Gators do have the No. 3 recruiting class for 2024. ON STAGE: 2:20 p.m. COACH: Mark Stoops PLAYERS: OL Eli Cox, DL Octavious Oxendine, LB J.J. Weaver THE BUZZ: Stoops, the second-longest tenured coach in the SEC, has made Kentucky the proverbial tough out — but if he's satisfied with that, he isn't acting like it. Stoops said during the spring that his team, coming off a 7-6 record, had “no leaders right now.” His job is getting tougher, too. Though no one expects UK to contend with Georgia, the reemergence of East rivals Tennessee and South Carolina will make wins harder to come by.   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: