Cloudy early, becoming mostly sunny this afternoon. High around 75F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 51F. Winds NE at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 4:34 am  Today in Johnson City History March 4, 1898: One hundred and twenty-five years ago today, The Knoxville Sentinel reported, “The following important news from the Johnson City Staff is of interest:” “Another matter which the board of trade now has in hand, and for which negotiations are pending is to effect an arrangement whereby the E. T. & W. N. C. railway will be changed into standard gauge from here to Elizabethton, with a third rail for the narrow gauge trains to run on. The object of this scheme is to make connection with the Bristol & Elizabethton road at the latter place, making a direct line from Johnson City to Bristol, thus securing a lower freight rate to Johnson City.” Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Would you like to be in contact with Rebecca Henderson? Do you have a comment or a suggestion about today's column? Reach out to her at rhenderson@johnsoncitypress.com.     
                    Sign up to receive news and updates from this site directly to your desktop.
                 
                    Click on the bell icon to manage your notifications at any time.
                 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.