The US gov is offering a cool $10 million for certain information 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 A joint Cybersecurity Advisory by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has issued a series of protective measures to help reduce the impact of attacks being carried out by the CL0P Ransomware Gang. The long-standing ransomware group, also known as TA505, is currently targeting a vulnerability in the MOVEit file transfer software (CVE-2023-3436), and has reportedly stolen data from underlying MOVEit Transfer databases. Now, though, there is a reward up for grabs for anybody able to draw links between the gang and foreign governments. The US State Department Rewards for Justice Program announced in a Tweet: “Do you have info linking CL0P Ransomware Gang or any other malicious cyber actors targeting U.S. critical infrastructure to a foreign government? Send us a tip. You could be eligible for a reward.” > The best firewalls

> Clop ransomware hackers hit a million US healthcare customers

> Clop ransomware gang admits MoveIT attack following Microsoft accusation The US is most concerned about extortion threats, unauthorized access, and destruction relating to critical and protected infrastructure, including those used in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce or communication. Rewards for Justice is welcoming any information via Signal, Telegram, WhatsApp, and its Tor-based tip line. Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! The supporting post details plans to make rewards of up to $10 million available to those able to provide “information leading to the identification or location of any person who, while acting at the direction or under the control of a foreign government, participates in malicious cyber activities against US critical infrastructure in violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA).” It also reports that “possible relocation and rewards payments by cryptocurrency may be available to eligible sources.” While it is not known who is behind the group, its name is believed to be derived from the Russian word ‘klop,’ which means bedbug (via Sangfor). It is also believed that CL0P was behind Tasmanian Government attacks earlier this year. With several years’ experience freelancing in tech and automotive circles, Craig’s specific interests lie in technology that is designed to better our lives, including AI and ML, productivity aids, and smart fitness. He is also passionate about cars and the decarbonisation of personal transportation. As an avid bargain-hunter, you can be sure that any deal Craig finds is top value! Microsoft patches Windows security flaw exploited by North Korean hackers — but is it too late? This expert thinks he has found some major security flaws with the MacOS app store Microsoft apps on MacOS apparently have some serious security flaws TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 