NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Coronation Street lines up another action-packed week, so get yourself a first look at all the upcoming drama with our picture gallery above.  With big developments for Amy Barlow (Elle Mulvaney) and Stephen Reid (Todd Boyce), next week is not one to be missed.  Tracy (Kate Ford) calls at the police station and glues herself to the counter, explaining to the desk sergeant that she’s not going anywhere until they take Amy’s rape allegation seriously.  Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson) and Amy arrive at the station to find Tracy about to give an interview to Suki, the reporter from the Gazette, but Amy begs her mum not to go ahead with it, before subsequently changing her story. Stephen, meanwhile, faces a number of setbacks during the week in question, as Elaine Jones (Paula Wilcox) reminds him that, in order for them to buy a house together, the solicitor needs proof of funds.  When Michael Bailey (Ryan Russell) reveals that he’s promised the girls an even bigger bonus off the back of the new deal, Stephen masks his fury and calls Rufus in a bid to try and renegotiate. To complicate matters even further for the killer, Carla Connor (Alison King) subsequently returns to work! Sean Wilson's 'lawyers involved' as new details emerge on Corrie's Martin Platt crisis Coronation Street legend quits job in dramatic video Coronation Street confirms baby twist as legend reels in new spoiler videos Coronation Street exit story confirmed for fan-favourite as she prepares to leave Is she about to catch the murderer out?  Elsewhere on the street, Faye Windass (Ellie Leach) asks Craig Tinker (Colson Smith) to come round to meet Miley, but how will Faye feel about him inviting mum Beth (Lisa George) along too? Coronation Street airs these scenes w/c Monday April 3 on ITV1 and ITVX.  If you’ve got a soap or TV story, video or pictures get in touch by emailing us soaps@metro.co.uk – we’d love to hear from you. Join the community by leaving a comment below and stay updated on all things soaps on our homepage. 

	MORE : Coronation Street’s Maureen Lipman reveals Cerberus’ death brought back painful memories and she ‘needed something to stop crying’

 

	MORE : 12 soap spoiler pictures: EastEnders deadly crash, Coronation Street Tracy destroys Amy, Emmerdale proposal, Hollyoaks dangerous union

 Sign up for daily Soaps updates and our weekly Editor’s special for juicy exclusives and interviews. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed