Kai Havertz is on the verge of completing a £65million transfer to Arsenal from Chelsea, thus becoming Mikel Arteta's first major signing of the summer window Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters The deal hasn't been officially announced yet but details of Kai Havertz's £65million transfer to Arsenal have been leaked online. After reaching an agreement with Chelsea last week, the Gunners moved one step closer to confirming the Germany international as their first signing of the summer window as he underwent a medical overseas at the weekend and it would appear that everything went according to plan. So much so that on Tuesday evening, images began to surface of Havertz in Arsenal's new home kit and there was also a video of his first interview with the club. All of which simply indicates that official confirmation of this deal is just a few hours away, with fans likely to keep their eyes peeled. Having said that, the images do 'reveal' that Havertz will have the No.29 on the back of his Gunners shirt. This squad number has been vacant at the Emirates Stadium since Matteo Guendouzi's departure and it allows the German to continue a trend that began after breaking into the first-team picture at former club Bayer Leverkusen.  "When I was young I always used to play FIFA or Pro Evolution Soccer with my brother. We always made ourselves in the game. I had No 10, golden shoes and things like that. My brother always put No 29 on his shirt," he told The Athletic in 2021 when explaining the reason for his shirt number choice.  "When I came to the professional game and Leverkusen asked me what number I wanted to have, I asked them which numbers were free. When they said 29, I said I’d take it because of my brother. Sometimes it’s lucky for me, sometimes not, but I like the number and now I think everybody knows me for it." READ MORE: Arsenal major transfer announcement and interview leaked ahead of official confirmation  Not only has Havertz's shirt number been leaked but his first words as an Arsenal player too. Thanks to some eagle-eyed supporters on Reddit a snippet of his interview has come to light where he reflects on swapping west London for north London.  "It's super exciting for me personally," he said.  Of course, the full interview will be released once the Gunners officially announce the signing of Havertz and the view of one supporter is that the unveiling video should include Jorginho in some form now that the pair have been reunited. Who would you keep or sell at Arsenal this summer? 