 Chris Paul and the Golden State Warriors were like Professor Xavier and Magneto from the X-Men: close friends but the most bitter of enemies. Off the court, there has been legitimate respect between Paul and the Warriors’ core for over a decade. On the court, no love was lost throughout their battles. Yet, this summer, the Warriors’ front office decided Paul could be the missing piece to their rotation and acquired him via a trade with the Washington Wizards, ending the Jordan Poole-Draymond Green drama. On paper, Paul’s addition to Golden State’s roster makes total sense, but there have been questions regarding whether the veteran guard can assimilate into his new surroundings. During a recent interview on the Slone Know YouTube channel, Paul was asked if he ever envisioned himself teaming with the Warriors in his career. “Ain’t no way,” Paul said. “There is no way. It’s so fun and kind of cool that it ain’t like a pink elephant in the room or whatnot, right? I remember me and Steph (Curry) worked out together in Vegas or whatnot, and a few of the coaches walked in, and saw me in Warriors gear. They was like, ‘This is crazy. Who would have thought?’ So the fact that we all can talk about it, and it’s not like it’s some secret like, ‘Don’t say this, or don’t say that,’ is really cool.” We’re still in the dead of the offseason, months away from understanding how Paul is going to fit with his new teammates. Or if Paul’s addition can make the impact Mike Dunleavy and the front office are hoping for. Nevertheless, Golden State has acquired one of the best playmaking guards of all time. And it would appear that everyone is willing to leave the past in the past. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Warriors Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		 





 
				© Copyright Warriors Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		