Affiliate links on Android Authority may earn us a commission. Learn more. Published onApril 19, 2024 There are plenty of options for buying and selling products online, so any new platform needs to find a way to differentiate itself. Whatnot takes another angle, harnessing the success of the popular live video sales method and centralizing it into a hub full of all types of collectors. What is Whatnot all about? We’ll cover everything you need to know about the service, so stick around. Whatnot is a community marketplace for buyers and sellers. Sounds simple, right? The main differentiator is that all sales are made through live video. This creates a social aspect in which people can interact during the process. In fact, the first time I entered a sale, the host greeted me personally, saying: “What’s up, Sasquatch? Welcome in.” The website is mainly geared toward the sale of collection items. This includes figurines, toys, trading cards, jewelry, video games, arts & crafts, and whatnot. When you sign up for a Whatnot account, you can either become a buyer or a seller. Once you’re ready to go, you must browse through the list of categories, look through the live streams, and join one. The host will talk about the product he’s selling, and geek out over the topic with all the other members. If you want to purchase any of the items, you can either bid for them or buy them immediately. The options are titled Auction or Buy Now. You can also look through the Sold and Purchased sections to see what you missed. After a purchase, the seller will ship the product and get paid for it. Whatnot is mainly meant for selling and buying collectibles, but the list of supported products is comprehensive. Here’s Whatnot’s official category list. Like any other platform, Whatnot has its good and bad sides. Let’s talk about them. The art of selling is complex. Simply posting a product on eBay may seem a bit cold and distant. With Whatnot, sellers interact with potential customers and usually have fun while doing so. People can geek out on items and ask questions live. The seller can respond to questions immediately and convince buyers to purchase an item. Additionally, some sellers do fun things like host giveaways, or randomize sales by letting a wheel decide what you win for a set prize. Collectors know how hard it is to find some products. Sometimes, getting specific items from giants like eBay or Amazon is hard. Because Whatnot is full of like-minded fans of the same things, you’re likely to find rare items. Whatnot acts as a mediator between buyers and sellers. You can do everything from the app to finalize a purchase. Sellers aren’t paid until a product is shipped. There’s also a process for ensuring items are authentic. Chances of fraud or scams are slim. Whatnot is a relatively new service from 2019. As such, it’s obviously not as popular as other marketplaces. The website has been getting 3.9-4.3 million visitors monthly for a few months. That’s nothing compared to the over 673-738 million monthly eBay visitors. Most people using Whatnot are like-minded individuals with similar hobbies, making each customer and seller more valuable, but numbers still help sell things. Many of us still feel like watching a livestream to buy things is a bit too much. Sometimes, I don’t want to socialize or listen to someone when I purchase something. Whatnot doesn’t give you this option. Nothing in life is free, and neither are Whatnot’s services. The company will take an 8% commission on all sales. This fee is reduced to 4% for sales in the Coins & Money category, though. Additionally, the seller will have to cover a transaction fee of 2.9% plus $0.30. This processing fee is applied to the total, including the subtotal, tax, and shipping costs. Shipping prices depend on the product’s weight, and also where you ship the product to and from. If the transaction happens within the USA, shipping starts at $3.59, and can reach $6.78, for up to 1lb of weight. Whatnot breaks down its US shipping costs here, and you can learn more about international shipping here. If you want to try Whatnot, all you have to do is go to the website and sign up for an account. You can also download the Android and iOS apps. Whatnot is a startup founded by Grant LaFontaine and Logan Head. LaFontaine is also the current CEO.  Whatnot’s headquarters is in Marina del Rey, California. It’s part of the Los Angeles area. Yes. Whatnot takes an 8% fee from every item sold, unless you are selling Coins & Money, in which case the fee is reduced to 4%. Additionally, it charges transaction fees of 2.9% of the total cost and an extra $0.30. Whatnot doesn’t usually allow returns, because of the nature of most products sold on the platform. These are mainly used and sold as is. There are some exceptions, though. You can get items refunded if they are damaged during shipping, damage doesn’t match listing photos, if you get an incorrect item, if the item has no images and doesn’t match the description, or if the item is counterfeit.  You can request to cancel an order on Whatnot as long as the seller hasn’t printed the order’s shipping label, or within 24 hours after you place the order, even if the label has been printed. That said, all Whatnot sales are final. It’s up to the seller to accept or deny a cancellation request. Whatnot ships to the USA, Canada, the UK, and most other countries. It will also ship to PO/APO/FPO addresses. This only helps buyers, though. Sellers must be in the USA, Canada, France, Germany, or the UK.