Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Click “See First” under the “Following” tab to see Legit.ng News on your Facebook News Feed!  A man has ended his relationship with a lady because she refused to delete TikTok from her smartphone. In a series of chats leaked on social media, the lady visited the man, but he refused to open his door for her to come in. The man insisted that the lady must delete the TikTok app on her phone and send her evidence before she would be allowed into the house. Read also "I am not happy": Lady begs man she turned down 1 year ago, he embarrasses her on WhatsApp, chats leak When he refused to open the door, the lady warned him in the leaked chats that if she eventually left, she would never return, but the man rebuffed her. PAY ATTENTION: Join Legit.ng Telegram channel! Never miss important updates! He kept on insisting that he did not want the TikTok app on her phone and that leaving it there would mean picking the app over him. The lady left after refusing to delete the popular app. The leaked chats were posted by @jon_d_doe. See the chats below: @Official_Omegaa said: Read also "She is attractive": Curvy lady with small stature dances and shakes waist with man, wideo trends on TikTok @okikiola_r said: @Folashade_RP said: In a related story, Legit.ng reported that a lady married a man she met on Whatsapp. The lady said she saw the man's number in a Whatsapp group, and she chatted him up. They later fell in love and got married in 2022 after dating for two years. Source: Legit.ng 

                Israel Usulor                                    (Human-Interest editor)
                            
Israel Usulor is a journalist who has 9 years of experience. He worked at The Prime Newspaper and has published articles in TheCable Newspaper. Israel graduated with distinction from Fidei Polytechnic (Mass Commun, 2016). Israel has interviewed Zannah Mustapha, the man who helped negotiate the release of Chibok Girls, and Kunle Adeyanju, who rode a bike from London to Lagos. He covered exclusive stories on Chef Dami during her Guinness World Records cookathon. Email: israel.usulor@corp.legit.ng.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you