Former New York Giants linebacker Blake Martinez abruptly retired from the NFL in November of 2022. The announcement came just one month after he had signed with the Las Vegas Raiders. Martinez later revealed that the decision came following the sale a rare Pokémon card for more than $650,000. He then dove head-first into the hobby, amassing more than $5 million in just seven months. “Every single day when I wake up, my shoulder doesn’t hurt and my back doesn’t hurt anymore,” Martinez said at the time, via CNBC. “When all that hurts are my fingers from opening, like, 1,000 packs of cards per day, I think, ‘I’m going to keep doing this.'” Martinez quickly opened multiple warehouses and established “Blake’s Breaks,” an entity that employed more than 20 people and livestreamed Pokémon card openings for 16 hours a day. A little under the year mark, Martinez’s total sales had reportedly eclipsed $11 million. However, things took a turn for the worst on Friday when Whatnot, a popular marketplace application, permanently banned “Blake’s Breaks” and all of their individual employees, alleging “misconduct.” We have refunded all buyers impacted by the infractions. If you believe you were affected by an incident on his streams, please submit the details here, and we will investigate: https://t.co/u1qXaCUgIF — Whatnot (@Whatnot) August 4, 2023 Whatnot did not provide specific details into what was discovered during their investigation, but Pokémon YouTuber “Rattle Pokemon” published an eight-part series breaking down what he believed to be scams carried out by Martinez and Blake’s Breaks. Prior to his Whatnot ban, Martinez did offer an apology of sorts, acknowledging that the “optics” of one of his team’s breaks did not look good. “I understand the optics,” Martinez said. “I understand how it looks, trust me. I know the type of business I run. I know the type of decisions I made across the board. “I made a good amount of money — everybody knows, in the NFL — I knew stepping into this was going to have a target on my back. “I know people that come in here, spend their hard-earned money that they could spend elsewhere — and I want this to be a safe space. I’m definitely going to take this as a learning experience … and I’m going to make an improvement.” Martinez said the person (“Snee”) who ran the break that initially raised red flags had “no ill intent whatsoever” but would no longer be running breaks for his company. That same person also offered an apology of their own. Martinez has not yet addressed the Whatnot ban publicly or the allegations by Rattle Pokemon, who invited Martinez onto his platform to discuss the accusations, Whatnot ban and the seemingly shady behavior. For the best local North Jersey news, sports, entertainment and culture coverage, subscribe to NorthJersey.com. Story originally appeared on Giants Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs.