The Castlewood Ravens, Milbank Firechiefs, Lake Norden Lakers and Volga Cormorants each picked up Eastern Dakota League amateur baseball wins and Groton down Clark-Willow Lake in American Legion baseball on Sunday. Here's some highlights from each of the games: CASTLEWOOD — Four Castlewood pitchers combined on a five-inning no-hitter and the Ravens plated eight runs in the bottom of the first to take control of the game early. Castlewood (1-0 overall and in the EDL) took control early with eight runs in the bottom of the first inning and notched the five-inning victory. Tucker Wookey went 3-for-3 with two doubles and two runs batted in and Jacob Tisher 3-for-5 with a triple, four runs scored and three RBIs to lead the Ravens. Gus Stieger and Ben Althoff each added two hits. Nick Geffre, Stieger, Kellan Benck and Braedon Zaug each doubled. Geffre and Sam Stroup plated two runs apiece. Benck, Alex Gauer, Wookey and Tisher each pitched for Castlewood. Gauer went two innings and the other three one inning each. The Ravens host Elkton at 8 p.m. on Wednesday. ELKTON — Dom Boerger fired a two-hit shutout with 22 strikeouts and also drove in three runs with a double and a single for Milbank (1-0 overall and in the EDL). Mitch Quade went 3-for-4 with a double and three runs batted in for the Firechiefs, who broke open a scoreless game with four runs in the seventh and six more in the eighth. Aiden Stewart doubled and Logan Kuehl singled for Elkton. Stewart carried a shutout into the seventh and finished with 13 strikeouts in 6 2/3 innings. LAKE NORDEN — Jordon Johnson and Josh Cleveland combined on a four-hitter to lift Lake Norden (1-2 overall and 1-0 in the EDL) to victory. Johnson tossed six scoreless innings, allowing two hits with 10 strikeouts for the win. Cleveland went three innings for the save, recording six strikeouts. Tony Campbell drove in three runs with two hits and Cleveland added a double and single for the Lakers. Mick Tulson added two RBIs. Wesley Jones went 2-for-4 and Bryce DesLauriers doubled for Clark (2-1, 1-1). Jones whiffed eight batters in 6 1/3 innings. Lake Norden hosts Volga at 8 p.m. on Wednesday. Clark visits the Castlewood Monarchs on Friday. VOLGA — The Volga Cormorants grabbed the lead with a four-run second inning and put the victory away with a five-run eighth inning. Volga (1-0 overall and in the EDL) produced 12 hits in the win. Bayley Colemer went 3-for-5 with a double and six runs batted and Dylen Milton also doubled as part of a three-hit performance. Zach Puetz also had two hits adn joined Layne Lucas and Noah Puetz with doubles. C Christopherson added a triple. Dylan Vosburg went six innings for the viftory. Kyler Tvedt, Luke Steffensen and Jacob Steffensen had two hits each for the Monarchs (0-1 and 0-1). Both of Luke Steffensen's hits were doubles. The Monarchs host Clark at 8 p.m. on Friday. CLARK — Ryan Groeblinghoff, Bradin Althoff and Logan Riggenberg combined for 10 hits and 13 runs batted in to power Groton to the American Legion baseball win. Groeblinghoff went 4-for-4 with two doubles, four runs scored and four RBIs; Althoff 3-for-5 with a double, home run, three runs scored and five RBIs and Ringgenberg 3-for-4 with four RBIs. Cade Larson added three hits. Althoff also notched the win on the mound. Jakob Steen doubled to lead the Senators (2-2). Follow Watertown Public Opinion sports reporter Roger Merriam on Twitter @PO_Sports. This article originally appeared on Watertown Public Opinion: Weekend amateur and American Legion baseball highlights for area teams Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC.