A retired Russian fighter jet flying in Yankee Air Museum’s Thunder Over Michigan Airshow at the Willow Run Airport near Ypsilanti crashed Sunday afternoon, as thousands of spectators, including children, watched in horror. The two aboard ejected before the jet went down just after 4 p.m., but when the plane it the ground, it burst into a raging fireball, narrowly missing an apartment building adjacent to Interstate 94 in Van Buren Township and hitting vehicles but not injuring anyone. Emergency crews rushed to extinguish the flames. The latest: What we know about the fighter jet crash at Thunder Over Michigan air show The plane, a former Soviet — now Russian — MiG-23 aircraft, was doing aerial maneuvers. It was not immediately clear what malfunction led the two aboard to eject and the jet to crash. The Federal Aviation Administration is investigating. Videos taken by spectators appeared to show an explosion before the two people in the jet ejected. "The pilot and backseater successfully ejected from the aircraft before the crash," Randy Wimbley, a spokesman for the Wayne County Airport Authority said. "While it did not appear they sustained any significant injuries, first responders transported the pair to a nearby hospital as a precaution." The plane, Wimbley said, crashed into the parking lot at the Waverly on the Lake Apartments on Denton Road at the I-94 service drive, striking unoccupied vehicles, but "no one at the apartment complex nor the air show was injured." A photo posted on Facebook showed what appeared to be the charred tail section of the plane just feet away from one of the apartment buildings. Video of plane crashing at the Thunder Over Michigan Air Show and pilots parachuting. Hoping everyone is ok. #thunderovermichigan pic.twitter.com/RtAAjw7OVV — Dan Phillips (@danphillips46) August 13, 2023 By some accounts, the MiG-23 — which can go faster than the speed of sound — has a cockpit that was considered an improvement over previous Soviet fighters with a more ergonomic layout. But pilot visibility reportedly was poor and the ejection seat wrapped around the pilot's head. Sunday's crash falls on the heels of two fatal ones last month as an air show was underway in Oshkosh, Wisconsin. A helicopter and a gyrocopter collided in midair, leaving two dead and two injured. Two others died earlier in the day when a single-engine plane went into nearby Lake Winnebago. In 2011, there was a death at the air show at the Selfridge Air National Guard Base in Harrison Township, when a wing walker attempted to go from a plane to a helicopter too early, lunging for the chopper skid before the two aircraft were in position, according to the crash investigation. On Sunday, witnesses — including people who were not at the air show but close enough to see it — posted video of the crash to social media. They described a loud boom and then plumes of dark smoke rising south of the airport. Willow Run Air Show Crash pic.twitter.com/2cvrUuKbmC — Eli Mainecoon (@dmaier13) August 13, 2023 The pilot, listed as Dan Filer in the program, and backseater can be seen ejecting, as their parachutes opened and eased them back to the ground. Some media accounts reported the two were in stable condition after being rescued. In one video, a witness's voice could he heard saying, "Oh my God." The two-day show was celebrating its 25th anniversary, and Sunday was the last day. Please pray for everyone’s safety - a jet went down at Thunder Over Michigan Air Show but pilot was able to eject. So scary! Photo of reported jet beforehand (MiG). #thunderovermichigan #airshow pic.twitter.com/UbeKP3whCC — Rachel Keiko Schramm (@rachieschramm) August 13, 2023 Matthew Gerick, who was at the show, watched the two people eject, and then the plane zoom to the ground. "Like, did we just watch that happen?" he told the Free Press he thought after the plane went down. "I was sitting over on Beck Road watching the plane fly out toward (I-)94 when it kept getting lower and lower. Then my wife and I saw the black smoke so we drove down to see the crash on 94 and it landed right next to the apartment building." Contact Frank Witsil: 313-222-5022 or fwitsil@freepress.com. Free Press reporters Jasmin Barmore and Kylie Martin contributed. This article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press: Jet crashes, pilot ejected during Thunder Over Michigan Airshow New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.