Since the term was first used in 2014 by Gavin Wood, Web3 has witnessed tremendous growth. According to a report from Emergen Research, the Web3 blockchain sector is expected to hit over $81 billion in valuation by 2030. A relatively new frontier of the internet, Web3 leverages blockchain technology tools to champion platform democratization. Notable Web3 segments like DeFi (decentralized finance) and GameFi (game finance) have greatly impacted the finance and gaming industries. The emergence of decentralized wireless (DeWi) as a new segment of Web3 undoubtedly has similar potential for the internet space. DeWi refers to projects focusing on decentralizing wireless network infrastructures to guarantee unrestricted access to anyone, irrespective of national borders. With over one billion internet connections secured and more than 160 app downloads in the App Store and Google Play, WiFi Map is at the forefront of the mission to revolutionize the internet and make it available and accessible to all. By extension, it is also helping to boost the reputation of DeWi. An emerging frontier in the Web3 space, DeWi deploys blockchain technologies such as utility tokens to ensure that networks have income-generating potential for their users and communities. The idea is that a positive feedback loop can be generated between the solid earning potential for users within the network and improvements to network coverage. DeWi networks can be built out with the help of WiFi, the Internet of Things (IoT), cellular data and more. Furthermore, DeWi can be remarkably efficient, allowing it to bring down costs for people getting online and make internet connections available to all.  WiFi Map is the brainchild of two friends, Igor Goldenberg and Denis Skylarov, who came up with the project idea after they were frustrated when trying to find free WiFi abroad. It is a decentralized, community-based ecosystem designed to allow community members to share information about WiFi hotspots within their area. The founders’ vision was to build a decentralized platform where people can easily find and share WiFi hotspots, thus creating a global network that allows people to stay connected to the internet irrespective of their location, all of the time. WiFi Map provides two of the three core components of DeWi networks, with eSIM mobile data packages and a repository of millions of WiFi hotspots worldwide. After its recent $WIFI token launch, WiFi Map immediately became a model example of a DeWi ecosystem thanks to its large user base and range of service. The initial token launch was executed through the TrustSwap Launchpad on March 30, 2023. The token generation event (TGE) then took place on April 7, 2023, with token listings following soon after on several exchanges in OKX, Huobi, Poloniex, Gate.io, MEXC, and BingX. Community members can buy and hold the $WIFI token directly inside the WiFi Map app and then use it to access premium features. Current utilities include redeeming $WIFI for eSIM data, connecting to earn by adding hotspots to the platform and participating in monthly airdrops, trading on exchanges, and receiving up to 15% cashback when buying mobile data using $WiFi. With close to 4 billion people still lacking access to a stable internet connection, WiFi Map is well positioned to lead the DeWi revolution. Launching the $WiFi token and entering the DeWi space is undoubtedly a game changer, and WiFi Map is on course to build the world’s biggest community-powered internet platform. Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Since recent years FinTech tools have shown us  a world of possibilities for small... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... In the ever-fluctuating realm of cryptocurrencies, astute investors should seize the moment to broaden... Artificial intelligence (AI) and automation are no longer just for large corporations; they are... If there’s one thing every sharp contributor knows, it’s that presales are the sweet... Hunting for the best long-term crypto investments? There’s a lot to unpack right now. ... Credit scores have become a critical metric in determining one’s financial standing, affecting everything... Since 2024 AI (Artificial Intelligence) has undoubtedly revolutionized the investment landscape, giving small business... RCO Finance (RCOF) offers early investors a unique opportunity to become crypto millionaires through... Prodapt opens  America’s innovation center in Dallas, Texas. Takeaway Points Prodapt opens America’s innovation... Gamers are always on the lookout for the best and newest games in the... Network International deploys industry-leading FICO Falcon Fraud Manager across MEA to help drive down... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.