Dec. 31—The Federal Communications Commission recently released a new map showing what it believes is the type and speed of internet service that is now available to every household in East Texas. The map was built with information from internet providers, including those in our region. Rural leaders from throughout Texas have voiced concerns that the map exaggerates the actual service that is available to Texans, especially those in rural communities. There is a process for individual households and communities to challenge the map data, and the East Texas Council of Governments is urging residents to look at the map and report inaccuracies. ETCOG is working on a region-wide bulk challenge; however, individual household challenges are an important part of this process. Why is this so important? More than $40 Billion from the Federal Government will soon be sent to states to expand internet connections. The new FCC map will determine how that money is allocated among the states, with funding allocated based on the number of unconnected homes on the map. ETCOG's goal is to help ensure the State of Texas receives its fair share of this funding. If only one percent of the map is inaccurate, 100,000 or more Texas homes could remain unserved. The problem is thought to be even greater in rural areas, where some estimates are that the inaccuracies may be as high as 25 percent. In East Texas, that could equate to more than 30-40,000 homes. The timeline to participate in the challenge process is short. The deadline for challenges is Jan. 13. The process requires household residents to review their addresses on the map and report, with evidence, any errors. How to Submit a Challenge To look at your residence on the map, go to www.broadbandmap.fcc.gov/home. Households that do not have internet access can get help at their local library or use the WIFI at a local fast-food restaurant. On the home page, you can place your address in the "search by address" window, which will show your location on the map. It will also show the internet providers at your home and the type of service each provides. Once an address is entered, the map will zoom in and show what has been reported as available. The Texas Broadband Development Office has also provided more details on how to submit a challenge at www.comptroller.texas.gov/programs/broadband/communities/maps/fcc. As many who most need the service may not be able to get onto the internet to complete the task, you may contact ETCOG at 903-918-6400 for help. Challenges can be based on several bases, including that the provider denied a request for service, demanded excessive connection fees, or failed to schedule an installation within 10 business days of a request. Once a challenge is filed, providers are required to review the challenge and either concede or dispute it within 60 days. Reasons you can submit an availability challenge as described by the Texas Broadband Office include: —The provider failed to schedule a service installation within 10 business days of a request. —The provider did not install the service at the agreed-upon time. —Provider requested more than the standard installation fee to connect this location. —The provider denied the request for service. —The provider does not offer the technology or service type at this location. —The reported speed is not available for purchase. —Subscribed speed is not achievable. (Individuals only can select this option (on the map), but it won't create a challenge.) —No wireless signal is available at this location. —New, non-standard equipment is required to connect this location. If one of the services listed is not actually offered to the selected location, or if the providers listed do not actually serve your location, you can submit an availability challenge. About ETCOG The East Texas Council of Governments is a voluntary association of counties, cities, school districts, and special districts within the fourteen-county East Texas region. ETCOG assists local governments in planning for common needs, cooperating for mutual benefit, and coordinating for sound regional development. Established in 1970, ETCOG, either directly or through its contractors, provides programs and services for East Texas seniors, employers, and job seekers. ETCOG and its contractors also build the 9-1-1 emergency call delivery system, provide peace officer training and homeland security planning services, and deliver rural transportation services, business finance programs and environmental grant funding for the region. To find out more, visit www.etcog.org. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.