Receive the latest in local entertainment news in your inbox weekly! The final trailer for Killers of the Flower Moon.   Martin Scorsese’s “Killers of the Flower Moon” is coming soon to cinema screens. To much of the world, a movie equals entertainment. “But for the Osage, this is their life, this is their story, and they are still dealing with the repercussions of it,” Cara Jade Myers said. “If I can get that point across and people take this seriously and they see that and get past the entertainment aspect of it and really focus on the reality of it, I will be happy.” Based on David Grann’s best-selling book of the same name, “Killers of the Flower Moon” weaves a personal story into the tragedy of the “reign of terror” that victimized the Osage Nation. Oil brought wealth to the tribe in the early days of Oklahoma. Who stands to benefit when serial murders in the Osage Nation occur? JaNae Collins, Lily Gladstone, Cara Jade Myers and Jillian Dion are shown in an image from “Killers of the Flower Moon.” Myers is in the “Killers of the Flower Moon” cast alongside Leonardo DiCaprio, Robert De Niro, Lily Gladstone, Jesse Plemons, Tantoo Cardinal, John Lithgow and Brendan Fraser. Myers took part in a phone interview with the Tulsa World prior to the SAG-AFTRA strike, and the interview was preserved until the month of the arrival of “Killers of the Flower Moon.” The film carries an Oct. 20 release date, but tickets are being sold for Oct. 19 screenings. An Arizona-born, Indigenous actress, Myers plays Anna Brown, a sister to Gladstone’s character, in “Killers of the Flower Moon.” “I was just hoping for an audition,” Myers said “As call-backs kept coming for this, I was getting more and more excited and more hopeful that I would be able to play Miss Anna Brown, and eventually that happened. I got cast as her, and it was a pretty life-changing moment.” Myers targeted that role? “I loved Anna, always,” she said. “I feel like her story is so tragic, but she had such a beautiful, carefree, adventurous soul. Of course you resonate with Mollie (Gladstone’s character) because her entire family is slowly being taken away from her. ... But when I was auditioning, I auditioned for all the characters and I kept coming back to Anna and they kept having me audition for Anna and I was so excited about that.” Cara Jade Myers was cast as Anna Brown in “Killers of the Flower Moon.” Myers said everyone calls Anna a wild card. But Myers again used the word “adventurous.” “She wasn’t afraid to explore the new world around here, but she still very much loved her family,” she said. “For me, Anna had such a big heart, but she maybe didn’t make the best choices. One of the things I was very conscious of was the fact that she drinks a lot. Everyone thinks she is this willy-nilly party girl who just drinks to have fun.” Myers said she talked to Scorsese about that topic before shooting. “I told him I wanted the alcoholism to stem from her pain, and she is covering it up with alcohol,” she said. “At her sister’s funeral, I asked if Hale (De Niro’s character) could hand her a flask and maybe that would start her into alcoholism, and that’s the start of the spiral down. Throughout filming, I had the same flask, so that really connected the story that, at the funeral of her best friend — her sister — that’s the start of the pain and how she started coping with it, which wasn’t the best, but that’s what she did.” Myers read the book “Killers of the Flower Moon” before she knew it was destined to be a film. It blew her mind that the Osage Nation reign of terror was such a big story and yet it had not been taught in history classes. “I always tell people you have to read the book,” she said. “Read it before and then watch the movie. Or watch the movie and read it and then watch the movie again because you will see so many things in a different way after reading that book. You will understand these things more.”   Myers read a related book, “A Pipe for February,” for prep work for the film and because she wanted to be more informed. She loves storytelling in many forms, but didn’t begin to pursue acting until she was in her 20s. She said her husband asked what she wanted to do with the rest of her life. Prodded by the question, she began taking classes and fell in love with acting. “I think one of the reasons I never thought about acting when I was younger is because (Natives) don’t see ourselves on TV and, when we do, it’s leathers and feathers from the 1700s or 1800s where it’s hard for a modern child to connect to it,” she said. “That’s why I am so excited for a show like ‘Rez Dogs’ or ‘Prey.’ Our youth can actually connect with it and see themselves up there and realize their stories are valid and their stories are worth telling and we can get more people into the industry on whatever level they want to be in — writer, director, actor, sound, boom, grip, anything. The more people that are Native and in the industry, the more that our stories will be told accurately.” Myers began sobbing (in a good way) when she learned in November of 2020 she had won a role in “Killers of the Flower Moon.” She said her husband was emotional, too, because he knew how long and hard she had worked for this kind of role. Her husband was there when Myers got the good-news call, but she was warned she couldn’t tell anyone else until casting had been released to the press. Jillian Dion, Tantoo Cardinal, Leonardo DiCaprio, Lily Gladstone, Martin Scorsese, Robert De Niro and Cara Jade Myers were photographed May 20 prior to the Cannes Film Festival world premiere of Apple Original Films' "Killers Of The Flower Moon." Said Myers, “I didn’t even tell my mom because my mom, as soon as she hears something, she would tell my aunt and then my aunt would tell my other aunt and my other aunt would tell my grandma and then basically everyone knows.” Myers reported for duty in Oklahoma and found herself in the company of Academy Award winners. “That was definitely surreal to me to think I could get cast next to these insanely talented and legendary people and I get to work with them,” she said. “I got on set and it was awesome watching Marty and De Niro and Leo talk through a scene and I am just sitting there two feet from them, like, ‘how in the heck am I here right now?’ And then they are like ‘action!,’ and I am like, ‘OK, let’s go act now.’” Myers attended a world premiere in Cannes and a special screening in Tulsa for the Osage Nation. She wanted to get an honest and immediate reaction from the Osage people “because it’s their story and if they are not happy, then we didn’t do our jobs.” A lot of feedback was positive, according to Myers. She said people thanked her for bringing the story (and the sisters in the film) to life. But some at the Osage Nation preview didn’t know how to process what they had just seen. “I think it’s one of those movies that the immediate reaction is this is amazing because we have Native actors being seen in very prominent roles with these legendary actors and a legendary director,” Myers said. “Once you get past that, I think it is one of those things that it is a lot to process, and I hope this makes people stop and think and actually come to terms with the fact that this is a real story and this really did happen.” JaNae Collins, Cara Jade Myers, Robert De Niro, Martin Scorsese, Director, Lily Gladstone, Leonardo DiCaprio and Jillian Dion were photographed on the red carpet before the Cannes Film Festival world premiere of Apple Original Films' "Killers of the Flower Moon."  Myers said a person sitting next to her was crying within 15 minutes of the start of the film. Myers shared a tissue with the person and, at the end of the film, asked “are you OK?” “And he just kind of nodded and sat there in silence,” she said. “You could tell he was definitely processing it. I just hope that we are there to kind of help support the Osage even after the movie comes out and that we are there to be on their side and make sure that we are still doing what they would like us to do.” Appearing in “Killers of the Flower Moon” might juice the careers of Myers and other cast members. Asked what the film could do for her, Myers said she’s just grateful Native stories are being told. “I’m hopeful not for me, but for the entire Native community and the Native entertainment part of the community that it creates jobs and creates knowledge and creates a way to tell our stories and we have that freedom to do it,” she said. “I am just hopeful that we keep going and that more and more people see the story and, the more people that see it, they will talk about it and hopefully real change can happen and more people will know about this and actually want to do something about these terrible things that happened.” Users can customize the app so you see the stories most important to you. You can also sign up for personalized notifications so you don't miss any important news. If you're on your phone, download it here now: Apple Store or Google Play     Cara Jade Myers will play Anna Brown in “Killers of the Flower Moon,” a soon-to-be released Martin Scorsese film about the Osage Nation “reign of terror.” “I tell people it’s a unique story, but it’s not singular across Native country,” Myers said. “Talk to any tribe and they have kind of trauma or tragedy associated with colonialism. Having this story told, especially by such an important director and amazing director — that he took the time and consideration to ask the tribe and consult the tribe and involve the tribe is amazing. It’s a story that needs to be told, and I’m hoping that this makes it to where more Native stories will be told.” You aren’t just playing a character in “Killers of the Flower Moon.” You’re playing a “real” person whose family members may have been watching during the Osage Nation preview. “I had people come up with tears in their eyes saying ‘I’m a relative of Anna, and thank you for telling her story.’ I’m like, 'thank you for letting me be a part of it.' I’m the one that is grateful, and I’m the one that is thankful to even be a small part of this. I know how important of a story it is, and I’m glad the world is going to see it.” Spoiler free, what do you want to say about the movie? “I love it. I think Scorsese did the best he could do with such a traumatic story, the traumatic history. It’s that fine line between telling the truth and then just preaching. You know what I’m saying? I think he did great at just bringing it to life and involving the Osage and getting their opinion and making sure he was doing it right. I love it that that happened, and I think that really shows in the movie because there are so many things that are Osage-specific that you aren’t going to catch unless you spent time with them. I love that so much. I’m just really excited for the world to see it and for people to start talking about it and getting conversations going about it.” Winning awards isn’t the most important thing, but the pre-release buzz suggests “Killers of the Flower Moon” and its actors will be nominated for awards. “I think that this movie winning awards would show other people, like Hollywood and writers and studios, that Native American stories are relevant and Native American stories can make money and they are worthy of being told because, right now, I feel like a lot of our stories are being pushed aside because they think the Native population is so small that no one will relate to it. To me, I’m like, if a woman is losing her entire family, how is that not relatable? It doesn’t matter what nationality she is. I am hoping that will start shifting the industry to more inclusion and more stories because right now we have two shows — ‘Rez Dogs’ and ‘Dark Winds’ — and 'Rez Dogs' (has ended). Right now the only movie we are talking about is ‘Prey,’ which is an amazing movie. But it’s like we should have more than two shows and one movie to talk about.” Receive the latest in local entertainment news in your inbox weekly! The final trailer for Killers of the Flower Moon.       Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.