The Almanac 
					Menlo Park, Atherton, Portola Valley, Woodside				 
 It’s our mission to inform the community through fact-based journalism, hold government accountable, and build deeper relationships through coverage that makes a difference in people's daily lives. We rely on community support to continue our mission. Support local news today. Traffic lanes were reopening this afternoon, after Menlo Park police asked the public to avoid Willow and Bay roads near the U.S. Highway 101 interchange due to a water main break caused the closure of Willow Road in both directions early Thursday morning, July 20.
 Police in Menlo Park had asked the public to avoid Willow and Bay roads near the area. Police announced at 5:48 a.m. that traffic on southbound Bay and Van Buren roads would be re-routed northbound.
 A spokesperson for the Menlo Park Police Department told The Almanac that as of noon, the eastbound lanes on Willow Road were open, but a westbound lane was still partially blocked and crews were doing repair work.
 City Clerk Judi Herren told The Almanac on July 25 that a contractor crew accidentally struck the water main while doing excavation work, and that city crews finalized repairs and cleaned up the area the same day that the break occurred.
 Cameron Rebosio contributed to this report.  You must be logged in to post a comment. Join us at the Palo Alto Baylands on Friday, Sept. 20th for a family-friendly 5K Walk, 5K Run, 10K Run or Half Marathon. This benefit event is hosted by Embarcadero Media Foundation and presented by the City of Palo Alto. All proceeds help support nonprofits supporting local families and kids. Sign up today and receive a discount. © CopyrightEmbarcadero Media Foundation  You’ve read all free articles for the month.  Register now and getfive free articles every month. Gain unlimited access to The Almanac. Already have an account? Sign In.Trouble with your login information? Get help. 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																Privacy Policy																	
