The US government today designated three new offshore wind areas in the Central Atlantic that could potentially host 4 to 8 gigawatts (GW) of clean energy production.  The US Bureau of Ocean Energy Management’s (BOEM) three new Wind Energy Areas (WEAs) are off the coasts of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. The WEAs together total about 356,550 acres: BOEM says the three WEAs were developed following “extensive engagement and feedback from states, Tribes, local residents, ocean users, federal government partners, and other members of the public.” It says it may identify additional WEAs in deep-water areas off the US Central Atlantic coast for future leasing once further study of the areas is complete. The Biden administration’s goal of achieving 30 GW of offshore wind energy capacity by 2030 is extremely ambitious – and it’s also vital, as the US, the world’s No 2 CO2 emitter behind China – needs to fulfill its commitment to the Paris Agreement to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5C. So it’s no wonder that the BOEM has been moving to rapidly advance the fledgling US offshore wind industry. In May 2022, an offshore wind lease auction off the Carolinas was successfully completed. In October 2022, it announced the first-ever floating offshore wind energy lease sale off central and northern California, which was held in December. And just 11 days ago, the US Department of the Interior announced that it’s going to hold the first-ever offshore wind energy lease sale in the Gulf of Mexico. This pivotal and monumental shift to renewables in the US energy sector is not only crucial, it’s also an exciting and historical thing to witness. Read more: New Jersey’s first offshore wind farm hits a milestone – and one county is fighting all of it Photo: Vineyard Wind 1 If you’re considering going solar, it’s always a good idea to get quotes from a few installers. To make sure you find a trusted, reliable solar installer near you that offers competitive pricing, check out EnergySage, a free service that makes it easy for you to go solar. It has hundreds of pre-vetted solar installers competing for your business, ensuring you get high-quality solutions and save 20-30% compared to going it alone. Plus, it’s free to use, and you won’t get sales calls until you select an installer and share your phone number with them. Your personalized solar quotes are easy to compare online and you’ll get access to unbiased Energy Advisors to help you every step of the way. Get started here. –ad* FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast. Electrek Green Energy Brief: A daily technical, … Michelle Lewis is a writer and editor on Electrek and an editor on DroneDJ, 9to5Mac, and 9to5Google. She lives in White River Junction, Vermont. She has previously worked for Fast Company, the Guardian, News Deeply, Time, and others. Message Michelle on Twitter or at michelle@9to5mac.com. Check out her personal blog. 
										Light, durable, quick: I'll never go back.									 
										Because I don't want to wait for the best of British TV.									 Manage push notifications