 Since King Charles has a well-known passion for flowers and plants, royal fans expect gorgeous floral arrangements at his Coronation this spring. Although preparations for the international event on May 6 are well underway, the flower arrangements won't be shared with the public until the morning of the event.  BloomingHaus.com has used its expertise in creating flower displays for some high-profile events in the UK to offer its predictions for the Coronation. While the new King will not be carrying a bouquet at his Coronation, royal fans can anticipate seeing Camilla, the new Queen Consort, holding a floral arrangement full of symbolic meaning. Melissa Man, Blooming Haus's Events Manager, clarified: "For her wedding, the Queen Consort selected a delicate posy of white, yellow, and lavender primroses and lily of the valley. "Camilla's favourite bloom is the Alchemilla Mollis. The bright green scalloped edge leaves and yellow flowers could create a beautiful foliage backdrop that colourful blooms can shine against. READ MORE: Flower with hidden link to Diana predicted to feature at coronation  "We would also love to see scented sweet peas, bright cornflowers, mint and basil, and dainty forget-me-nots and creating a fresh new take on a traditional British posy rather than a large bouquet, in line with the streamlined Coronation celebrations themselves." King Charles, 74, is a longtime supporter of sustainability and might be the first British ruler to make florals a centrepiece of the Coronation.  But it is also likely that King Charles will pay tribute to the four nations in the United Kingdom, just like his late mother did in 1953. The Creative Strategist at Blooming Haus Jonathan Thorneycroft explained: "Queen Elizabeth II's Coronation Bouquet was made up of white flowers, orchids and lilies-of-the-valley from England and Wales, stephanotis from Scotland, and carnations from Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man.   Don't miss... Princess Beatrice broke tradition at wedding with different bouquet [LATEST] Zara and Mike 'lift the mood' at 'frosty' royal events - expert claims [BODY LANGUAGE] Queen Elizabeth's beloved home Balmoral Castle opens today [PROPERTY] We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy "As independence movements become more vocal, we expect the new King to signify diversity and unity between the four nations by including flowers symbolic to each country – Roses for England, Bluebells for Scotland, Daffodils for Wales, and the Shamrock for Northern Island." The bouquets for the late Queen's funeral in September were reported to have been directly overseen by King Charles.  Myrtle, which was grown from the same plant that supplied a sprig for the bouquet she carried during her 1947 wedding to Prince Phillip, was included in the foliage he used. The lead florist at Blooming Haus Michalina Botor commented: "Interwoven into floral tributes to the late Queen were rosemary, a symbol of remembrance and English Oak, a symbol of strength, alongside pine from the gardens at Balmoral and lavender and foliage from the gardens at Windsor. READ MORE: Queen's deeply personal wreath includes flower used in wedding bouquet  "Given his deep love for his 'darling Mama', Charles will likely honour the Queen and his father, Prince Philip, by including flowers they loved." King Charles stated in 2020 that the delphinium is his favourite flower. The King said: "For me, the magnificent, gloriously apparelled delphinium, with its impeccable bearing and massed in platoons, holds pride of place in my botanical affections." Michael Dariane, the Head of Operations at Blooming Haus, commented: "The towering Delphinium is the regal King of the cottage garden, with wonderful bold, striking flowers symbolising positivity.   "They start coming into season at the end of March, and we are sure they will be used to add height to arrangements at the Coronation and a splash of colour." Michal Kowalski, the chief florist at Blooming Haus, explained what the lasting legacy of the flowers at King Charles's Coronation will be. He said: "The flowers used for the King's Coronation will set the tone for the botanical style of the Carolean (first used to describe the reign of Charles II) age. "It's a key moment for designers and tastemakers worldwide and will set new benchmarks in modern fashion."  SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?