
Windstream, a privately held communications and software company, has been named a Top Diversity Employer, Top LGBTQ+ Employer and Top Supplier Diversity Program for 2023 by Black EOE Journal.

 
"We are excited to be recognized for our diversity and inclusion initiatives for the fourth time by Black EOE Journal," said Mary Michaels, chief human resources officer at Windstream. "Windstream values the authenticity and uniqueness of our people and their ideas. We believe the diverse voices of our employees help drive our long-term success and enable us to better serve our customers."

 
Windstream's Black Professionals Network is an employee resource group that is committed to providing a supportive environment for Black employees that promotes opportunities for personal and professional development, while also enhancing cultural awareness and inclusion across the company. WBPN inspires and supports Windstream's efforts regarding outreach, recruiting, and retention in the African-American community.

 
The Black EOE Journal results are published in the magazine's summer issue, available this month on newsstands. Black EOE Journal is published by DiversityComm, Inc.

 
Each year, DiversityComm, Inc. (DCI) and its six diversity magazines conduct select evaluations of the nation's Employers, Supplier Diversity Programs, Industry Leaders, Law Enforcement & Government Agencies and Schools. The evaluations also integrate findings by each magazine independently to identify "Best of the Best" in relation to outreach and accessibility to the minority, veteran, female, people with disabilities and LGBTQ+ population. These non-biased studies are a valuable resource for the publication's readers, jobseekers, business owners, students, senior management, and consumers.

 
More information about DCI's "Best of the Best" can be found here.

 
About DiversityComm, Inc.
 
DiversityComm, Inc. (DCI) is the proud publisher of six nationally recognized diversity focused magazines: Black EOE Journal, HISPANIC Network Magazine, Professional WOMAN'S Magazine, U.S. Veterans Magazine, Diversity in STEAM Magazine, and DIVERSEability Magazine. Each magazine has its own engaging website, distribution, and digital edition. In addition, we publish a bi-monthly e-newsletter that reaches all of our readers, subscribers and clients. If one of your goals is diversity branding, global diversity, diversity recruiting or supplier diversity, then look no further. With more than 25 years of experience in diversity & inclusion advertising, each publication now reaches over 2 million readers.

 
About Windstream
 
Windstream Holdings is a privately held communications and software company. Windstream offers managed communications services, including SD-WAN and UCaaS, and high-capacity bandwidth and transport services to businesses across the U.S. The company also provides premium broadband, entertainment and security services through an enhanced fiber network to consumers and small and midsize businesses primarily in rural areas in 18 states. Additional information is available at windstream.com. Follow us on Twitter at @Windstream.

 
Category: Corporate

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230712065471/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.