Mental health experts weigh in on EMDR therapy, Reiki, psychic readings, and more. During my darkest hours, there is a constant refrain playing on a loop. It goes, “if you want to learn more about the Real Housewives…visit BravoTV.com”  That’s because reality television has been my therapy for years. It started with Keeping Up With The Kardashians when I was home sick with mono in high school, and moved into The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills during a tough spot in my 20s.  PSA: I don’t mean this literally—I see a medical doctor and not Lisa Vanderpump for my mental health advice. But there is a unique brand of ease that can only be achieved through watching a group of five to seven glamorous and successful women tear each other to shreds. Call it my own version of a Xananx smoothie a la Lisa Rinna.  But more and more, we are seeing alternative therapy and healing take place on the screen. From Jax Taylor’s dalliance with Reiki on Vanderpump Rules to Whitney Rose’s healing journey on The Real Housewives of Salt Lake City, it seems every show has mental health care moments that seem intended to educate fans, but often just leave them (read: me) raising their eyebrows.  It’s not just eagle-eyed viewers who are skeptical. Mental health experts are mixed on the effectiveness of the therapies shown on some of our favorite Bravo shows, including EMDR therapy in Beverly Hills, a shaman-led cacao ceremony in Salt Lake City, and a straight-up “exorcism” in Orange County. But one thing they agree on: More exposure to people seeking help for their mental health struggles, no matter the healing modality of choice, is always a good thing.  In fact, it’s no surprise that these alternative practices have made their way into the mainstream, says Dr. Elisabeth Netherton, MD, a psychiatrist and the director of Mind Path Women’s Health in Houston, Texas.  Meet the Experts: Dr. Elisabeth Netherton, MD, is a psychiatrist, an assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Baylor College of Medicine, and the director of Mindpath Women’s Health in Houston. Dr. Sam Zand, DO, is a psychiatrist and the co-founder and Chief Medical Officer of Better U, an online mental health organization that utilizes psychedelic therapy, functional neurology, and other alternative mental health modalities. Dr. Natalie Bernstein, PhD, is a clinical psychologist and a Reiki practitioner based in Pittsburgh. “This reflects an increasing openness to mental wellbeing as part of our culture that will only continue in coming years,” says Dr. Netherton. “There is a general understanding of the need for mental health care.” But Dr. Netherton cautions, “A doctor has a fiduciary duty to their patient. A psychic does not; they are running a private business.”  Ahead, Dr. Netherton, Dr. Sam Zand, DO, a psychiatrist and Chief Medical Officer of Better U, and Dr. Natalie Bernstein, PhD, a psychologist and Reiki practitioner based in Pittsburgh, share their takes on a few recent alternative therapy/reality television crossovers.  On the most recent season of RHOBH, viewers watched a disturbing break-in at Dorit and PK Kemsley’s home. The reality TV personality  was home alone with the couple’s two young children, Jagger and Phoenix, who were sleeping in the next room when the burglary occurred. Dorit was held at gunpoint as she begged the robbers to spare her children’s lives. Though the burglars left Dorit physically unharmed, she was traumatized by the experience and sought professional help through EMDR therapy.  EMDR, which stands for “eye movement desensitization and reprocessing,” is recommended by the World Health Organization as a treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. So it’s not only a legitimate practice, but also a logical next step for Dorit to take on her healing journey. “[EMDR] was born out of the idea that our memories can be sort of re-guided based on eye movement,” says Bernstein. “And that in doing these eye movements, we can replace traumatic memories with positive ones.”  For example, during an EMDR session, a therapist might tell their patient to think about something traumatic and then use random eye movements to throw off the train of thought. “You are alternating stimuli to the brain to scramble away an emotion in a sense,” Zand explains. Performing seemingly “random” eye and hand motions requires you to use different parts of your brain, which can disrupt your brain's natural association with traumatic memories. In the clip on Beverly Hills, Dorit is told to envision being held to the ground with a gun to her head, which may seem jarring for viewers, but is not totally uncommon for an EMDR session, Zand and Bernstein said.  But Zand notes that usually, a practitioner would ease into the crux of the trauma. “If we dive immediately into the trauma, you can have a flashback,” he says. “So we might start with something smaller from childhood to gauge your reaction.”  As this is reality television and not an in-depth, peer-reviewed study into EMDR therapy, viewers saw only about 10 seconds of Dorit's therapy session, so it's quite possible her practitioner followed this method, but without firsthand confirmation, it's difficult to know what really happened. (Again, it’s worth noting that while these “as seen on TV” therapies are interesting and potentially helpful, the experts recommend doing your own outside research to see if this is the right treatment for you and your specific mental health needs.) After the therapy session Dorit—in full glam, naturally—pops out for a bougie lunch with Erika Jayne. While being in a supportive environment with friends can be helpful after a trauma therapy session, all of the experts encourage a more low-key interaction following EMDR.  “It should be a very intentionally planned outing,” says Zand. “We are creating a conducive environment to be uplifted, supported, and not focused on the trauma.”  As important as it is to work through traumatic events,  it is even more important to feel safe to set it down after some tough inner work, adds Dr. Netherton. So if that looks like a Beverly Hills outing in designer garb, so be it!  In the most recent season of the show, White Rose opens up about her individual healing journey after recently uncovering some memories of abuse from her childhood. Throughout the first few episodes, viewers have a front row seat as she works through this trauma with various healing modalities. It makes for some pretty inspiring (albeit at times goofy) television.  This leads all the RHOSLC ladies to participate in a group healing session spearheaded by Whitney during their cast trip to Arizona in episode two.  Kseniya, who is identified as a shaman, leads the group in a blanket-clad outdoor ceremony where the ladies sip a cacao drink and discuss what they would like to “release” or heal from. Jen Shah releases the fear of her impending trial and calls in innocence, Whitney calls in oneness, and there are a lot of tears.  The ladies then participate in some breathwork while lying down on yoga mats and eventually scream into the night. Sounds like a solid girl's trip if you ask me, and the medical professionals sort of agreed.  The shaman on the show calls the cacao elixir a “heart opener” that will help the women tap into deeper emotions. Dr. Netherton says she has not seen any medical evidence to support that. Zand, though, advocates for use of the drink. “It helps improve blood flow to the brain and the heart and is high in magnesium which can help with anxiety,” he says, adding, “anything ceremonial and spiritualistic can help us tap into our emotions.” However, that increased willingness to feel comfortable and share may be due more to a psychosomatic effect than any of the ingredients in cacao. For those who want to try working with a shaman themselves, all the experts recommend doing your research before booking a healing session. You don’t want to pick a “club promoter turned shaman,” jokes Zand. And anyone who says you are holding on to a bad curse that can be cured for a few hundred dollars is a major red flag, adds Bernstein.  As for the individual elements of this healing session, all experts agree that breathing, especially under the guidance of someone trained in breathwork, can be calming to most people.  But when it comes to  screaming, Dr. Netherton remains a bit skeptical, adding that she hasn’t seen the research on primal yelling. Zand, though, says it could give people a chance to expel pent-up energy and reduce stress levels through a release of cortisol. It’s also a bonding experience, like laughing with someone or sharing a personal story.   After a trip to Cabo in the most recent season of RHOC, Gina Kirschenheiter believes she has picked up a “dark energy.” Enter Shauna, the psychic/medium, for a truly captivating few moments of television that Bravo dubs her “exorcism.” Gina explains that they went to a “very indigenous” sweat lodge for a ritual, but she left early because she had a panic attack. Shauna warns Gina that if a ritual is not closed, people are at risk of bringing bad energies home with them. Gina is appalled, as she did not declare her bad energy in customs, and feels like the whole thing is overall “gross.”   Shauna proceeds to pull the bad energy out of Gina’s mouth as if she is pulling on a piece of string.  Bernstein, who is a Housewives fan and watched this episode at home, said she doesn’t buy it. This is unlike any healing practice she has seen or heard of before. When I explain the scene to Dr. Netherton, she agrees. She says she is not familiar with any medical explanation for pulling invisible strings of bad vibes out of a person’s mouth.  Instead, Dr. Netherton says she would encourage someone in Gina’s position to seek help from a medical professional, like working with a therapist, especially if they are feeling vulnerable. Ultimately though, if partaking in a psychic ritual makes the individual feel better—even in the short term—it can be a net positive, she says.  Zand, however, isn’t opposed to this technique. He just urges anyone undergoing any such healing method to check the person’s credentials and training. You’re looking for someone with many positive reviews and a proven success record.  “Even though these healing methods don’t have an FDA stamp of approval doesn’t mean they don’t work,” he says. “If there is a belief system there, so many times, we can release negative energy through meditation, mindfulness, or many other methods.”  In an effort to “make it nice” with her new co-stars, Dorinda plans a sound healing experience for the ladies upon their arrival at her house in the Berkshires. “I get right into that sort of thing; I think it centers you,” Dorinda says as viewers watch her sound healer of choice unpack tuning forks and singing bowls. And let me tell you, watching Phaedra Park, Brandi Glanville, Jill Zarin, and the rest of the cast lay down for a peaceful moment on a yoga moment is just as hilarious as it sounds.  In fact, Tamra Judge tells us in a confessional, “I don’t know what the f*** a sound bath is.”   Nevertheless, Dorinda and the sound bather persist for about an hour of healing music.  “Different frequencies lend themselves to different brain waves and emotional states,” says Bernstein, who personally loves sound baths. She has a playlist of healing sounds on her phone, and encourages her clients to make them as well.  While Dr. Netherton says there is no medical evidence on this method yet, it’s a classic example of a practice that’s essentially harmless. “I would just hate for that to be a substitute for an evaluation with a therapist or psychiatrist,” she cautions.  Like Bernstein, Zand is a big believer in sound healing and even calls it a “massage for the nervous system.” This practice goes back to ancient cultures, he says, particularly in Egypt where people would gather to be healed by music. “We receive vibrational healing from these techniques,” Zand explains.  As VPR legend Stassi Schroeder once said, “Jax and meltdown go together like pizza and ranch.” So it definitely took viewers by surprise when he went on a healing journey of his own in season six following some volatile drunken blowups across the Los Angeles area. (Longtime fans were even more surprised when he asked his healer to call him Jason, but I digress.)  The method of Jax’s choice was Reiki, a form of energy healing. To practice it, one lays down on a table, as seen in the show, and the person administering the healing touches different energy centers or chakras on the other person’s body, explains Bernstein, who is also a Reiki practitioner.  “Reiki can be really effective if you are open to the idea,” she says. “If you are relaxed enough, the energy healing can release some of the emotions you have stored up.” She adds that during talk therapy sessions, her clients will unconsciously touch their throat chakra when they are having difficulty expressing themselves.  Zand agrees Reiki can be helpful if the person is open to it. “There are so many studies that contrast a Reiki practitioner with placebo, and you see an improvement in medical health for those being tested across vital signs and blood pressure,” he says. It can also help calm the nervous system, according to Zand and Bernstein.  Dr. Netherton, however, is not familiar with Reiki, and while it doesn’t sound harmful, she would encourage a complementary treatment.  “When someone is having an explosive outburst, we want to get to the root of what’s causing that,” Dr. Netherton says. She recommends that someone who is struggling with expressing themself in a productive way engage in cognitive behavioral therapy to explore their thoughts and learn how to change their behaviors. During a notably tense time in RHOA history, Nene Leakes brought in the big guns, namely a medium named Mbele to help the ladies come back together. While well intended, the event is not a success, and Mbele and Kim Zolciak-Biermann have an explosive argument about who is closer to God.  All that aside, Mbele does connect with some of the ladies. She tells Sheree Whitfield she needs to “know when you want to start and when you want to end.” She also tells Cynthia Bailey that her boyfriend Will is using her.  Any medium sharing negative information makes Bernstein concerned. She says that true mediums and psychics will only guide a person toward their future rather than issuing an edict.  “I think there are qualified psychics and mediums out there; I really do,” she adds. “But finding them is important.” She encourages people to read reviews and not approach someone like this if you are feeling vulnerable.    As thoroughly entertaining (and honestly interesting!) as it is to watch these moments of vulnerability and spirituality play out on television, the experts say it’s important to take it all with a grain of salt. While these practices may very well help viewers, or just open them to new and different ways to take care of themselves, outside research is vital. When working on something as important and vulnerable as mental health care, it’s important to know you’re working with a pro. Jacqueline Tempera is an award-winning writer and reporter living in New Jersey with her many pets. She is a business owner and a double Scorpio who loves all things astrology and reality television. She is passionate about body diversity and representation, mental health, and the fight to end sexual assault and harassment. To learn more about Jackie, follow her on Instagram @jacktemp or visit her website at jackietempera.com.  The Pros And Cons Of Cycling For Weight Loss What To Do When You’ve Hit A Weight Loss Plateau A Beginner's Guide To Volume Eating, From Experts Here's What 'Counting Your Macros' Actually Means  The Best 20-Minute Abs Workout What Happens To Your Body On A High-Fiber Diet Try This 20-Minute Leg And Butt Routine A 20-Minute Full-Body Workout You Can Do Anywhere 'My Strange Symptoms Were A Sign Of Heart Failure' This Kettlebell Workout Will Make Your Core Pop Your Guide To Weight Training For Weight Loss 'Why I Stopped Taking Mounjaro After Weight Loss' A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazins, Inc. All Rights Reserved.