The Jacksonville Jaguars’ depth has been on display in preseason where they had a come-from-behind win against the Dallas Cowboys followed by a blowout victory over the Detroit Lions. Unfortunately for the Jaguars, that leaves them with the bittersweet reality that they’ll have to part with a lot of talent next week when roster limits are slashed from 90 players all the way to 53. Jacksonville would love it if the rest of the team doesn’t claim many of those players off waivers, leaving them with a ton of practice squad options. But the reality is that the Jaguars’ deep roster could be a treasure trove for other teams. With less than a week until cut down day, here are the 53 players who appear to have a hold on a roster spot with the Jaguars: Trevor Lawrence C.J. Beathard Parting with Nathan Rourke wouldn’t be a popular move among Jaguars fans, but all signs are pointing that direction. Despite an impressive preseason so far from Rourke, Doug Pederson says Beathard will be the backup quarterback. And Rourke seems well aware of the fact that he could hit the waiver wire soon. The Jaguars haven’t carried three quarterbacks on the 53-man roster in the last couple years and it doesn’t seem like they plan on changing that in 2023. Travis Etienne Jr. Tank Bigsby JaMycal Hasty D’Ernest Johnson The Jaguars’ running back room is deep and talented, but it’s not hard to sort out. There are clear tiers with Etienne and Bigsby at the top, Hasty and Johnson battling for third, and Snoop Conner and Qadree Ollison on the outside looking in. Keeping four backs would make sense and there’s no mystery which four stand out most. Calvin Ridley Christian Kirk Zay Jones Jamal Agnew Parker Washington Tim Jones The battle for the final two spots in the wide receiving corps is probably the toughest call the Jaguars will have to make next week. Washington, a sixth-round pick with value as a returner, hasn’t done a ton to secure his place, but seems like a player the Jaguars wouldn’t want to send through the waiver wire. It’s also tough to see Jacksonville cutting ties with Tim Jones, who has slowly developed into a reliable and complete receiver with blocking ability to boot. But Jacob Harris seems to be getting real traction and Elijah Cooks has shined in preseason. The unfortunate reality is the Jaguars will have to part with some real talent at receiver. Evan Engram Brenton Strange Luke Farrell Gerrit Prince Prince hasn’t quite shined in preseason like he has in training camp, but it’s hard to see the Jaguars cutting ties. The team kept four tight ends on the roster through the 2022 season and it has every reason to do the same this year. Walker Little (LT) Ben Bartch (LG) Luke Fortner (C) Brandon Scherff (RG) Anton Harrison (RT) Tyler Shatley (OL) Cole Van Lanen (OL) Josh Wells (OL) Blake Hance (OL) Cam Robinson (OT) – won’t count against roster count while suspended The offensive line configuration was already tricky before a wave of injuries made it even more difficult to figure out. Versatility has been pushed to the forefront by the Jaguars coaching staff, and experience may be more valuable given the bumps and bruises. The toughest calls are cutting veteran tackle Josh Wells and seventh-round pick Cooper Hodges, who was coming on strong before a patella injury ended his training camp. Don’t be surprised if the Jaguars stash Hodges on the PUP list or injured reserve next week rather than cut him. Roy Robertson-Harris (DE) DaVon Hamilton (DT) Folorunso Fatukasi (DE) Adam Gotsis (DL) Jeremiah Ledbetter (DL) Tyler Lacy (DL) Dawuane Smoot (DL) – won’t count against the roster count while on PUP list Ledbetter and Lacy have solidified their place on the roster. The only question is about the severity of the medical issue that has sidelined Hamilton. If Hamilton is out for an extended time, it could open the door for seventh-round pick Raymond Vohasek to land on the roster. But the team isn’t likely to carry eight defensive linemen whenever Hamilton and Smoot are ready to go. Josh Allen Travon Walker Yasir Abdullah Jordan Smith Parting with K’Lavon Chaisson would raise eyebrows, especially when Jaguars coaches were calling him the No. 3 pass rusher at the beginning of camp. Since then, Chaisson’s done little to show he should be on the roster, while Abdullah and Smith have shown flashes. Foye Oluokun Devin Lloyd Chad Muma Ventrell Miller Caleb Johnson After the clear top three, Miller and Shaq Quarterman are battling for the fourth spot on the depth chart. The advantage goes to the player who was just picked in the fourth round. Johnson earns a spot because of his special teams prowess. Tyson Campbell Darious Williams Tre Herndon Gregory Junior Christian Braswell Montaric “Buster” Brown The battle for the final spots has been close, but Junior, Braswell, and Brown have stood out from the pack. Andre Cisco Rayshawn Jenkins Andrew Wingard Antonio Johnson Daniel Thomas Johnson is dealing with an ill-timed hamstring injury, but it’d be a huge surprise if the Jaguars were ready to move on from the fifth-round pick. Thomas may be on the bubble, but his special teams skills should save him. Brandon McManus (K) Logan Cooke (P) Ross Matiscik (LS) The severity of Matiscik’s injury is still unknown, but there’s simply no way the Jaguars will carry two long snappers into the regular season. Story originally appeared on Jaguars Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.