Arizona State’s 27-24 loss to Colorado at Mountain America Stadium on Saturday was an inferno that set the Sun Devils up for a journey through hell for the rest of the season. It’s looking like a one-win season is a real possibility. Arizona State (1-5, 0-3 Pac-12) has a brutal schedule ahead. Kenny Dillingham has to create gameplans to face four top-25 teams over the last six games, including two against top-10 foes. The Sun Devils play No. 7 Washington and No. 18 Utah on the road. And they’ve got No. 8 Oregon and No. 13 Washington State at Mountain America Stadium. The only two games left against unranked opponents are at UCLA and the Territorial Cup game vs. Arizona at home. And ASU is going to face top-tier quarterbacks for the rest of the season. Was it strategy or injury? Arizona State's Cameron Skattebo limited vs. Colorado Washington’s Michael Penix and Oregon’s Bo Nix are legitimate Heisman contenders, and Washington State’s Cam Ward can hang 400 yards on any team in the country. UCLA freshman Dante Moore has gotten better by the game in compiling a 4-1 record, and on Saturday he gave Washington State its first loss of the season. Call UA’s situation a reprieve if you want, but Jayden de Laura has proved himself as a capable starter, and if he’s hurt, there are fans in Tucson who can’t wait to see more of Noah Fifita after he put up three touchdowns against Washington in his first real opportunity. ASU, meanwhile, has real concerns at the most important position on the field. Jaden Rashada is likely to be out for the season. Drew Pyne is out for the foreseeable future. And Trenton Bourguet has gotten dinged up the last couple of weeks. The nicks and bruises have affected his mechanics, which have hurt his trademark accuracy. The Sun Devils are a play away from fourth-string Jacob Conover, and at this point, only his coaches know what to expect from him. Elsewhere, it’s getting close to the point that the ASU injury report has more players listed than the depth chart. To Dillingham’s credit, his guys are playing hard, but that hasn’t been enough to this point in the season, and it’s looking increasingly like it’s not going to be. All that said, anything can happen for a team that simply refuses to give up. One upset victory (Borguet is the last QB to beat Washington) and a rivalry win could define the season and help set the program’s culture going forward. Reach Moore at gmoore@azcentral.com or 602-444-2236. Follow him on X, formerly Twitter, @SayingMoore. Arizona State football injury tracker: Hits keep coming for undermanned Sun Devils This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: ASU couldn't beat Deion Sanders's Colorado. Can it find another win? Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Christian Polanco and David Gass chat the USMNT reportedly hiring Mauricio Pochettino. They also discuss major storylines head of Premier League season, discuss MLS transfer news, and recap Leagues Cup round of 16.