by Amber Gibson | Wed, 19 Jul 2023 at 10:31:30  
    | Tech 



 The Black Deer of Plenty in Honkai: Star Rail is the last boss in the 7 World Virtual Universe. During combat, the holistic projection of the ritual beast summons various branches of the Ambrosia Tree and increases its attack power infinitely for every buff gained. The instructor's most dangerous abilities will be explained in the guide, as well as examples of the best team: read on to discover how to kill the Black Deer of Plenty in HSR. In the Lofu Xianzhou Exploration mission "Branching Antlers and Tangled Roots", the Black Deer of Fertility is first encountered in HSR: The Ambrosia Tree's Beast has the following weaknesses and resistances: The battle with the Black Deer of Plenty is broken into three stages. In phase 1, the following abilities are dangerous: Pedicel: Ivy Charm – Summons two branches of the Ambrosia Tree's winter wind (vulnerabilities: ice, quantum, and imaginary damage). Pedicel: Willow branch – Summons two branches of the Ambrosia Tree's yellow leaves (vulnerabilities: fire and quantum damage). You should pay attention to the following abilities in the second stage: Immortal life – the boss instantly restores health and gains 1 level of Wood Transformation status (HP regeneration every turn). Ambrosia Tree luxuriant blossom – Summons 2 Branches of Yellow Leaves, 1 Branch of Winter Wind The danger in the third stage is: Pedicel: Intertwined vines – Summons 2 Bountiful Fruit Branches (vulnerabilities: Fire, Quantum, and Phantom Damage) 1 Yellow Leaves Branch, 1 Winter Wind Branch of the Ambrosia Tree Vegetation cover – Increases defense and reduces stamina depletion. deer pounce – Increases damage for each living Branch of the Ambrosia Tree when 2 Abundant Fruit destroys all Bount The Black Deer of Opulence has also been known to deal lightning damage to a single target as well as wind damage in an area. He can also boost his DPS for life after receiving the buff. After killing two random elite opponents, you will have to meet with the Black Deer of Plenty in the final zone of World 7. Next, let's examine how to overcome the ritual projection. The following are examples of units that can defeat the Black Deer of Plenty: In the 7th World of the Virtual Universe, the following recommendations will assist you defeat the Black Deer of Plenty. The boss constantly summons Ambrosia Tree Branches. Destroy the most dangerous branches first and not wait for the boss to deplete his stamina (watch the turn order to see whether you can finish the branch off with quick melee attacks or you have to focus the target). Upgrade the heroes' relics and light cones when necessary. The reward for the first defeat over the Black Deer of Plenty in the 7th World of the Virtual Universe is contingent on the difficulty chosen. In total, you can get: 



 23 Most Expensive Vodka Bottles To Drink With Your Friends 23 Amazing Tattoo Ideas That Will Make You Special And Unique 23 World's Most Expensive Headphones Each Audiophile Can't Miss 23 Best Anime Series Ever Made That Are Still Actual For Fans MSNBC Live Stream FOX News Live Stream The List of Four Simple Rules To Have A Flat Stomach Free Samples By Mail Copyright © 2024 list23.com [Breaking U.S. News & Latest World News] Media LLC |
  About |
  Contact |
  Privacy Policy
