Thomas Davidson-Hetherington had been having trouble with his friends after rumours were spread around his school The family of a Newcastle teenager who tragically took his own life are on a mission to raise awareness of the help available to young people struggling with their mental health. Thomas Davidson-Hetherington was just 15 when he died at his grandfather's farm in Cumbria in February 2022, LancsLive reports. The teenager had been there with his parents for Sunday lunch when left the house to go for a walk.  He was later reported missing but later found by his uncle after extensive searches and sadly pronounced dead at the farm.  READ MORE: Join ChronicleLive's Whatsapp community for breaking news and top stories Thomas had left a note for his family in which he told them he loved them and referred to problems he had been having with his friends. During an inquest into his death last year, mum Gillian Davidson told the court how her son was struggling with rumours being spread about him in the week leading to his death. Dad Richy Hetherington is now on a mission to raise more awareness of suicide and has teamed up with artists including Jeffrey Lewis, Dandelion Hands and Nev Clay, to release an album called 'Songs for T' with all funds going to charities, PAPYRUS and Kidscape. Richy said: “Supporting PAPYRUS is very important to me because although we knew Thomas was having some issues we never truly understood just how badly he was feeling. We need young people to be more aware of the help that is available and for conversations about self-harm and suicide to be more open with parents and carers.  "I really want to try to raise money, and to increase awareness of suicide prevention and helping to save young lives.” Richy wants to see suicide become a topic on the school curriculum and said there needs to be a more open discussion about it. "I really hope that the album will let young people know there is always someone who cares, there are people who will listen and whatever the problem there are solutions," he continued. "We also want young people to realise how much their words and actions can affect someone, the best way to be kind is by not being unkind.  "If the record can help support the charities conduct their really important work providing a helpline, and guidance and workshops, whilst also spreading important messages then Thomas’ legacy will not just be one of despair, they could be giving some sense of hope.” You can find out more about the album and pre-order a copy at for-thomas.com You don't have to suffer in silence if you're struggling with your mental health. Here are some groups you can contact: Samaritans: Phone 116 123, 24 hours a day, or email jo@samaritans.org, in confidence. Childline: Phone 0800 1111. Calls are free and won't show up on your bill. PAPYRUS: Suicide prevention charity offering professional help and support to children, young people and anyone concerned for someone struggling with life. Call HOPELINEUK on 0800 068 4141, text 07860 039 967 or email pat@papyrus-uk.org. Depression Alliance: A charity for people with depression. No helpline, but it offers useful resources and links to other information. Students Against Depression: A website for students who are depressed, have low mood, or are suicidal. Click here to visit. National Bullying helpline: A website for both children and adults affected by bullying.  Click here. Campaign Against Living Miserably (CALM): For young men who are feeling unhappy. There is a helpline: 0800 58 58 58 or visit the website. 