E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 The Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture has announced that the state recently preserved 2,044 acres on 29 farms in 15 counties, including Berks, protecting them from residential or commercial development.The investment of more than $10.2 million in state, county and local funds preserves prime farmland, helping farms continue feeding families and the economy, officials said in a release.“Prime soil and clean water are critical resources for feeding a growing population,” Agriculture Secretary Russell Redding said. “Families who preserve their farms forge a partnership with government, investing together in ensuring that future Pennsylvania families will have green spaces, and the resources to produce food, income and jobs. Connecting businesses and communities to resources they need to sustain our economy and feed our quality of life is a key goal of the Shapiro Administration.”The newly preserved farms are in Adams, Berks, Butler, Centre, Clinton, Cumberland, Lancaster, Lehigh, Mifflin, Monroe, Montgomery, Northampton, Northumberland, Union, and Wayne counties.The following are the Berks farms preserved:• The Nathaniel S. and Rebecca Weaver Burkholder Farm, Richmond Township, 77-acre crop and livestock farm.• The Charles M. III and Linda L. Evans Farm, Jefferson Township, 51-acre crop farm.• The Elizabeth Moore Farm, Tulpehoken Township, 120-acre dairy farm.

The total investment is  $703,376, with $604,966 from the state and $98,410 from the county.Officials said the state leads the nation in preserved farmland. They said since 1988 the state has protected 6,231 farms and 626,321 acres in 58 counties, investing more than $1.67 billion in state, county and local funds.Pennsylvania partners with county and sometimes local governments and nonprofits to buy rights. By selling their land’s development rights, farm owners ensure their farms will remain farms and never be sold to developers, officials said.To learn more about Pennsylvania’s Farmland Preservation Program go to agriculture.pa.gov. The investment of more than $10.2 million in state, county and local funds preserves prime farmland, helping farms continue feeding families and the economy, officials said in a release. “Prime soil and clean water are critical resources for feeding a growing population,” Agriculture Secretary Russell Redding said. “Families who preserve their farms forge a partnership with government, investing together in ensuring that future Pennsylvania families will have green spaces, and the resources to produce food, income and jobs. Connecting businesses and communities to resources they need to sustain our economy and feed our quality of life is a key goal of the Shapiro Administration.” The newly preserved farms are in Adams, Berks, Butler, Centre, Clinton, Cumberland, Lancaster, Lehigh, Mifflin, Monroe, Montgomery, Northampton, Northumberland, Union, and Wayne counties. The following are the Berks farms preserved: • The Nathaniel S. and Rebecca Weaver Burkholder Farm, Richmond Township, 77-acre crop and livestock farm. • The Charles M. III and Linda L. Evans Farm, Jefferson Township, 51-acre crop farm. • The Elizabeth Moore Farm, Tulpehoken Township, 120-acre dairy farm. The total investment is  $703,376, with $604,966 from the state and $98,410 from the county. Officials said the state leads the nation in preserved farmland. They said since 1988 the state has protected 6,231 farms and 626,321 acres in 58 counties, investing more than $1.67 billion in state, county and local funds. Pennsylvania partners with county and sometimes local governments and nonprofits to buy rights. By selling their land’s development rights, farm owners ensure their farms will remain farms and never be sold to developers, officials said. To learn more about Pennsylvania’s Farmland Preservation Program go to agriculture.pa.gov. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group