A laid-back, riverside campsite on Exmoor, surrounded by walks in the Lorna Doone Valley. © National Trust / Paul Harris A laid-back, riverside campsite on Exmoor, surrounded by walks in the Lorna Doone Valley. Cloud Farm Campsite is on the banks of Badgworthy Water, a gently flowing river on the border of Devon and Somerset in Exmoor's Lorna Doone Valley. There are walks of every kind here, from an easy stroll to Oare Church to a long hike to Dunkery Beacon for views across the Bristol Channel. Trails lead along the river to nearby pools and then on to the coast, or head off into heather-covered valleys, moorland and ancient woodland. The site is well placed for the Colerdige Way, and you can join the South West Coast Path from the moor. It's a peaceful place to spend a nature-filled holiday, splashing in the water, exploring the valley to spot wildlife, and relaxing by a campfire on your camping pitch. The hamlet of Malmsmead is less than a mile’s walk away, where you’ll find the Buttery Tea-room which is open into the evening.  Check-in is from 1.30pm, with departures by 11am. For group bookings, directions, late arrivals, facility information, electric vehicle charging, local area guides and more, please check the Cloud Farm Campsite Guide. Cloud Farm Campsite Map (0.19 MB)   Campervans and motorhomes (under 6m long) can choose from hardstanding pitches with electric hook-up or a riverside, grass pitch without electricity. Sorry but the site isn't suitable for caravans due to access restrictions.  Choose your pitch type and size in the booking system, and we'll help you find the best available spot when you arrive. You'll be able to choose from available pitches near the water or at the foot of the valley sides.  The row of pods at Cloud Farm are in an elevated position looking across the campsite to catch the last of the evening sun. Think of a pod as a replacement for your tent... A pod offers a few simple comforts - like heat, light and sleeping platforms. You'll need to bring all your other camping gear, like sleeping bags, a sleeping mat if you'd like to place it on top of the mattresses provided, pots and pans, a stove and camping chairs. The pods at Cloud Farm are Plus Pods, so they're a bit larger than regular pods and have some extra comforts. The front section has two benches with mattresses, which can be used as seating in the day and single beds at night. There is storage space under the benches and hooks to hang equipment. The back section also has floor mattresses, which can be folded up for extra seating. The pods at Cloud Farm can sleep two adults and two children, or three adults. Two are dog friendly. Find all you need to know about a holiday at Cloud Farm Campsite, including directions, how to check in, types of pitches, pods, dogs, campfires and more... While you’re off discovering the area, you might spot buzzards, red deer or the semi-wild Exmoor ponies who roam freely, maintaining the landscape by eating gorse and paving out walkways through the bracken. By the water, see if you can see an otter, or the blue flash of a kingfisher. There's a patchwork of history and archeology, with prehistoric standing stones along the river, an abandoned medieval village nearby and the 17th-century packhorse bridge over the river at Malmsmead village. With both Devon and Somerset on the doorstep and the coast within reach, there's a lot to see and do. You have free entry at National Trust places during your stay, including the ancient Dunster Castle and its subtropical gardens. Explore Watersmeet with its National Trust tea-garden, walk the 10-mile trail to the cliffs of Foreland Point, or head to the coast at Lynton or Lynmouth to hop on the funicular Cliff Railway. The family-friendly beaches of Croyde, Woolacombe and Saunton Sands are about an hour away. For friends and family who would like to join your holiday without camping, there are two National Trust cottages at Cloud Farm Campsite - Carver Cottage (sleeps six) and Cloud Farmhouse (sleeps six). Heron View (sleeps four), Kingfisher View (sleeps six) and Riverside Cottage (sleeps six) are in Malmsmead, a short walk away. Mystical valley and peaceful walks in countryside made famous by RD Blackmore Lynton, Devon Dramatic river gorge and ancient woodland in stunning surroundings Lynmouth, Devon A tranquil stroll along Badgworthy Water through the picturesque Lorna Doone Valley to the memorial to the author of Lorna Doone R.D.Blackmore.