Reported By:  Namit Singh Sengar News18.com Last Updated: September 04, 2023, 13:32 IST New Delhi, India 26.4% gig delivery workers attribute road closure due to constructions as the reason for slow deliveries. (Representative image) Borzo (erstwhile WeFast), a global intra-city delivery service, recently conducted a survey to gather insights on the increasing traffic congestion and its impact on the delivery experience for gig delivery riders. 86.8% of gig delivery riders surveyed said that the traffic congestion in their delivery area is high, while 13.2% delivery partners do not suffer from traffic congestion. The survey findings aim to provide valuable insights into the challenges such as traffic and road conditions, incidents, delivery pressures, parking availability, and signal duration from the perspective of gig delivery riders. The sample size of the Borzo survey was 5310 gig delivery partners. Gig workers Gig workers are independent contractors who work temporary or short-term jobs, typically in the service sector. They are not employees of the companies they work for, and they usually do not receive regular employee benefits. Example; Food delivery riders use platforms like Swiggy, Zomato, and Dunzo to deliver food to customers. They typically use their own vehicles and are paid per delivery. Key insights from the Borzo survey include;   “The findings from this survey have given a fresh perspective of last-mile challenges faced by various delivery riders operating fleets for various players. Since the delivery radius and route of riders is similar during daily operations, there’s a need to relook at the challenges such as traffic congestion and management, signal duration, parking infrastructure, road conditions to greatly improve the efficiency of the last-mile logistics sector,” said Eugene Panfilov, GM, Borzo India. “The challenges faced by delivery riders in meeting tight delivery timelines and the potential risks associated with time constraints, needs thorough consideration by the industry. By working towards some of these challenges, Borzo aims to ensure safety and efficiency of its delivery riders,” added Panfilov. In India, Borzo has a fleet of over 80,000 delivery partners who serve the enterprise hyperlocal and SME segment.