We were first introduced to Kevin McGarry as Mitch Cutty in the Canadian hit series, Heartland and Dr. Timothy Hudson in 2015’s Open Heart. But over the years — and to our delight — McGarry has become one of Hallmark’s most popular hunks, gaining fame as mountie Nathan Grant on the network drama When Calls The Heart and in made-for-TV films such as The Wedding Veil and Winter Love Story. Here, we get to know Kevin McGarry a little better and find out more about how he got his start, some surprising side jobs he's had, our favorite films and what he's doing next! Hallmark's Kevin McGarry, quite literally, stumbled into acting. That's right — the Ontario, Canada native was a freshman in high school, busy looking at his new surroundings, and mistakenly entered the wrong room for his assigned class. Instead, the 12th grade theatre class he found himself in lit a fire in him — and today, we're grateful for his little mistake all those years ago! McGarry continued learning the ins and outs of acting after that fateful day, graduating from George Brown College with a degree in Creative Writing. Following graduation, he enrolled in Fanshawe College in London, Ontario where he took theater arts. He continued his thespian education studying at the Pro Actors Lab. Eventually, McGarry got sick of the studying and wanted to put it into practice, itching to venture out into the real world of scripts, auditions and bright lights. But before he achieved fame in motion pictures, McGarry was involved in another venture. Kevin McGarry also tried his hand at modeling in the early days of his career — but it was more than just catwalks and catalogs. He was on the cover on three Harlequin books – you know, the ones women read in the comfy confines of their bedroom, chock full of steamy plot lines? Some of his covers included Her Sexiest Surprise by Dawn Atkins and Mission: Christmas by Lindsay McKenna and Susan Grant. “I did model when I first came to Toronto. I was not good at it," McGarry said on the Grass is Greener podcast. “But the only thing I really got down was on the catwalk walk or the runway walk…putting your shoulders back to slide off the jacket and then doing the over-the-shoulder motion in one move," he joked, while also recalling a gig he had in a Sears catalog. “I’m from a small town, and back then we had the Sears Wishbook.  And they were like, 'McGarry’s in the Wishbook, page 170,’ or whatever it was.” (Click through to see him in thi list of Hallmark hunks!) While Kevin McGarry tends to keep his private life private, the When Calls the Heart star has found his forever love with fellow Heartie castmate Kayla Wallace. They met on set in 2019 and started dating soon after. In December 2022, Wallace took to Instagram to announce their engagement with a sweet video. To us, Kevin McGarry is the ultimate Hallmark hunk. The charming 38-year-old actor kids that while he’s never borrowed Hallmark storylines and incorporated them into his real life, they’ve borrowed from him. “I feel like Hallmark steals storylines from my real life and uses it on-camera," he joked with Entertainment Tonight. Here, take a look at some of our favorite Kevin McGarry Hallmark movies and TV shows over the course of his career! An interior designer (Jana Kramer) seeks the help of handsome dog trainer Owen (played by McGarry) when she adopts a dog of her own. While juggling the various tasks her job throws at her, she leans on Owen for support and begins to fall for him. Becca Tobin stars as a country pop-star who is struggling with the image she's forced to present to the public. When her bus breaks down in Pennsylvania and accidentally leaves her behind, she's taken in by a local family thanks to the teenage girl who comes to her rescue — and begins falling for her musician older brother. Jenny (Emilie Ullerup) is ecstatic over her sister's destination wedding at an ice hotel, and finds herself falling for the best man, Craig, in this ice-cold setting. Cassie (Jen Lilley) is an author whose book is struggling to sell. In an effort to boost her sales, she's paired with best-selling author Elliot on a book tour — and sparks start to fly. Kevin McGarry joined season 6 of this popular Hallmark period drama as Nathan Grant, one of Elizabeth's (Erin Krakow) suitors. Belinda (Kim Shaw) must team up with her ex, Dustin, in her town's annual Christmas scavenger hunt. Lacey Chabert plays a museum curator who discovers a long lost antique veil. She and Peter, a new board member, work together to discover its origins and plan a gala for the unveiling. Taylor (Kayla Wallace) is a journalist and Luke is in the military. After a chance encounter one Christmas Eve, the two remain bonded over the next few Christmases, whether their paths cross or they remain apart, and over time, they begin to fall for one another. Emily (Kayla Wallace) runs a booming butterfly business, and when she goes to deliver monarchs to a birthday party, she meets single dad, Garrett. A part of Hallmark's Countdown to Christmas 2023, Kevin McGarry stars as a hockey player traded to Ashley's (Kim Matula) hometown team — who just so happens to take up residence in her family's backyard cottage. Airing October 20, 8/7c on Hallmark! For more Hallmark stars:  Bethany Joy Lenz Movies and TV Shows + Her Best Hallmark Romances, Ranked Hallmark Countdown to Christmas 2023: The Full Lineup, Who’s Starring & When to Watch Peter Mooney: The Handsome New Hallmark Star You Don’t Want to Miss! Swoon Alert! The Top 14 Ryan Paevey Hallmark Movies You *Must* See From Hallmark Sweetheart to Special Ops — Get To Know Jill Wagner Pascale Hutton: Get To Know the Hallmark Sweetheart Lighting Up Our Screens New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.