This year's Banned Books Week (Oct. 1-7) had an uphill climb in Florida. Book bans have been surging the past couple of years, and according to nonprofit organization PEN America's latest report, "Banned in the USA: The Mounting Pressure to Censor," there are more book bans here than in any other state, by a wide margin. Over 40% of all public school book bans in the 2022-2023 school year happened in Florida, with little sign they're slowing down. Proponents say the restrictions are meant to protect children from sexually graphic and explicit stories and provide parents with control over what their children see. PEN America and other advocates claim that the growing book-banning movement is meant to erase narratives that might make white children uncomfortable while whitewashing American history. According to the American Library Association (ALA), most of the books challenged last year were by or about LGBTQ+ persons and people who are Black, Indigenous, or people of color. “If you’re a white kid who only sees and reads about white kids, you can get an inflated sense of how important whiteness is,” Maryland school librarian Melissa McDonald told the National Education Association. "When we ban books, we're closing off readers to people, places, and perspectives," the ALA said in a release announcing Banned Books Week. "But when we stand up for stories, we unleash the power that lies inside every book. We liberate the array of voices that need to be heard and the scenes that need to be seen." And a recent study by the nonprofit organization First Book found that students spent more time reading after teachers added more diverse books to their classroom libraries and reading scores improved. As a parent, it's natural to want to make sure that the books your child is reading are suitable for their age and development level. Still, there are several ways to track and guide your children's education without pulling books off the shelves so that no other child can see them either, even if they might benefit from them. Regularly talk to your child about what they're reading and what they think about it. If you don't agree with parts of the book, use that as a chance to talk about why. Your child's teacher can provide the year's curriculum and reading list, and you can raise any objections with them about what your child will be assigned. The teacher will be able to tell you why these books were chosen and what value and perspective they bring to your kid's education. No one knows more about books than librarians, and they can be an invaluable resource. Librarians can recommend age-appropriate books and help you find lists and reading programs tailored to your child's age group or make suggestions if your child is reading above their age. Florida book bans:These 5 books banned from Florida school shelves might surprise you The best way to judge whether a book is suitable for your child is to read it. Each child's development and maturity level is different and your child may be more sensitive than most, or more open to deeper themes. Banned books:Why you should read these 51 banned books now If you don't have time to read yourself, websites such as Common Sense Media and Goodreads provide reviews and recommendations for books suitable for various age groups and maturity levels. Common Sense Media doesn't shy away from telling you what potentially sensitive or even objectionable material may be in the book and you can search for suggestions using customizable content limits. Unlike sites favored by people banning books that focus on single objectionable passages to eliminate entire books, Common Sense Media also looks at positive messages, positive role models, how characters are represented, and the educational and literary value of the entire work. Check with friends and neighbors, or other parents you know. You also can join online parenting forums or Facebook groups where parents discuss age-appropriate books for valuable insights and recommendations. There are multiple honors awarded for excellence in children's literature, and they can make a good start for a parent looking for age-appropriate books. Here are a few: By staying aware and investigating the books your child is reading or is expected to read, you can actively engage with your child's reading choices and help them discover books that are both enjoyable and suitable for their age and maturity level.