This Mother’s Day – my fifth as a mother – will be spent with my curious and joyful daughter. When she’s not busy asking me questions about everything she sees in the world, she’s making up songs about her life or planning her next playdate with friends. While she is aware that we needed medical assistance to have her, she is blissfully unaware of the heartache we experienced before she entered our lives due to our experience with infertility. We are fortunate we had access to the care we needed to treat this medical condition and had the funds to pay for the care. And we are so blessed that, after two egg retrievals and two embryo transfers, she is here with us today. But this Mother's Day, too many South Carolinians who deeply want to be mothers are afraid their dreams will become collateral damage of proposed legislation to ban abortion. Following last year’s Dobbs v. Jackson Supreme Court decision, lawmakers across the country have proposed reproductive restrictions in the name of preserving life – restrictions that may lead to bans on IVF. South Carolina lawmakers were no different; as part of their efforts to restrict reproductive rights, they introduced bills that could severely restrict access to this important family-building procedure. It is incredibly concerning that bills like H3549 and H3552 – both of which would pose a grave risk to both IVF patients and the doctors who care for them – were introduced by legislators in the first place. If South Carolina lawmakers are truly in favor of helping their constituents build families, we need them to declare that they are unwavering in their commitment to protect access to IVF and the full range of reproductive care that accompanies this life-giving procedure. Families like mine only exist because of IVF, and bills like H3549 and H3552 deeply affect people like me. Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? Download it for free from your app store. Everyone’s journey to parenthood is different. When I talk about the road that led to our daughter, I shorten it and say we did three rounds of IVF: one that worked, one that didn’t and one that ended in miscarriage when we tried to give our daughter a sibling. That story is a highlight reel – one that omits the waiting, the tears, the money, the stress, the loneliness, the picking ourselves up after each disappointment, the hormones, the weight gain, the taking two steps backward for every one step forward and the deep pain of it all. There were so many Mother’s Days that left me feeling sad, angry and depleted. One year, I went to church and the pastor asked all the mothers to stand up – while I  sat there and held back tears. But it wasn’t just on Mother’s Day I felt the acute pain of infertility. I planned two of my younger sisters’ baby showers while I was taking IVF injections to try to get pregnant. At weddings, I was asked how many kids I had. As a thirty-something married woman, this made me feel deeply out of place and left behind – all while I was calculating every decision based on whether it would get me one step closer to becoming a mom. Not just abortion: Overturning Roe v. Wade puts your right to conceive babies at risk, too Lost in the GOP's abortion war: Mifepristone actually improves fertility for women like me In this moment, I can’t imagine balancing these painful experiences, navigating everyday life, and being concerned that IVF wasn’t available to me because lawmakers in my state took it away. These are the feelings I channel when I am advocating for others to build their families. I want every would-be parent in South Carolina and across the nation who wants to grow their family to be able to try. I’m a transgender man: Overturning Roe v. Wade puts us all at risk. As a fertility patient, advocate and volunteer for RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association, I want legislators to understand that restricting the full range of reproductive health care will prevent people like me from having a chance to become a parent via medical intervention. It is hard to fathom that the lawmakers we elect to office would deny the people of this state this life-changing opportunity of becoming a parent through IVF. Without being able to create embryos through the IVF process, this Mother’s Day would likely look vastly different for me and my husband. This holiday, I urge lawmakers to recommit to helping people build their families and vow to protect IVF and reproductive healthcare for all. Kristin Dillensnyder is a former IVF patient who now advocates for IVF access and reproductive rights, and has her own infertility support business. She lives with her husband, stepson and daughter in Blythewood, South Carolina. You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page, on Twitter @usatodayopinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter. To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: I celebrate Mother's Day thanks to IVF. Abortion bills could change that New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.