By Trevin Lund For Dailymail.Com   Published:  21:48 EDT, 25 May 2023   |  Updated:  17:00 EDT, 26 May 2023      31 View  comments  Wiz Khalifa and Amber Rose made a rare appearance together as they celebrated their 10-year-old son Sebastian completing the fourth grade while showing off their co-parenting skills on Thursday. Wiz wore a white hoody over his signature twisted braids as he posed behind his son, Sebastian, who looked handsome in a grey suit with the same black and white Air Jordans as his father. The 10-time Grammy nominee wrapped his arm around his girlfriend, Aimee Aguilar's shoulder. Aimee, 28, wore her hair up in a bun with a glamorous makeup palette and silver hoop earrings. Blended family: Wiz Khalifa and Amber Rose made a rare appearance together as they celebrated their 10-year-old son Sebastian completing the fourth grade while showing off their co-parenting skills on Thursday Joining his dad on stage: Wiz showed he is every bit the doting-dad in 2021 when he invited his son Sebastian to join him on stage in Colorado. Amber shared pictures of their son's excitement on Instagram She wore a $4500 Chanel Tibet Fur bag over a black long-sleeve top paired with black workout pants and sneakers. Wiz's ex-wife, Amber, carried a $4200 Saint Laurent Sac De Jour tote bag and wore a long sleeve black and white turtleneck dress.  The buzzcut biracial blonde donned silver earrings and black-rimmed glasses and opted for light makeup with a nude matte lip.  Amber's mother, Dorothy Rose, is of Cape Verdean African and Scottish descent, while her father, Michael Levonchuck, is of Irish and Italian descent.  The amicable exes were married for 14 months, from July 2013 until September 2014, and share 50/50 joint custody of their 10-year-old son Sebastian 'Bash' Taylor Thomaz. After their split, Amber dated music executive Alexander 'A.E' Edwards from 2018 to 2021. The couple share a two-and-a-half-year-old son Slash. Edwards, 35, recently ended his romance with Cher, 76. In the family photo, Slash wore a black long-sleeve top over a red shirt with red shorts and black and red Nike Jordans.  As a tribute to their blended family and their sons' names, Rose and her baby daddy got matching 'Bash Slash' tattoos on their foreheads in 2019. Father and son: Both father and son sang along to the track, as Wiz motioned for Sebastian to join him at the front of the stage Give it up: 'Give it up for my son,' Wiz said as the crowd cheered loudly for a smiling Sebastian, who waved to the crowd Excited: 'Are you excited?' Rose asked her son, as he looked at the camera and said, 'Why wouldn't I?' as he could hardly contain his joy The 35-year-old rapper captioned his Twitter post, 'On our way to 5th grade.'  Sebastian takes after his father and is very into music. In September 2021, Sebastian was seen joining his father on stage at the Red Rocks Amphitheater in Morrison, Colorado.  Both father and son sang along to the track as Wiz motioned for Sebastian to join him at the front of the stage.  Amber shared a video of them on Instagram and panned to show the packed crowd at Red Rocks before the song came to an end. 'Give it up for my son,' Wiz said as the crowd cheered loudly for a smiling Sebastian, who waved to the crowd. Wiz knelt down and gave his son a hug and a kiss on the forehead before they both walked backstage to a cheering Amber as the video came to a close.  These days, the buzzcut blonde is content with 'being by myself' and 'very happy to not be in my bed with anyone.'  Fans can catch Rose's upcoming catfight with Love & Hip Hop: Atlanta alum Joseline Hernandez in the Alabama-set second season of College Hill: Celebrity Edition, which airs Thursdays on BET+. Earlier this week: Wiz Khalifa brought out his son Sebastian and girlfriend Aimee Aguilar to the Los Angeles Lakers game on Monday Exes: After their split, Amber dated music executive Alexander 'A.E' Edwards from 2018 to 2021. The couple share a two-and-a-half-year-old son Slash. Edwards, 35, recently ended his romance with Cher, 76 Split: A source told DailyMail.com on Saturday: 'Cher is mercurial. And she changes her mind every minute. She actually really cares about A.E., and now that she's closer to her kids, she wants more stability in her life. Although it's off for now, no one in her close circle would be surprised to see them back together'  'Amber definitely won': Fans can catch Amber's upcoming catfight with Love & Hip Hop: Atlanta alum Joseline Hernandez (L) in the Alabama-set second season of College Hill: Celebrity Edition, which airs Thursdays on BET+ Rose tussled with the 36-year-old 'Puerto Rican Princess' (L) after she told her: 'Your problem is that you really don't want to be black' Despite the catfight, the Intervention guest star - who boasts 27.3M Instagram/Twitter followers - still wrote on April 26 that it was 'one of the best experiences of my life' The Intervention guest star tussled with the 36-year-old 'Puerto Rican Princess' after she told her: 'Your problem is that you really don't want to be black.' Earlier this week, Wiz was spotted in downtown Los Angeles taking his son Sebastian and girlfriend Aimee Aguilar to the Los Angeles Lakers game against the Denver Nuggets on Monday night.  Meanwhile, Wiz has a new studio album, summer tour, and new movie in the can. He appears to have been enjoying a bit of downtime while regularly posting videos and pictures online, exercising, and partaking in a few of his favorite past times. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group