Slimes have been one of the most versatile mobs for a long time, and the Minecraft 1.19 update has only added to their glory. Now, they are a worthy enemy, a major part of Redstone mechanics, and even a great source of food for frogs. But all of these uses are only discoverable if you know how and where to find slimes. Moreover, if you know how to make a slime farm, then you can have a constant supply of food for frogs. As you will see below, the former isn’t as hard as finding mobs like axolotls. But making a slime farm can be slightly challenging. So, let’s not waste time and learn the easiest methods to find slimes and make a slime farm in Minecraft.  What are slimes in Minecraft? Slimes are unique hostile mobs in Minecraft that are cube-shaped and bouncy. They spawn in underground areas of specific chunks or a couple of chosen biomes. You can find slimes in 3 different sizes – big, medium, and small. When a large slime dies, it breaks into medium slimes, which upon killing breaks into small slimes. The last and smallest type of slime drops slimeballs upon dying. You can use these slimeballs as a crafting ingredient for various types of recipes.  Above the ground, slimes spawn in the swamp and mangrove swamp Minecraft biomes but only during the nighttime. Their spawn rate is affected by the following conditions: Slimes also spawn in slime chunks. A chunk in Minecraft is a 16 x 16 area of blocks on the horizontal axis. The whole world of Minecraft is divided into thousands of chunks. Slime chunks are specific chunks of a Minecraft world, where slimes can spawn underground. These chunks are rare and consist of only 10% of all in-game chunks. We cover the best ways to find these chunks and slimes in this guide. But finding the slime chunk isn’t enough. For a slime to spawn underground, the following conditions must also be met: The easiest way to find slimes is by visiting the swamp biomes at night and waiting for the slimes to spawn under the moonlight. But unfortunately, following this advice will only get you the slimes temporarily. If you want to make a slime farm, you must use underground slimes, which have a more reliable spawn rate. And as you might expect, you must first find a slime chunk in your world for this to work. There are two methods to locate slime chunks in Minecraft – Exploration and Seed Analysis. Let’s go over each of them individually to find the best method for you. The simplest way to identify if a chunk can spawn slimes is by looking for slimes. Just dig down till you reach below Y=40 world height and keep exploring until you come across a naturally spawning slime. Once that happens, you have to wait around until you are sure that the area where the slimes are spawning is actually a slime chunk. You can later use that specific chunk to create a slime farm. Moreover, as a little tip, you can use the “F3 + G” shortcut to make chunk borders visible in the Java edition. Unfortunately, there is no such feature on the Bedrock edition. You will have to wait around for slimes to spawn before selecting the area for the farm. As you might expect, manual exploration is time-consuming and not the most efficient way to find slime chunks. Instead, you should spend some time analyzing your world’s seed and find out the slime chunks to reach them directly. Follow these steps below to analyze your world seed and find slime chunks: Once you locate a slime chunk, you need the following items to make a slime farm: Almost everything you need for a slime farm is easy to obtain. However, you will need to spend some time exploring villages in your world to collect them in no time. With everything at your disposal, it’s time to start building an efficient slime farm. Make sure to follow the guide step-by-step in-game right now or bookmark it to avoid confusion. Let’s get started: To begin, you first need to dig out the entire slime chunk as deep as you can. We suggest you at least dig from Y=40 to Y=10 world height. If you go any lower, there’s a high chance that you might stumble upon the Warden, which isn’t a worthy risk. You can use TNT or pickaxes to get the job done. Just make sure to close any cave openings you might discover to keep other hostile mobs away from your farm. For our slime farm to work, we first need to spawn slimes. For that, make two floating platforms with building blocks. The surface area of these platforms should be 14 x 14 blocks, and they should have a vertical gap of at least five blocks between them. To keep it simple, you can make one at Y=30 and the next at Y=25.  Moreover, there should be a gap of 3 blocks on all sides of the platforms. Doing so will allow the slime to slowly but surely jump into your farm’s fit and to its death. Moreover, replace some blocks of the platforms’ floor with froglight or similar light blocks. This will stop other hostile mobs from spawning on the platforms. The spawn rate of underground slimes isn’t affected by light level. Next, place magma blocks at the bottom of the slime chunk and cover the whole area to create a lava-like floor. The damage from magma blocks will kill the slimes and eventually make them drop slimeballs. Then, add a layer of water on top of these magma blocks as it will come in handy later in our slime farm’s collection system. Once everything else is ready, follow these steps to spawn slimes and get an Allay to collect slimeballs: If using Allay seems a bit complex, you can also use the following methods to collect slimeballs in your slime farm: All of these methods yield similar results. You have to choose the one based on your resources and requirements. Now that the structure is ready, it’s time to see your slime farm in action. Here’s how the slime farm will work: Whatever your plans might be, now that you know how to make a slime farm in Minecraft, you will never run out of slimeballs to feed your frogs in Minecraft. But it is only one of the many survival farms you can make in the game. Check out our guide on the best Minecraft farms and choose what you’re going to build next. With that said, what do you plan to do with so many slimeballs? Let us know in the comments below! Unfortunately, there is no way to breed slimes in Minecraft. You have to make them spawn naturally for your farm to work. The only way around this mechanic is using a custom mob spawner, but you can’t do that without using cheats or being in creative mode. With inputs from @radatravar  Add new comment Name  Email ID   

  Δ  



Trending Stories in#Minecraft




01


All Wolf (Dog) Variants in Minecraft and Where to Find Them




 Radojka Travar

 




02


25 Best Minecraft 1.21 Seeds You Should Try




 Radojka Travar

 




03


15 Best Minecraft Village Seeds You Should Try (2024)




 Beebom Staff

 




04


All Minecraft Armor Trim Locations: Where to Find Them?




 Radojka Travar

 




05


Is Minecraft 1.21 Optifine Available to Download?




 Radojka Travar

 





 01 02 03 04 05