Watching The Holiday around the holidays has become an annual tradition for us. What can we say? It’s truly a classic, feel-good movie that’s ideal to watch around Christmas time. So, when rumors of a sequel started swirling around the internet, we need to know *all* the details. Earlier this week, actress Kate Winslet attended the premiere of Avatar: The Way of Water in the United Kingdom. While speaking with Entertainment Tonight, she addressed rumors of a sequel...andddd shared that it’s a no-go (womp, womp). “As far as I know, it’s not true,” she said. She later revealed that “no one’s ever consulted” her about a sequel. She continued, “I know—sadly it’s not true. It would be so fun to see Miles and Iris get back together. I kind of imagine, like, how cute would their children be? Tiny Jack Blacks running around everywhere.” Winslet went on to say that she finds it “so thrilling” that fans continue to love the movie after all these years. But in the end, she believes that The Holiday doesn’t need a sequel. “Sometimes you just have to kind of quit while you're ahead, walk away, let it have its place in the sun,” the actress said. The Holiday follows a Daily Telegraph columnist named Iris (Winslet) and a movie trailer producer named Amanda (Cameron Diaz). With freshly broken hearts, both women decided to swap houses for the holidays. Soon enough, they both meet unexpected love interests. The movie also stars Jack Black (Miles) and Jude Law (Graham). Welp, there goes our hope… Want all the latest entertainment news sent right to your inbox? Click here. 25 Best Christmas Movies Ranked But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. King Charles's cancer diagnosis was announced six months ago, but the type of cancer he is fighting has never been disclosed for a very specific reason, it has been claimed Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend