Wow, okay, Pete!!!! We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we love. Promise. Hi, so ICYMI, Pete Davidson has had a *VERY* busy past couple of years—and, no, we're not just talking about him gettin' busy with Kim Kardashian (RIP to one of my fav random relationships). He may have left Saturday Night Live last year after an eight-season run, but the celeb has still got his comedy specials, stand-up tours, his super-successful foray into film, and his many endorsement deals. And as a result, Pete Davidson's net worth has legit quadrupled between 2018 and 2022. As in: Since last year, he's worth four times what he was worth four years ago. Okay!!! So...what's next for Pete after SNL? Currently, you can see his Netflix special Pete Davidson Presents: The Best Friends on the streamer, his rom-com Meet Cute alongside Kaley Cuoco, and his new Peacock show Bupkis. But wait! There's more...he'll also be in the forthcoming horror flick The Home and the buddy stoner comedy Wizards! And ya, you can also expect that his bank account will continue to explode, even without those SNL checks. Since we know you wanna know, we did a formal investigation* into Pete's earnings. Let's get into it, shall we?   *Informal and vaguely unhinged deep dive. Before his season 47 exit (womp, womp), Pete was considered one of Saturday Night Live's most A-list cast members, and consequently, he got paid tons of $$$ for being cute/funny/charming. He first joined the cast back in 2014, and according to Celebrity Net Worth, he probs made $7K per episode. Each season of SNL runs for 21 episodes, so [*busts out elementary school multiplication skills*] that means Pete earned approximately $147,000 during his first season. However! The outlet also reports that SNL cast members get a MAJOR salary bump after five seasons, with their per-episode salary shooting up to $15K (which ends up being $315,000 for a 21-episode season). Oh, and apparently, SNL's highest-paid cast members make more like $25K per episode (or $500,000 a year), and considering Pete is household-name levels of famous now, it seems likely he was earning that half-a-mil paycheck by the end of his run. Emphasis on "likely" because this hasn't been confirmed.  Before he became a bonafide movie star, Pete had bit parts in Trainwreck, What Men Want, and Set It Up—but let's assume he didn't make tooooo much from those gigs. Oh! And he was also the voice of Duck in a Prime original movie with the incredible name of Click, Clack Moo: Christmas at the Farm. If he didn't earn a cool mil for that role, we will be OUTRAGED. But over the past couple of years, Pete has had much bigger roles in movies like Big Time Adolescence, The Dirt, The Suicide Squad, King of Staten Island, and Bodies Bodies Bodies, among others. And like we said, he has a BUNCH of big projects coming up that are super lucrative, which brings us to.... Pete's new show called Bupkis recently debuted on Peacock, and Variety reports he's getting $500k per episode for it. And at a total of the eight episodes in season 1, we're looking at a cool $4 million. So 😭 happy 😭 for 😭 him 😭. Pete once again bid adieu to social media after reappearing for approximately one week, but not being on the interwebs doesn't stop him from getting ye olde celeb endorsements—he just gets 'em the old-fashioned way: commercials. Like his Moose Knuckles Fall/Winter 2021 campaign alongside Emily Ratajkowski and Adwoa Aboah: And ofc, this one (via Insta Live) that he did for Calvin Klein with his BFF Machine Gun Kelly: Again, earned income on these ads is rudely kept private, but considering Pete's total net worth (coming up in a sec), we're comfortable guessing that he got big time coin for these endorsements.   Pete does a bunch of stand-up, and he's even released two stand-up comedy specials: one for Comedy Central called Pete Davidson: SMD and another for Netflix called Pete Davidson: Alive From New York.  Again, it's unclear how much he's earned from his stand-up bookings and specials, but hey, maybe relatively small comedy tours are huge cash cows? Also, speaking of cows, have you watched Click, Clack Moo yet?   Pete isn't out here flipping houses like some celebs do, but he did have two (2) homes in the glorious pastoral oasis known as Staten Island. Back in 2016, Pete reportedly bought his mom a $1.3 million house in his home borough, and in December 2020, he bought himself a $1.2 million condo a few blocks from his mom's place—though apparently, he's since moved on up to Brooklyn and now lives in a $30K a month pad. Cool-cool-cool. Oh, and let's not forget about the decommissioned Staten Island ferry he casually bought with Colin Jost for a reported $280K. The plan is to turn the boat into a floating comedy club, but tbd whether that will actually happen.  Celebrity Net Worth reports Pete Davidson's net worth in 2022 as $8 million. And let us just pause right there to inform you that his net worth in 2018 was "just" $2 million. Meaning he's managed to quadruple his earnings in just four years. Between 2022 and 2023, it has remained the same, but something tells us he's probs not complaining. At this rate, though, he could be worth $32 million by the time 2026 rolls around ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.  Travis Kelce's Net Worth Is Way High, Everyone Glen Powell's Net Worth Will Blow You Away Blake Lively Made So Much $$$ From ‘Gossip Girl’ Simone Biles’s Net Worth Is Truly Astonishing Time to Go Inside Channing Tatum's $$$$$ Ryan Reynolds's Net Worth Has Us Screaming So, What TF Is the Duchy of Cornwall? Prince William Is Rich and He Just Got Richer Inside Ryan Serhant's Massive Net Worth You’re Not Prepared to Handle Naomi Osaka’s Income Kelly Clarkson’s $$$ Sitch Just Blew My Mind Jennifer Lopez Is Filthy Stinkin’ Rich, Y’all A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.