There are few pests as worrisome as ticks. These tiny terrors can latch on and spread serious diseases between hosts, endangering the health of your family and pets. Ridding your yard of them is essential. Much like getting rid of fleas, when you suspect or spot ticks in your yard, immediate panic can set in. Luckily, however, they are relatively simple to kill and keep at bay. Here, pest control experts have shared their tips for the best way to kill ticks in your yard to free your outdoor space of pests and your mind from stress. There is a range of chemical and natural ways you can kill ticks in your yard but, while they all work, some are quicker than others. Here are your options for killing ticks:  In the first instance, it can be a good idea to use some tick repellent to either prevent ticks in your yard or move a few along if you suspect or are worried about ticks but cannot see them. For this, a 20% to 30% DEET or 20% Picaridin works well, suggests Bob Gilbert, certified entomologist and pest control expert at Blue Sky Pest Control. ‘For those preferring a more natural repellant, many essential oils repel ticks. These natural choices include cedar, lemongrass, peppermint, lemon eucalyptus, and others,’ he adds. ‘However, although they do work, they do not last as long as DEET or Picaridin and need to be applied more frequently according to the manufacturer’s directions.’ Although many of us shy away from using pesticides, when it comes to ticks chemical control could be the best option – especially when you are dealing with a well-established infestation. For ticks, opt for a permethrin spray, such as Wondercide flea and tick spray, available at Amazon, and spray directly on affected areas. Make sure you follow the manufacturer's instructions and are wearing protective clothing and a mask when spraying pesticides, and ensure it is safe for the plants in your yard before application. Wonderside Pesticide | $37.99 at Amazon This targeted pesticide is safe for most garden plants, and is safe for use around people and pets, making it a great preventative spray for the most troublesome of outdoor pests. View Deal Nematodes can be used to tackle several different pests in your yard, from natural slug control to getting rid of lawn grubs. These beneficial microscopic worms will feast on tick larvae before they hatch, stopping the spread of an infestation, explains Zahid Adan, gardener at The Plant Bible. You can get beneficial nematodes at Walmart, and these are safe for humans, pets, and pollinators too. They're the perfect natural control measure, especially considering that ticks can lay thousands of eggs at a time. Although we largely encourage the planting of wildlife gardens and full borders, ticks thrive in these dense, covered environments. If you live in an area with a lot of ticks, then a hostile border with stones, dirt, or wood chips in full sun creates a dry barren section that ticks are unable to traverse. This is good for around your yard to prevent ticks coming in in the first place, suggests Jim McHale, entomologist, and CEO of JP McHale Pest Management. ‘Create a 3 foot barrier using wood chips or gravel around the perimeter of your yard to keep ticks out. Ticks prefer cool, moist areas, so trimming large bushes, trees, and shrubs allows for more direct sunlight in your yard, making it a less hospitable environment for them. ‘You can also consider a fence around your backyard that is tall enough to keep out deer and other animals that carry ticks.’ In a similar vein to controlling your borders, staying on top of mowing, especially mowing in spring as ‘tick season’ begins, will prevent ticks from hiding in your lawn, Jim McHale, pest control expert, continues. ‘Frequent mowing and keeping a well-managed landscape are the best ways to reduce tick activity,’ he shares. ‘This will enable your family to enjoy the outdoors with fewer risks associated with disease transmission.’ Ticks spread by latching onto a host and using them to travel. In yards, this is likely to be wild mammals such as squirrels, raccoons, foxes, and rodents. To prevent them from being carried into your yard, use fences and natural deterrents to prevent animals from getting into your yard, and leave larger areas of short grass or hostile borders with dirt or wood chips to prevent the ticks from crawling from long grasses into the parts of your yard you regularly use.  The quickest way to eradicate tick populations in your yard is to cut back long grass to remove any favorable habitats and spray with a pesticide targeted for ticks. This should help to kill off any living ticks and their larvae quickly and efficiently so you can get on top of adding preventative measures before they come back or spread.  When working to get rid of ticks, it is important that you wear the right protective clothing to avoid getting bitten, such as long trousers, socks and thick boots, gloves, and a long-sleeved top. When you suspect ticks in your yard, you should: keep any children or pets away from the area, educate family about the dangers of ticks and Lyme disease, and check under pets' fur for any hard lumps that could be a latched on ticks, taking anyone with a bite to a doctor (or vet) for safe removal.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.