By Raven Saunt For Dailymail.Com   Published:  15:16 EDT, 15 June 2023   |  Updated:  15:58 EDT, 15 June 2023      15 View  comments  Jeopardy! has been on screens since 1964 - and has more than its fair share of blunders and controversy over the years.  Just this week, the hit show made headlines once again after contestants on Tuesday's episode failed to answer a 'simple' question about the Lord's Prayer during the game. Players Joe, Laura, and Suresh were unable to give the correct answer to host Mayim Bialik's question regarding the commonly recited lines. 'Matthew 6:9 says, "Our Father, which art in heaven, [THIS] be thy name," Bialik said, asking the group to fill in the blank with the correct word. Just this week, players Joe (center), Laura (right), and Suresh (left) were unable to give the correct answer to host Mayim Bialik's question regarding the commonly recited prayer 'Jeopardy!' fans were furious after the contestants on Tuesday's episode failed to answer a 'simple' question about the Lord's Prayer during the game Shockingly, the group made an error of biblical proportions by not even attempting to guess the correct answer as the stage remained silent until Bialik gave the answer. But it is not the first time there has been a mishap - with previous contestants causing a stir with mispronunciations, embarrassing grammar and some very cheeky answers. The hosts have also found themselves in hot water on numerous occasions with editing woes only adding to their plight. Here, FEMAIL has laid bare the worst Jeopardy! fails and faux pas that have happened in recent years. Contestant leaves viewers in stitches after making very relatable grammatical error  Law student Jack Weller appeared as a contestant on the Second Chance Tournament show in October 2022. It was billed as a never-before-done redemption competition - with Weller having previously been knocked out during a rare tie-break the year before.  He went on to win the show but it was not before making an embarrassing grammatical blunder during the round titled 'Plurals That Don't End in S.' Weller, from San Diego, was given a simple clue of 'moose.' Law student Jack Weller made an embarrassing grammatical blunder during the round titled 'Plurals That Don't End in S' Weller, from San Diego, was given a simple clue of 'moose' and he instinctively answered: 'What are meese?' And, seemingly following the same language patterns as 'goose,' instinctively answered: 'What are meese?' But the embarrassing error left the audience in stitches. Host Jennings was also left astounded. He audibly laughed before chiding: 'No! No, Jack!' Weller's fellow contestant soon swooped in with the correct answer - which is, of course, moose. All three contestants take risky gamble that doesn't pay off - with the show ending in a three-way $0 finish In February 2013, during a Teen Tournament, the Jeopardy! contestants went down in history for the wrong reasons. Because, for the first time in a semifinal match, all three ended up with no money - and no hope of sailing through to the next round. The stumbling block came after being given the clue: 'It's crisscrossed by dozens of "peace walls" that separate its Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods.' At the start of the round, their scores had been healthy - with $16,400, $2,000 and $1,600 on the board. In February 2013, during a Teen Tournament, the Jeopardy! contestants went down in history for the wrong reasons - after all three ended up with no money The stumbling block came after being given the clue: 'It's crisscrossed by dozens of "peace walls" that separate its Catholic and Protestant neighborhoods' But the trio took a gamble which didn't pay off after all three bet their entire pot that the answer was Dublin But the trio took a gamble which didn't pay off after all three bet their entire pot that the answer was Dublin. The contestants looked distraught after finding out that the correct answer was in fact Belfast.   Host Alex Trebek softly revealed: 'With three zeroes there, what that means is we have no winner today - and this is the first time it has ever occurred in one of our tournaments.' He went on to say that, as a result, the highest-scoring runner up from any of the other semi final games would be able to progress through to the next round instead.  Ken Jennings left blushing after appearing on the show as a contestant and providing very cheeky answer In 2004, former software engineer Ken Jennings, who now co-hosts the show, appeared as a contestant. And, despite still holding the record for the longest winning streak, he ended up stumbling during a round on 'Tool Time.' Opting for the $200 slot, the prompt was: 'This term for a long handled gardening tool can also mean an immoral pleasure seeker.' Jennings was left red-faced when he quickly answered 'what is a hoe?' - which was deemed incorrect.  In 2004, former software engineer Ken Jennings, who now co-hosts the show, appeared as a contestant Opting for the $200 slot, the prompt was: 'This term for a long handled gardening tool can also mean an immoral pleasure seeker' Then host Alex Trebek replied: 'Whoa. They teach you that in school in Utah, huh?' The audience burst into raptures of laughter before Jennings' fellow contestant provided the correct answer of 'what is a rake?'  In recent years, after the clip resurfaced, Jennings addressed the mishap and joked: 'I still think I was shafted, quite frankly.  'I think I'm owed $200 and, you know, maybe the writers should get a pool together.' Flustered contestant branded as a 'creep' after giving shocking response to question about 'puberty' In April 2015, one Jeopardy contestant made a lasting impression for all the wrong reasons after giving a very inappropriate answer. Host Alex Trebek asked: 'In common law, the age of this, signaling adulthood, is presumed to be 14 in boys & 12 in girls?' The first contestant to press his buzzer was Tom, a freemason, who inexplicably answered: 'What is the age of consent?'   The correct answer is of course: 'What is puberty?', while the age of consent in the US varies between 16 and 18 depending on the state.  In April 2015, Jeopardy contestant Tom made a lasting impression for all the wrong reasons after giving a very inappropriate answer Host Alex Trebek asked: 'In common law, the age of this, signaling adulthood, is presumed to be 14 in boys & 12 in girls?' But viewers watching at home could not contain their horror at what Tom's answer appeared to imply and dozens took to Twitter to voice their opinions. One wrote: 'Holy s*** that "age of consent" guess was the creepiest answer I've ever heard.' 'If "age of consent" is what you think of when it's 'age 12 for boys, age 13 for girls' you need help,' another added. A third wrote: 'Did anyone else see the creep on Jeopardy who thought 12 was the age of consent for girls.' Viewers left furious after professor wins the show despite giving 'wrong answer' In March this year, fans of the beloved trivia show were left up in arms following a win by professor Melissa Klapper. During the end of the first round, the final question from a category called 'Quite the Fishy Story' was played for $600. The clue presented by host Ken Jennings read: 'The force of Lasse Hallström was strong to pull in this Scot to play a fisheries expert in Salmon Fishing in the Yemen.' Klapper, from Pennsylvania, responded with what sounded like: 'Ewan Gregor.' In March this year, fans of the beloved trivia show were left up in arms following a win by professor Melissa Klapper  The clue presented by host Ken Jennings read: 'The force of Lasse Hallström was strong to pull in this Scot to play a fisheries expert in Salmon Fishing in the Yemen'  But the name of the actor in the 2011 film is Ewan McGregor. Nonetheless, Jennings confirmed it was the right answer and closed the category, stating: 'That is correct, taking you to $5,200, you're just off the lead.' Fans were quick to employ their rewind buttons to see if they could make out what Klapper really said - but viewers were left fiercely divided. By the end of the show, she had clinched a narrow victory over her fellow contestants - teacher Jake Garrett and marketing communications specialist Kelly Barry - which did not sit well with the audience. Jeopardy! executives forced to issue an apology of their own following 'horrible' editing bungle  It seems that it is not just the Jeopardy! contestants who make mistakes - with fans sent into a tailspin after a bad edit accidentally revealed the episode's winner. The error took place during the show's March 8 episode as host Mayim Bialik congratulated players for making it onto the long-running game show. Jackson Jones' score of $24,000 was shown, while fellow contestants Justin Bolsen's $13,570 and Maya Wright's $3,370 tally were also revealed. Trivia fans were quick to notice the blunder, storming the Twittersphere with their disappointment. The error took place during the show's March 8 episode as host Mayim Bialik congratulated players for making it onto the long-running game show  Jackson Jones' score of $24,000 was shown, while fellow contestants Justin Bolsen's $13,570 and Maya Wright's $3,370 tally were also revealed  As a result, executive producer Michael Davies issued an apology and admitted that the production team 'blew it.'  Davies admitted that a 'horrible error' had been made when the final scores were revealed in the opening cutaway shot during Bialik's monologue. He said that it was a sequence of errors which led to the catastrophic reveal but added that re-taping the opening dialogue was fairly standard for the show. The groveling executive said as part of his apology that ensuring something like that never happens again is the most important outcome for the popular game show. Ken Jennings criticized after perceived inconsistency in rulings on contestants changing their answers In September last year, host Ken Jennings caused quite the stir when he allowed a contestant to amend an answer that he had already given. Luigi de Guzman was among the contestants appearing on the show with the category being Cons.  The clue was, 'Here's a typical 19th-century landscape by this British painter,' with an accompanying photo of the painting, to which de Guzman responded, 'Who is Constant?' Jennings said, 'Say it again' to which de Guzman said, 'Sorry, who is Constable?' which was deemed correct. In September last year, host Ken Jennings caused quite the stir when he allowed a contestant to amend an answer that he had already given  Luigi de Guzman (left) was among the contestants appearing on the show with the category being Cons  In another instance on the episode, contestant Harriet Wagner also attempted to amend her answer, which Jennings did not accept. Wagner answered, 'Who is Angela LeGuin - sorry, Ursula LeGuin,' to which Jennings said, 'Yes, Harriet, you remembered that her name was Ursula, but I had already begun ruling against you when you began correcting yourself.' On the game show's website, the rule says that 'contestants may change their responses as long as neither the host nor the judges have made a ruling.' Dozens of fans of the game show took to social media at the time to vent their displeasure with what they deemed to be inconsistent rulings.  Unlucky contestant held the record for lowest Jeopardy! score ever for more than five years Stephanie Hull appeared on the show in March 2015 - but her performance was more than lackluster. She has since revealed that she arrived on the Jeopardy! set with a game plan in mind which ultimately did not pay off. The strategy was to opt for questions of higher value first in a bid to boost her lead early on. However, when the game went into the Double Jeopardy round, things started to go down hill. Stephanie Hull (right) appeared on the show in March 2015 - but her performance was more than lackluster Hull attempted every $2,000 question but all of her answers were incorrect. She finished the round with a whopping -$6800 and held the title for the lowest ever score for more than five years. It was not until July 2021 that contestant Patrick Pearce, from California, finally claimed the unwelcome title. The production specialist came out of his episode with a desperately low score of -$7,400. 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group