From Apple Airpods to Brooks sneakers. Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us?  We'll keep it straight with you: a lot of the massive discounts from Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days are gone (womp womp). But lucky for you, MH's intrepid team of commerce editors have found some great leftover discounts, spanning TVs, running shoes, home gym equipment, and menswear. Navigating Amazon's sales inventory can feel like a fool's errand, with some merchants and third party sellers' notoriously confusing pricing system. To make sure we're finding the best deals, we ran most of these sales through camelcamelcamel.com, our go-to price tracker, and cross referenced these prices with other ecommerce sites, to make sure these sales are legit. These markdowns come in clutch if you want to get your holiday shopping done early, and avoid the chaos of Black Friday crowds. Ahead are the best-of-the-best Post-Prime Day deals to shop now.  We're seeing great deals on the Apple Airpods 2nd Generation, which were further marked down after Prime Day. If you're looking for alternative Apple steals, there's also a decent sale on the Microsoft Surface Pro, and Marshall's Stanmore II, the latter of which was dubbed one of the best bluetooth speakers by our tech editors.  Stocking up on menswear? Check out these fall-ready fashion picks, from Champion's famed fleece sweatshirt, to Dockers' performance pants that are purpose made for the office. Consider this section a one-stop discount shop for all your business casual fits. Level up your race gear with these serious steals. A lot of these picks have been approved by our fitness editors, including the Asics Gel-Nimbus 24, Brooks Hyperion Tempo, and the uber-popular Adidas Ultraboost 23.  Golf guys rejoice: there are still some sales to be had across some of our favorite golf brands. See: Spalding's 14-piece Golf Set (a classic), Callaway's Fairway C Stand Bag, and Wilson's M5 Golf Putter, a favorite amongst our gear editors. Stay ready (so you don't have to get ready) for winter treks with these discounted gadgets. Some of our favorites: LUWATT's Heated Gloves, Bosttor's LED Beanie Hat (an Oprah's Favorite pick), and Garmin's eTrex 10 Navigator. Powerblock's EXP, which our fitness team dubbed one of the best adjustable dumbbells , is still discounted, as well as CAP's dumbbell set. You can't go wrong with any of these fitness deals. The absolute best electric shaver brand we've tested also has some of the best grooming deals we've seen on Amazon. Save big on the Series 7, as well as the Series 9 Pro, which we love for their powerful-but-quiet motors that mow through stubble with ease.  Prime Day Tech Deals | Prime Day Sneaker Deals | Prime Day Watch Sales | Prime Day Hoka Deals | Prime Day Garmin Deals | Prime Day Apple Deals | Amazon Secret Coupon Page | Prime Day Golf Gear Deals | Prime Day Cole Haan Deals | Prime Day Asics Deals A Fitness Editor's Favorite Deals On Home Gym Gear We Found the on Headphones for Your Workout Log In These Gaming Deals Now, They Won't Last Save Up to 47% on Post-Prime Day Deals Rowing Machines Deals Still Going Post-Prime Day The Oura Ring Sale Is Still Live After Prime Day The Top Watches Are 60% Off in Post-Prime Day Sale The Apple Watch Ultra 2 Is Still $100 Off The Best of Brooks Prime Day Running Shoe Sale The Original Peloton Is $350 Off for Prime Day Hydrow Rowing Machines Are $460 Off This Prime Day Amazon Prime Day 2024: Save Up to 65% on Gear A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.