 Marathi | Hindi FOLLOW US :   City  By PNN | Published: July 20, 2023 11:13 AM2023-07-20T11:13:31+5:302023-07-20T11:15:03+5:30 New Delhi (India), July 20: Wolf777 proudly announces the appointment of renowned cricketer Shane Watson as its brand ambassador. The collaboration between Wolf777 and Watson aims to elevate the sports platform’s presence and enhance its commitment to delivering top-notch content to its users. Wolf777 is a leading sports website that caters to fans and users alike, offering a one-stop destination for the latest sports news, expert analysis and live scores platform. Wolf777 is dedicated to providing an immersive experience for sports enthusiasts worldwide. Wolf777 proudly announces the appointment of renowned cricketer Shane Watson as its brand ambassador. The collaboration between Wolf777 and Watson aims to elevate the sports platform’s presence and enhance its commitment to delivering top-notch content to its users. With an illustrious career spanning over two decades, Shane Watson is widely regarded as one of the most accomplished all-rounders in the history of cricket. His exceptional batting prowess, formidable bowling skills, and unparalleled passion for the game have earned him a place among the legends of the sport. As Wolf777’s brand ambassador, Watson will bring his wealth of experience, expertise, and infectious enthusiasm to the platform. His association with the website will not only strengthen its reputation but also enhance the overall user experience by providing valuable insights and exclusive content to fans across the globe. Even he is super excited and thrilled to be associated with Wolf777, “I am really excited about my partnership with Wolf777. I can’t wait to bring you expert analysis along with some exclusive content with my favourite predictions for Ashes, One Day World Cup and other upcoming cricket tournaments. Register now and win big”. He looks forward to working closely with the Wolf777 team for all these cricketing extravaganzas to bring the best of sports to fans worldwide. As part of this tie-up, Wolf777 users can expect the benefit of trust to join and play on this site. From cricket to football, basketball to tennis, Wolf777 will continue to offer comprehensive coverage, ensuring users have access to the most up-to-date information and the best odds in the industry. If you have any objection to this press release content, kindly contact pr.error.rectification[at]gmail.com to notify us. We will respond and rectify the situation in the next 24 hours. Disclaimer: This post has been auto-published from an agency feed without any modifications to the text and has not been reviewed by an editor FOLLOW US :   Copyright ©2024 Lokmat Media Pvt Ltd