Vanja Josifovski is the Co-Founder and CEO of Kumo AI.   In the ever-expanding digital landscape, where choices seem limitless, AI-powered personalization has emerged as a game-changer. Whether it's selecting the next movie to watch from thousands of options or navigating the vast array of products on e-commerce platforms, AI recommendation and personalization engines are becoming indispensable tools for enhancing customer experiences. AI personalization is helping to address the “choice overload” phenomena where individuals report lower choice satisfaction when faced with too many options. AI personalization is a win-win for both consumers who experience greater satisfaction and businesses that are finding whole new corridors of competition. Staid industries can find new growth in a systematic exploration of the long tale of additional competitive offerings. AI is just beginning to revolutionize personalization, and in this, it will enable a completely new scale of business that was previously unsustainable. Gone are the days when you would enter a store with a few hundred products to choose from. The digital era has ushered in a new reality with an overwhelming scale of options. Imagine stepping into a store with five million products or scrolling through countless movies on streaming platforms. Choice overload is often leading to no choice being made with the average 2023 documented online shopping cart abandonment at a rate of 69.99%. Without AI-powered recommendation engines, navigating this sea of choices is an arduous task and for the business, there is tremendous revenue potential in being able to close just a small percent of those abandoned carts. Consider also the manufacturer’s challenge of identifying the right number of colors or feature factors to produce each season. Too many SKUs with declining sales returns risk destroying margins, but with AI personalization, the length of time for identifying a preference is shortened from months to days—maybe even minutes—allowing for new forms of just-in-time-manufacturing and enabling competition on microfeatures and real-time production. Personalization and recommendation algorithms have become the backbone of the digital world. Taking them to the next level with AI will enable users to discover relevant content and products with ease, while simultaneously enabling new categories of competition within every industry. The complexity and demanding nature of AI-driven personalization require specialized expertise that goes beyond the capabilities of most enterprises. And the demand for AI, spanning across every industry will most likely outstrip the capacity of the market to supply. Already, industry analysts from Andreessen-Horowitz have identified a massive 10X shortage of cloud computing resources coming from the expansion of AI in business. Just as organizations turned to cloud providers like AWS to handle infrastructure requirements, outsourcing AI expertise can be advantageous. By partnering with AI specialists, businesses can utilize the latest cutting-edge advancements and access top-tier talent to work on their problems with the costs being distributed across multiple companies. AI-as-a-Service allows companies to focus on their core competencies while leveraging the expertise of AI professionals to deliver better outcomes. For many, it can be an accelerated path to value. While AI-driven personalization offers immense benefits, it also raises concerns about data privacy and ethical use. Collecting and analyzing user data to deliver personalized experiences requires a careful balance between customization and respecting individuals' privacy rights. Privacy rights are largely governed by regional governments such as the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation. In the U.S., you have a complicated network of federal, state and industry self-regulation policies. Regulation becomes even more scant outside of these jurisdictions. In the name of their own brand values and competitive differentiation, businesses should prioritize data security, transparency and consent to ensure ethical AI practices—Apple is a good example here. The implementation of robust privacy policies and adherence to regulatory frameworks is just the beginning of how to build trust with customers and mitigate potential risks and shouldn’t be underestimated. To succeed in the era of AI-powered personalization, businesses should shift their focus from buying technology to buying outcomes. Outcomes in AI can come in many shapes, such as service-level agreements, operations costs or, coming back to privacy rights, compliance guarantees. It's crucial to find AI partners who are at the forefront of innovation and capable of bringing rapid advancements to your organization. However, it is equally important to seek partners who align with your business goals and prioritize delivering tangible value. And with increasing technology-cloud costs, the business stakes of failure also increase putting additional emphasis on the need for outcomes. By emphasizing outcomes rather than technology, businesses can create sustainable, personalized experiences that drive customer satisfaction for long-term growth. AI-powered personalization is becoming a realization engine for what users truly want in a world of unlimited choices. From streaming platforms to e-commerce, recommendation engines have already transformed commerce. With AI personalization, we will see another step change in business transformation. And by doing so, it will create new engines for business growth that will transform every industry. Focusing on outcomes vs. technology will be required of businesses in order to be competitive as they embrace this transforming power. AI-as-a-Service will allow businesses to sustainably overcome technical challenges and deliver personalized experiences at scale more rapidly. And prioritizing data privacy and ethical AI practices is something every company must adopt in order to build trust and credibility in this new world. And ultimately, it's not just about buying technology: it's about buying outcomes that enhance customer experiences and drive business growth in this next digital era. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 