Pieke Roelofs used the AI-image generator Dream by Wombo to create Barbie memes and reaction images. The Dutch artist began prompting the program to weigh in on trending topics she saw on her X feed. Many of the images include internet-culture references and poke fun at different political views. The Dutch artist Pieke Roelofs used an artificial-intelligence tool to generate dozens of images of Barbie in unusual scenarios. The poet, spoken-word artist, and activist used the app Dream by Wombo to create reactionary images of Barbie packed with internet-culture references she could post in response to what comes up on her X feed. Roelofs started prompting the images as a way to have fun and weigh in on topics online. But in the process, she's subverted Barbie's gaze by reimagining what it means to be Barbie."For the last two weeks, I've been tweeting Barbies and making remarks online on things that pop up on my feed," Roelofs told Insider. "I was constantly spammed on my feed with Barbie because of the release of the movie, and at that point, I decided to prompt an AI tool to create Barbie memes and reaction images." Roelofs said that since Elon Musk bought Twitter and rebranded it to X, she'd noticed more extreme opinions showing up on her timeline. She said she'd been seeing far-left and far-right posts constantly battling each other online. "I was watching this happening and thought I'm going to say something that's satirical and a bit ridiculous in response," she said. "Some of them are really random posts, and they're not that deep." Take a look at some of Roelofs' AI-generated Barbie memes and reaction images. "We ride at dawn" Barbie If you use the same words in a prompt, it will not generate the exact same image again, Roelofs said: "Once you start prompting, sometimes if you're a bit vague, it starts to create very random images." She typically uses a string of words rather than one to prompt the images. She likens the use of the AI tool to the movie "Everything Everywhere All At Once," in which one character says that "everything is just a random arrangement of particles in a vibrating superposition." Roelofs compares this quote to the use of AI because by changing a prompt's wording, it can produce entirely different images. Space Barbie The "we ride at dawn" Barbie was created in reference to the Big Bird meme that uses the same caption. It was posted in response to a video showing the dangers of farming in Louisiana as a result of a high population of alligators. Roelofs posted Space Barbie, with an approving expression, with the words "I approve" in response to an image and caption. It describes a woman who sparked controversy after she ripped off part of the Bible asking wives to be submissive to their husbands and used it to smoke weed. Barbie smoking weed Roelofs posted this Barbie in response to a news article about Uber filing a patent for an AI system that could tell if passengers were drunk and if they could be refused a ride. Alongside the Barbie image, she wrote: "One can always hotbox an Uber."  A viral American Airlines passenger turned into a Barbie A TikTok of a woman accusing a fellow American Airlines passenger of not being "real" went viral in July. Many social-media users used a still image from the video to post memes. "Get in loser, we're going shopping" This AI-generated image of three Barbies sitting in a car references a scene from the movie "Mean Girls," in which one character tells another: "Get in, loser — we're going shopping."     "Barbenheimer" meets "Nope" An alien from the movie "Nope" was reimagined as a Barbie wearing a hat in a similar shape, as AI "Barbie" and AI "Robert Oppenheimer" look on. The disaster-girl meme turned into a Barbie Roelofs turned the popular "disaster girl" meme of a smirking child standing in front of a burning building into a Barbie to poke fun at Doja Cat releasing a new single. It was a light-hearted attempt to draw attention to the performer being criticized recently over her treatment of fans.     Barbie growing weed in space The artist says that using the right word as a prompt can produce an image close to what you'd visualized. "Very often, I can get the stereotypical Barbie face if I prompt right enough," she said. "If I ask it to do way too many things, it becomes more complex because then it also starts to influence the face more and it can look a bit creepy, so you have to really be specific." Ben Shapiro reimagined as Ken After Roelofs saw references to the Barbie movie all over social media, she realized that one of the messages was that Barbie could be anyone — even the conservative writer Ben Shapiro. "I thought, OK, if Barbie can be everything, then I'm going to turn her into everything, from riding a crocodile to doing drugs and all sorts of things that are not expected," she said. Unicorn Barbie Roelofs said she enjoyed making the images because it's an outlet for creative expression that could visualize her "bizarre or random thoughts." Two Barbies referencing the "this is fine" meme Roelofs posted this image with the caption "Yes, all women are conspiring against in you" in response to a post by the controversial British influencer Andrew Tate that says to "lock up every single girlfriend and wife on the planet." Barbie gets high Images of Barbie smoking weed subvert the doll's typical depiction — just don't expect Mattel to release Weed Barbie anytime soon. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.