"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." In the ever-evolving landscape of contemporary music, few artists have made as seismic an impact as Bad Bunny. With his genre-defying sound, unapologetic individuality, and magnetic stage presence, Puerto Rican global sensation Benito Antonio Martínez Ocasio (his given name) has transcended borders and reshaped the music industry as we know it. As fans from every corner of the globe eagerly await Bad Bunny's next move, we're excited to spread the word that the Grammy-award winner is gearing up to embark on his most eagerly anticipated tour to date. From the streets of San Juan to sold-out arenas worldwide, Bad Bunny's Most Wanted Tour kicks off in Utah in February next year and concludes in Miami come May. Bad Bunny's Most Wanted Tour spans 31 cities and 47 shows across North America. Almost all stops are in the U.S., but there is one show in Toronto. Pre-sale tickets will be available on Ticketmaster on October 25, but you would have had to register ahead of time, Taylor Swift-style. Registration for pre-sale ended on October 22, and due to demand, only randomly selected people will get the email telling them if they were chosen to participate in the ticket sale on October 25. If you weren't chosen, you will get an email from Ticketmaster that you ended up on the waitlist. Womp womp! All hope isn't lost, but it'll cost you. While tickets are not readily available for purchase through Ticketmaster unless you lucked out with a pre-sale code, you can head to StubHub, Vivid Seats, and SeatGeek to score your seats. See below for show dates and other helpful tips on seeing Bad Bunny's concert. February 21, 2024 - Delta Center in Salt Lake City, UT February 23, 2024 - T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, NV February 24, 2024 - T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, NV February 27, 2024 - Footprint Center in Phoenix, AZ February 28, 2024 - Footprint Center in Phoenix, AZ March 1, 2024 - Chase Center in San Francisco, CA March 2, 2024 - Chase Center in San Francisco, CA March 5, 2024 - Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, CA March 7, 2024 - Moda Center in Portland, OR March 9, 2024 - Climate Pledge Arena in Seattle, WA March 13, 2024 - Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, CA March 14, 2024 - Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, CA March 15, 2024 - Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, CA March 20, 2024 - Ball Arena in Denver, CO March 23, 2024 - Target Center in Minneapolis, MN March 26, 2024 - T-Mobile Center in Kansas City, MO March 28, 2024 - United Center in Chicago, IL March 29, 2024 - United Center in Chicago, IL March 30, 2024 - United Center in Chicago, IL April 4, 2024 - Scotiabank Arena in Toronto, Ontario, Canada April 6, 2024 - Little Caesars Arena in Detroit, MI April 9, 2024 - Capital One Arena in Washington, DC April 11, 2024 - Barclays Center in New York, NY April 12, 2024 - Barclays Center in New York, NY April 13, 2024 - Barclays Center in New York, NY April 17, 2024 - TD Garden in Boston, MA April 19, 2024 - Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia, PA April 20, 2024 - XL Center in Hartford, CT April 22, 2024 - KFC Yum! Center in Louisville, KY April 24, 2024 - BOK Center in Tulsa, OK April 26, 2024 - Moody Center in Austin, TX April 27, 2024 - Moody Center in Austin, TX April 30, 2024 - Toyota Center in Houston, TX May 1, 2024 - Toyota Center in Houston, TX May 3, 2024 - American Airlines Center in Dallas, TX May 4, 2024 - American Airlines Center in Dallas, TX May 7, 2024 - Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, LA May 10, 2024 - Spectrum Center in Charlotte, NC May 11, 2024 - Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, TN May 14, 2024 - State Farm Arena in Atlanta, GA May 15, 2024 - State Farm Arena in Atlanta, GA May 17, 2024 - Amway Center in Orlando, FL May 18, 2024 - Amway Center in Orlando, FL May 21, 2024 - Amalie Arena in Tampa, FL May 24, 2024 - Kaseya Center in Miami, FL May 25, 2024 - Kaseya Center in Miami, FL May 26, 2024 - Kaseya Center in Miami, FL Prices vary by section, seat, and view. On resale site StubHub, for instance, the cheapest Bad Bunny Most Wanted tickets are going for around $400 in the upper sections. While StubHub didn't have any floor seats available for purchase, we spotted some at Vivid Seats for upwards of $1500. On StubHub, there's a note that reads, "Exact floor and stage layout is not available yet. Floor tickets can either be standing or seated, and row and seat information may not indicate distance from the stage." So there are some unknowns here. As far as the "best available seats" go outside of the floor, you can expect to spend upwards of $1,000 from resale sites. These raised sections will be the ones closest to the floor but not actually on the floor. We theorize that after the presale happens, more floor seats will become available on resale sites, in addition to other sections with various views. It's also important to note that resellers control what they'll charge. Price tags will fluctuate based on demand. Watch prices from day to day to gauge when's best for you to ultimately purchase. We're really not sure how this could be possible for huge stadium tours, but a press release stated that the Bad Bunny Most Wanted tour will allow early fans to "enjoy him in a more intimate setting." Sources are telling various outlets that Benito is aiming to take fans back to his Latin trap roots, so we are predicting you'll probably hear bangers, "Ahora Me Llama," "Sensualidad," and "Estamos Bien." Only time will tell. As soon as he has his first show, keep an eye out for reviews to learn more about the concert experience, not to mention any surprise guests. Bad Bunny has enough collaborations, after all. One thing we're sure you can expect is long merch lines, so plan accordingly. Arrive early enough to be able to wait to buy your tour items. Or, seek out the setlist ahead of time on setlist.fm to find a window during the show where you can skip a couple of songs that are not at the top of your list. We have yet to learn who will be opening for Bad Bunny on this particular tour. However, DJs Alesso and Diplo opened for Bad Bunny during his Bad Bunny: The World's Hottest Tour in 2022. Time to use those filters, Bad Bunny lovers! As you search for seats on ticket sale sites, you'll be able to toggle based on preferences like sections and prices. As you select tickets, remember to take note of where the seats are in relation to the stage. To arm yourself with success, you can use AViewFromMySeat.com, which gives you user-generated photos of the venues from previous visits. We hope all of this helps and you get to see Bad Bunny in 2024! You Might Also Like Nicole Richie’s Surprising Adoption Story The Story of Gypsy Rose Blanchard and Her Mother Queen Camilla's Life in Photos New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.