With a carbon fibre frame and powerful componentry this electric bike looks like a winner 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Consumer Electronics Show – or CES to its friends – started out as what it sounds like: a show about consumer electronics. Nowadays, however, it's also one of the world's biggest car shows, with all manner of glorious EVs to lust after, whilst secretly worrying about their range. What we haven't seen much of at the show this year – or indeed any other year – are many bicycles. However, OKAI has this highly impressive carbon fibre ebike to show off: the OKAI EB20.  As bitchin' as it is, in all-black carbon, with a solid set of components bolted to it, I'd say this is a bike aimed at techies, as opposed to 'cycling people'. After all, it's being demo'd at CES, which is for techies.   It's also demoing at CES alongside the OKAI SP10, which is this 'smart backpack' that has integrated lighting that powers up and flashes in sync with the lighting on your fancy new EB20 ebike.  Oh, and it's also got an 'ultraviolet light disinfection chamber', and a fingerprint sensor to unlock it. But of course it does!   The EB20 has a 750W motor, which suggests a top speed that isn't strictly legal in many places Carbon fibre ebikes are still pretty unusual, and with good reason – you can use all the carbon you like, and they're still going to be pretty heavy compared to a bike that doesn't have a massive battery and motor strapped to it. However, carbon fibre is very cool looking, and immediately makes any bike seem more racey and high-end.  The OKAI EB20 is more of a mountain bike – in fact OKAI describes it specifically as a 'four-link, soft tailed e-Bike'. It's got 12-speed Shimano XT gearing and a 750W motor that arguably makes said gearing a bit irrelevant, since you'll be able to shift down the road and over any obstacle or hill almost regardless of what gear you're in. That's if you are a terrible and lazy cyclist like me, anyway, who can seldom be bothered messing about with such fripperies as a gear shifter.  OKAI in fact describes it as 'fully compatible with a broad range of professional MTB components from leading manufacturers', which presumably means the spec will vary. However the 'official' spec includes a Samsung 14.7Ah ultra long-life battery, SunTour front fork and rear suspension, TEKTRO hydraulic disk brakes, Shimano XT rear transmission, thumb shifter, hubs, chain and flywheel and a Banfang 750W motor.  Get the latest news, reviews, deals and buying guides on gorgeous tech, home and active products straight to your inbox. Rounding out the line-up are a 2.8-inch touchscreen to control the motor and view your speed and distance, etc, front and rear lights, and an NFC key for 'smart unlocking options'. Actually, it's not just a key, it's a folding key, which is a new one on me. You can also lock and unlock from your phone, of course. The 750W Bafang motor should absolutely shred any trails you come across, although I suspect this will end up seeing more use in the urban jungle. Enthusiasts of ebike law will be aware that a 750W motor is well and truly not street legal in many US states, and most of the world outside America. However, OKAI is at pains to state that 250W and 500W motor options are also possible.  The OKAI SP10 is packed with even more gadgetry than its ebike sibling Also on show at CES is this bad-ass looking backpack, which matches the EB20's colour scheme – ie: it's black – and has even more technological innovations inside it. Described by OKAI as 'without doubt the smartest backpack', it has a customisable RGB light strip that can sync with the bike's lights. Its feature set also boasts all of the following.  • Ultraviolet light disinfection chamber! • Fingerprint sensor for secure access! • Integrated power bank with internal and external access for device charging! • Subtle interior lighting 'to assist users on the road at night'! • Bluetooth connectivity! • Key wake up feature! • All features can be controlled via OKAI's app! OKAI says that 'today’s riders and commuters care more than ever about sanitization,' which is news to me. However, if you are a germophobe, the integrated UV sterilisation chamber could be just the place to keep your phone, door pass or packed lunch. 'Disinfection is automatically suspended if the backpack is opened and automatically continued once closed,' you'll be gladdened to hear. I don't have any details on pricing or availability on the OKAI ebike and backpack as yet – they are very much at the 'demo' stage at CES. However you can… Duncan is the former lifestyle editor of T3 and has been writing about tech for almost 15 years. He has covered everything from smartphones to headphones, TV to AC and air fryers to the movies of James Bond and obscure anime. His current brief is everything to do with the home and kitchen, which is good because he is an excellent cook, if he says so himself. He also covers cycling and ebikes – like over-using italics, this is another passion of his. In his long and varied lifestyle-tech career he is one of the few people to have been a fitness editor despite being unfit and a cars editor for not one but two websites, despite being unable to drive. He also has about 400 vacuum cleaners, and is possibly the UK's leading expert on cordless vacuum cleaners, despite being decidedly messy. A cricket fan for over 30 years, he also recently become T3's cricket editor, writing about how to stream obscure T20 tournaments, and turning out some typically no-nonsense opinions on the world's top teams and players. Before T3, Duncan was a music and film reviewer, worked for a magazine about gambling that employed a surprisingly large number of convicted criminals, and then a magazine called Bizarre that was essentially like a cross between Reddit and DeviantArt, before the invention of the internet. There was also a lengthy period where he essentially wrote all of T3 magazine every month for about 3 years.  A broadcaster, raconteur and public speaker, Duncan used to be on telly loads, but an unfortunate incident put a stop to that, so he now largely contents himself with telling people, "I used to be on the TV, you know."  
Canyon unveils limited-edition MACH 874 bikes inspired by Paris Olympics performance
 
By Matt Kollat

Published 18 August 24

 
The popular shooter will be even more user-friendly
 
By Sam Cross

Published 18 August 24

 
There’s no jumping involved either
 
By Bryony Firth-Bernard

Published 24 August 23

 
Try this no-nonsense cardio workout to improve cardio health and burn tons of calories fast
 
By Jack Phillips

Published 12 January 23

 
Get fit in the downstairs neighbour-friendly way this Christmas
 
By Meg Walters

Published 4 December 22

 
Multi-position Flex Cycle joins Wondercise range including advanced movement tracking and a social network for fitness
 
By Duncan Bell

Last updated 10 January 22

 
The Withings Body Scan can measure a heap load of health metrics including vascular age and more
 
By Matt Kollat

Published 5 January 22

 
Echelon EX-8s also features colour-changing wheels based on heart rate, ergonomic resistance control and more
 
By Matt Kollat

Last updated 5 January 22

 
New Bowflex Treadmill 22 with "real-time auto-adjusting" running belt announced at CES 2021
 
By Matt Kollat

Last updated 15 January 21

 
Garmin Vivoki is designed to encourage employees to embrace a more active lifestyle
 
By Nathan George

Published 11 January 14

 T3 is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street New York, NY 10036