Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Update – as of 2024 there are some reports Quantum AI is a scam or unreliable, so we now recommend copytrading on MEXC. Quantum AI is currently trending in the US, UK, and Australia. The platform claims to help users sustain a higher return on investment (ROI) when trading Bitcoin and altcoins. According to its website, Quantum AI is a powerful web-based computer program for automated CFDs trading. The program is driven by Artificial Intelligence (AI) to study and glean insights from multiple markets. Some trading options mentioned are CFDs on forex, stock, market indices, commodities, and crypto through this platform. However, it’s best known for bitcoin trading. But is Quantum AI legit? We have investigated this platform thoroughly and prepared a detailed and unbiased review to help you decide.  Copytrade on MEXC
 Cryptocurrencies are unregulated. Trading with unregulated brokers will not qualify for investor protection. Quantum AI claims it helps you make money online by placing bets on forex, stock, commodities, market indices, and crypto. However, this trading system is best known for Bitcoin trading. According to its creators, it’s among the world’s most advanced auto-trading systems. Quantum AI applies Artificial Intelligence (AI) to ensure highly accurate trading. This platform is also said to run on the blockchain to ensure user safety. It uses the blockchain subset of Smart Contracts (SC) to ensure a smooth dispute resolution process.  However, we dug around the site and on the internet about these technologies and could not verify if all of Quantum AI’s claims are true. That’s why it is best to test Quantum AI with smaller amounts if you decide to invest and see if the technology is efficient with your investment. Try even withdrawing after some profits to ensure the platform’s legitimacy.  Quantum AI claims to work with over 15 UK and Australia-regulated brokers. These brokers should have global-level trust.  However, if you decide to invest with Quantum AI, we recommend that you ask about the affiliated brokers and do additional research about them to make sure they are legitimate. We can also confirm that the Quantum AI website is encrypted and safe since it uses SSL. This trading system complies with data privacy laws in most countries, including the UK. Quantum AI claims to be easy to use since it automates the entire trading process. This trading system is also hailed as the most profitable Bitcoin tool in 2024. However, we could not verify that and the claimed win rate (90%). Keep in mind that all trading involves risk. While there are some positive reviews on Quantum AI, there’s also negative feedback. On sites like TrustPilot, there are 23 reviews and a mix of positive and negative reviews. Nonetheless, the total score is very low. However, many expert review sites are writing positively about Quantum AI. The Quantum AI platform also makes specific claims which indicate legitimacy: Nonetheless, we were unable to verify if Quantum AI is entirely legitimate. Thus, we would advise starting with a minimum deposit of 250 USD/EUR/GPB. We would also advise making a small withdrawal after some profits to test if Quantum AI is reliable. Quantum AI claims to bet on Bitcoin volatility using CFDs.  The bot trades up to 60 bitcoin pairs featuring highly volatile cryptos and fiat currencies. You can trade popular pairs, such as Quantum AI Bitcoin traders have reportedly profited in the ongoing BTC/USD rally. As mentioned earlier, this tool claims to apply sophisticated trading techniques to glean insights from big data. These include short-selling to bet on plummeting prices. Quantum AI performance depends on volatility and not price appreciation. This means you can still make good profits when prices plummet. However, we could not confirm that this technology works exactly as the site describes. Quantum AI Bitcoin payouts are claimed to be instant and have no maximum withdrawal cap. Nonetheless, make a small withdrawal after earnings to test this.  As a famous billionaire, business magnate, and the founder of SpaceX, Musk is among the world’s most influential people. Many people are likely to act upon his sentiment on various subjects. For instance, the Bitcoin price gained over $1000 daily following the news in early February 2021 about Elon Musk’s Tesla buying over $1.5 billion worth of Bitcoin and accepting BTC payments. Elon Musk’s social media posts about Dogecoin (DOGE) and Shiba Inu (SHIB) have also impacted the prices of those altcoins greatly. Elon Musk’s Twitter feed – @elonmusk – still remains a crucial driver of volatility in 2024 – as a past example, in December 2021, he tweeted that Tesla will begin to accept Dogecoin as payment for some merchandise. His tweet read, ‘Tesla will make some merch buyable with Doge & see how it goes’. The price of DOGE rose 20% right after the announcement.  DOGE/BTC pair on Binance – price spike Then on January 2022, he confirmed once again on Twitter that Tesla would go ahead and accept DOGE for buying Tesla merchandise, causing another spike in the price of DOGE. In 2023 Musk took over Twitter (now X), buying the company. That again caused a rally for the DOGE price. At one point, the billionaire even changed the Twitter icon to use the DOGE logo. Heading into the tail end of the year, Twitter also acquired a crypto payments license, effectively making X a crypto exchange. The Quantum AI algorithms claim to be able to detect Elon Musk Bitcoin news and social media posts on Twitter (now rebranded to X) and other platforms and predict how they will impact volatility.  The Quantum AI bot then uses these predictions to place its bets. Quantum AI claims a win rate of up to 90% based on reacting to these market movements faster than human traders. To confirm this is all true, we would have to look at the Quantum AI source code, which we did not get a chance to do. There is no evidence that Elon Musk has ever used or invested in the Quantum AI app or any similar Quantum project. He has only tweeted about Bitcoin and some altcoins – Dogecoin and Shiba Inu. He also hasn’t mentioned any similar software programs. Quantum AI and Elon Musk himself are separate entities with no affiliation. However, Elon Musk is very interested in emerging technologies and has recently tweeted about Web 3.0 and how early investors doubted the Internet before it changed the world and the financial markets. Elon Musk may cite quantum AI in the future. Read the comments of Elon Musk and a dozen other famous investors from Wall Street, Silicon Valley, and other business areas on the crypto markets in our list of Bitcoin investors. Some of our readers have inquired about the Quantum AI Dragons Den claims. There is a viral social media post alleging that the company behind Quantum AI was pitched in the Dragons Den TV show. The post claims Peter Jones invested $1 million in this trading system.  We contacted Quantum AI, who clarified that this was fake news. Further background checks show that these posts mostly link to cloned websites. Avoid any Quantum AI Reddit post making similar claims. We say Reddit since this is the platform where these claims have been made. Other social media platforms may also be used to spread fake news.  Copytrade on MEXC
 Cryptocurrencies are unregulated. Trading with unregulated brokers will not qualify for investor protection. You can use Quantum AI from any country where retail CFDs are allowed.  However, the site notes that registration slots are limited, and you may not be able to secure a position on the first attempt. Registration involves submitting details via the provided form. You will be prompted to create a password to secure your account. Quantum AI will match you with one of its partner brokers (keep in mind to check their legitimacy). Authenticate your account with the broker by submitting the required documents. Deposit your trading capital (at least USD250) through the broker. You can wire transfer or use any of the listed debit and credit cards. Proceed to the trading resources dashboard and watch the tutorial to set up your trading account.  Download the Quantum AI mobile app by clicking the link at the bottom of the trading resources page. The app is hybrid and can therefore work on Android and iOS devices. Moreover, it doesn’t require a lot of computing resources and hence won’t compromise the performance of your smartphone. You can also use the web trader on your desktop and mobile devices. The web trader should work well on Chrome, Mozilla, Safari, and other popular browsers. The Quantum project team claims that using its AI tool is less time-consuming than attempting to analyze charts and social media activity 24/7 by yourself. Bots are emotionless and don’t make mistakes or revenge trades after a loss. They can set and adjust stop losses for you while you’re away from the keyboard. A common mistake human traders make is not to make a profit or sell too early. Often they go ‘all in’ as that’s more exciting and don’t have funds remaining to buy a dip. The Quantum AI claims its bot should be able to buy and sell in increments as the trend progresses, which is more tedious but more profitable. To safely start a Quantum AI investment, we recommend: Bot software is unregulated, so start with a minimum deposit and make a test withdrawal as soon as you’re slightly in profit. Never go ‘all in’ on one asset, whether it’s a new altcoin that seems to be making waves or one type of automated trading bot software that’s popular lately. Set aside some funds you are prepared to lose in the worst-case scenario. When depositing funds onto a new crypto broker (aka crypto exchange), begin with a small test deposit and try making a withdrawal. Check the terms and conditions, whether sites are regulated and licensed, and by which jurisdictions before deciding where to trade with Quantum AI software. Allocate other portions of your funds to other investments. That option would put part of your investment to work copy trading a professional, winning human trader, whereas another part would be following a bot program. Also, always keep a part of your portfolio as a long-term hold in Bitcoin on a regulated exchange. That way, even if the traders, bot, and altcoins you invest in fail, you have a chance to recoup losses in the long run as the valuation of Bitcoin trends up. As the best-performing financial asset of the last decades, outperforming Gold, the stock market, and commodities, you can expect a decent return on your investment (ROI) simply by holding a portion of your net worth in Bitcoin in a secure exchange wallet. At least 23% of the individual reviewers rate this Quantum AI exceptionally well. They state that it’s easy to use, profitable, and safe – however, we have not verified all Quantum AI reviews. Remember that all trading involves risk; some user testimonials may be sponsored posts. Quantum AI claims it trades CFDs on multiple assets, including forex, stock, commodities, and crypto. Quantum AI reportedly utilizes Artificial Intelligence (AI) to identify trading opportunities in multiple markets and place high-quality trades. This trading robot is said to be 0.001 seconds ahead of the markets. It can allegedly glean insights from multiple markets and place up to 15 trades per minute. Remember that Quantum AI applies high trading leverage to maximize performance. High leverage is a double-edged sword since it also magnifies losses. Treat Quantum AI as a high-risk investment and only deposit what you can afford to lose. Update – as of 2024 there are some reports Quantum AI is a scam or unreliable, so we now recommend copytrading on MEXC.  Copytrade on MEXC
 Cryptocurrencies are unregulated. Trading with unregulated brokers will not qualify for investor protection. 
						Quantum AI claims it is approved to operate through its partner brokers. This trading system is reportedly supported by over 15 brokers in the UK, South Africa, and Australia, however we were unable to verify this.                     
						You don’t need to pay anything to trade with Quantum AI. However, the free signup slots are limited. Users in Australia, the UK, and some parts of Asia are more likely to secure the free slot.                     
						Quantum AI mobile app is hybrid and can only be downloaded through a link shared via email. You will receive the download link once you complete the registration process on the assigned broker’s page.                     
						No! Quantum AI doesn’t charge any hidden fees. Surprisingly, this trading bot only deducts a 2% commission on earnings. This trading system doesn’t charge any deposit fees. You can also make up to 10 free withdrawals per month.                     Read more: Kane holds academic qualifications in the finance and financial investigation fields. With a passion for all-things finance, he currently writes for a number of publications in the online space.