Mainly sunny to start, then a few afternoon clouds. High 91F. Winds WSW at 5 to 10 mph.. Mostly clear. Low 73F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 7:57 am      Ceviche is served at MOMO at Riverfront Park in North Charleston on Dec. 23, 2022. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff NORTH CHARLESTON — Back in 2017, ​​North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey told The Post & Courier he was thrilled the city was undertaking a $1.1 million renovation of the old Quarters L building at the edge of Riverfront Park. “Right now there’s really not even a place (visitors) can get a Coca-Cola or a hot dog,” he said at the time, adding that he hoped the two-story structure might one day house a restaurant. Some four years later, Summey repeated the sentiment as he announced the city had secured a much-needed tenant for the newly-remodeled building. “Even if you’re walking through the park,” Summey observed, “there’s no place to get a Coke.” But that was about to change, for chef Justin Moore had agreed to move his restaurant MOMO from Goose Creek into the former Navy officers’ quarters. These days, park visitors can not only get a cold soda but also a local beer, a glass of wine or one of a dozen craft cocktails. They can order a hot dog, too — technically, a house-smoked sausage dog ($11) topped with avocado, pico de gallo and feta cheese in a soft top-sliced roll. CUISINE: Modern American  REPRESENTATIVE DISH: Ceviche ADDRESS: 1049 Everglades Ave., North Charleston  PHONE: 843-724-9940 BAR: Full bar  WEB: momocharleston.com  DINING ROOM HOURS: 11 a.m.-9 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday; 11 a.m.-10 p.m. Friday-Saturday; 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Sunday  PRICE: $$ COSTS: $8-$24 PARKING: Parking lot inside Riverfront Park grounds  No, MOMO Riverfront Park is not your typical park concession. It’s a full-service modern American restaurant, with all the requisite modern features. There are “handhelds,” for instance, including that smoked sausage dog along with a pair of burgers and four sandwiches. With two thick slices of buttery brioche, the bread-to-beef ratio is a tad too high on the patty melt ($14), though the gush of melted Swiss oozing between two thin-smashed patties is quite nice. The brioche works better when enclosing slices of kettle-cooked turkey breast ($12) along with cheddar and Romaine. In an echo of the cranberry sauce on a post-Thanksgiving sandwich, a slather of purple apple berry jam adds a sweet, fruity finish — a filling and comforting combo. For me, the most interesting things at MOMO are found on the left side of the menu, where a small raw bar selection — oysters on the half-shell, ceviche, chilled shrimp — joins an assortment of small plate “firsts.” A quintet of deviled eggs ($8) are piped full of pale yellow filling fortified with white cheddar pimento cheese. Those same deviled eggs, blended smooth, serve as the sauce on a pair of oyster sliders ($11). Against that creamy base and the soft slider rolls, the fried oysters’ crunchy cornmeal batter really pops. The ceviche ($16) is quite good, too, with slices of pickled cucumber and red onions adding crisp accents to the firm white fish and the bright citrus of its leche de tigre marinade. House-fried tortilla chips are piled right on top, and once you offload them to side plates (which you really should, lest the liquid reduce the bottom of the pile into cornmeal mush) you realize there’s an awful lot of ceviche in that bowl. Deviled eggs are served at MOMO at Riverfront Park in North Charleston on Dec. 23, 2022. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff There’s plenty of heft to the baseball-sized scoop of smoked whitefish pâté ($11), too. With a soft base of lemon-accented mascarpone, it’s more creamy dip than traditional pâté. A dozen Ritz crackers are served alongside for dipping, and while colorful furikake seasoning dusts the cool white scoop, the smoky flavor of the fish is what really shines through. Your dining companions may well pause midway through the firsts and debate whether to keep nibbling away or save room for the upcoming main course. That’s a good moment to take a look around and note the unique setting.            MOMO offers waterfront dining at Riverfront Park housed on North Charleston’s old Navy base in the Quarters L building, which once housed Navy officers.            Built in 1937, Quarters L was one of four “Panama Houses” that served as residences for Navy officers and their families. (So-called because their design was based on Army Quartermaster plans created for the Panama Canal Zone.) It’s a striking building, square in shape and two stories tall, with white-painted German siding beneath a low-pitched hipped roof. Story continues below The second floor has an distinctive T-shaped living area, with a long, narrow room stretching the full length of the rear wall and tall casement windows overlooking the Cooper River. The stem of the 'T' is a wide hallway extending into the interior of the building with doors opening into what originally were bedrooms. That 'T' is now MOMO’s upstairs dining room, and if you snag a stool at the long counter along the windows you can look out through a live oak canopy at the greenish-gray river beyond. There are more river views downstairs, where the original screen porch — now enclosed — serves as MOMO’s bar and main dining room. Two wide openings that were once exterior windows now function as a chef’s table of sorts, with high leather-backed stools at a counter looking into the open kitchen. When the weather’s warm, guests can eat even closer to the water on a brick-paved patio with tables shaded by broad umbrellas. Patrons sit at the bar area at MOMO at Riverfront Park in North Charleston on Dec. 23, 2022. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff With an ample wine and cocktail list and appetizers sized for sharing, a party could easily sip and graze their way through a casual afternoon. A few larger plates, however, offer options for an even more substantial meal. The shrimp and grits ($23) might better be termed shrimp, pork and grits, for the mound of creamy, coarse-ground yellow grits are buried beneath a layer of pulled pork and a flood of reddish-brown smoked tomato gravy. Somewhere amid all that (and beneath a generous white scoop of cool crème fraîche) lurk a half-dozen or so sautéed shrimp. By the time you stir everything together, it’s more a pork, shrimp and hominy stew than a bowl of shrimp and grits, but it’s still hearty, smoky and very flavorful. The cacio e pepe ($18) is simpler but equally hefty, with strands of thick bucatini enrobed in a smooth, buttery sauce that prickles with black pepper. One could add confit chicken to the bowl if desired ($6 upcharge), but I have no idea how one would walk to the car afterward. On my last visit to MOMO, I found myself contemplating the just-finished meal while gazing out across the park as families pushed strollers and walked dogs along the curving sidewalks. It wasn’t fine dining, really. I would peg it more as modern American comfort food, but with a few unexpected wrinkles. A few seem questionable (mushrooms and shredded lettuce on a patty melt?), but others are quite compelling. A sprinkle of togarishi, for instance, adds a kick of red pepper and sesame to the ceviche. The pale yellow Nothing Else Compears cocktail ($13) — a prickly blend of pear vodka with spiced honey and prosecco — is garnished with a bright orange chunk of Negroni-soaked pear, and its herbally bitter bite is quite pleasant. Smoked chicken thighs are served at MOMO at Riverfront Park in North Charleston on Dec. 23, 2022. Grace Beahm Alford/Staff Most of the flavors, though, are right down the middle, if perhaps a bit repetitive. The fragrant dill fronds and minced chives that garnish the ceviche top the whitefish pâté and the shrimp and grits, too. Pickled red onions finish not just the ceviche but also the oyster sliders, the pâté, the Brussels sprouts ($10), a baby wedge salad ($14) and the pimento and pickle plate ($10). But they’re tasty pickled onions, brightly tart and with a hint of sweetness, too. Does it merit a special trip out to North Charleston and wending one’s way through the industrial maze of the old Navy base just to sample the food? Perhaps not. But if you’re already heading to Riverfront Park, it’s absolutely worth stopping in for a good cocktail and a hearty bite with a rare waterfront view. The city of North Charleston upped the ante in November, when it opened the new $8 million pedestrian bridge over Noisette Creek — an important next step in converting the once-abandoned base into a community asset and a draw for visitors. With that distinctive double-arched bridge at the north end of the park and MOMO anchoring the south, that transformation seems well on its way. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 North Charleston's newest restaurant is serving chicken, chicken and more chicken in Park Circle.  Read moreNew Charleston-area chicken restaurant opens near Holy City Brewing The owners of Chasing Sage, a popular downtown restaurant formed in the midst of COVID-19, have announced they will close its doors in the coming months. The owners are gutted about their decision.  Read morePopular downtown Charleston restaurant formed in the midst of COVID-19 is closing A Midlands hotspot dedicated to serving chicken and waffles is making way to North Charleston. Read moreA Columbia-based chicken and waffles restaurant is coming to North Charleston Encouraging patrons to dress in "gothic academia" clothing and offering up theatrical readings of some of the horror genre's vintage favorites, this traveling show blends classic Gothic literature and mixology for an enthralling evening. Read moreGothic Authors Cocktail Club mixes horror stories, craft cocktails in Charleston The Post and Courier
148 Williman Street
Charleston, SC 29403 Phone: 843-577-7111 News tips/online questions: newstips@postandcourier.com Delivery/subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale