   It’s Important that kids learn to embrace the spirit of experimentation: Alok Kumar By Farooq Shah SRINAGAR- At least 11 students from various government and private schools from all the 10 districts of the Kashmir Division were chosen for the national level INSPIRE awards exhibition for the academic year 2021–2022. The event, described as the State Level Exhibition and Project Competition (SLEPC), was held on Monday at the State Council of Educational Research and Training auditorium (SCERT) here at Bemina. The students, who are in the in the age group of 10-15 years, competed in a district-wise exhibition and project competition conducted by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) in conjunction with the National Innovation Foundation-India (NIF).  Giving details of the exhibition, Senior Academic Officer, SCERT, Dr Sajad Ahmad, who is the nodal officer of the INSPIRE-NIF, said total of 95 students showcased their original ideas/innovations which were scrutinized by a jury of four experts. Head of the Physics Department, Central University Kashmir, Dr Khalid Sultan, Senior Scientist, Quality Control Laboratory, Dr. Malik Sajad, Senior Assistant Professor and Head of the Physics Department, Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST), Dr Farooq Hussain Bhat and Senior Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, Sri Pratap College, Ms Ruheema Tabasum acted as judges for the event. “Sidrat-ul-Muntaha, Adil Rashid Baba, Adfar Jan, Aksa Manzoor, Faisal Ahmad Kumar, Faisal Ahmad Dar, Sajaf Thoker, Talib Hussain Bhat, Rashid Ahmad Wagay and Saniya Saleema,” the judges announced the names of the winning students. The selected students, Dr Sajad said, would further be mentored by a team of experts from NIT and other institutions to have their ideas/innovations improved upon. “The NIF will provide mentoring support to students for prototype development in collaboration with reputable academic and technological institutions in the country,” he said. Alok Kumar (IRS), Special Secretary to the Government, Department of School Education, expressed his utmost happiness at the students’ selection for the national exhibition and offered his congratulations. “It’s important that our kids learn to embrace the spirit of experimentation and enjoy science,” Kumar said. “Our goal is to draw more students now and in the future.” Director School Education, Dr. Tasaduq Hussain, who attended the valedictory ceremony, said it was time to provide the children a suitable platform to display their talents.  The scheme, Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE), is one of the flagship programs of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India that aims to motivate students in the age group of 10-15 years and studying in classes 6 to 10. According to the Inspire website, the program’s goal is to target one million unique discoveries or ideas with scientific roots and societal applications in order to promote a climate of creativity and original thought among schoolchildren. Under this scheme, schools—both government and private— can nominate 5 best original ideas/innovations of students through the official INSPIRE website. 
 The media in Kashmir, comprising a robust English and vernacular press has a particularly unenviable job to do. The problems faced by it are both universal to the conflict situations and unique to the region.  Read More For Advertising on various Kashmir Observer platformscontact [email protected] +91-194-2502327; +91-1947969705  © 1997 -2023 | KASHMIR OBSERVER LLP  © 1997 -2023 | KASHMIR OBSERVER LLP