"How are you feeling today? Is there anything I can do?" On Monday, community worker Zheng Yue from Hongyu community in Linpan subdistrict, Linyi county, Shandong province, dialed the phone numbers of elderly households in the neighborhood one by one, as usual. "Chatting with them, checking their physical condition and keeping them company to alleviate their boredom," said Zheng. Linyi county has carefully selected and cultivated 300 community workers to serve the community, making it a reliable and comforting harbor for residents. To enhance the capabilities of community workers, inspire them to become the "fresh blood" in urban community governance and fulfill their role as the people's backbone, a three-day training session for urban community workers was held from Feb 14-16. Furthermore, from Feb 19-22, urban community leaders visited 16 urban communities and residential areas in four regions including Yantai, Weifang, Zibo and Dezhou for a four-day study tour. Through listening, observing and asking questions they thoroughly and meticulously learned about typical experiences and practices in the communities' grid management, smart community construction, red property management and community Party building branding. On Tuesday, Hongyu community organized the community workers to carry out their monthly convenience service activity. With activities close to residents' lives as a starting point, focusing on the actual needs of residents in the area, the campaign included services such as sharpening knives and scissors, haircuts, ironing and modification of clothes, blood pressure and blood sugar measurement, car washing, and recycling of books and old clothes. Local residents enjoyed the "volunteer package at their doorstep," which facilitated their daily lives and delivered warmth from the Party and the government to their hearts, leaving a lasting impression. Adhering to the concept of "helping others and helping themselves," community workers link up thousands of threads of grassroots work and build bridges of connections; provide assistance and solutions to residents' difficulties; and contribute their dedication and passion to the construction of a community with shared responsibilities, shared obligations, and shared benefits. Based on residents' needs, Linyi will organize more convenience services conducted by community workers, promote the "five-community linkage"; integrate resources from all parties; and construct a new pattern of shared construction, governance, and sharing, allowing residents to have a greater sense of gain and happiness. Jiang Rui contributed to this story. 
            Copyright 1995 -  . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form.
          