Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Stephen M. Dowell/Orlando Sentinel A firetruck is draped in purple at the Loomis Funeral Home in Apopka on Saturday, July 23, 2022, during a service for firefighter Austin Duran. Duran, an Apopka firefighter, tragically died after sustaining serious injuries to his spine at work. Duran had been hospitalized since June 30 when a heavy trailer of sand fell on him that morning. A private family viewing was held Saturday at 9 a.m. and an Apopka Fire Department personnel viewing was scheduled the following hour. Following that, Duran's body, in a flag-draped casket, was carried atop a firetruck from the funeral home to Journey Christian Church on South Orange Blossom Trail where a private family funeral was held. (Stephen M. Dowell/Orlando Sentinel)  Austin Duran, an Apopka firefighter, has died after being severely injury at work (Photo via Apopka Fire Department). A firetruck is draped in purple at the Loomis Funeral Home in Apopka on Saturday, July 23, 2022, during a service for firefighter Austin Duran. Duran, an Apopka firefighter, tragically died after sustaining serious injuries to his spine at work. Duran had been hospitalized since June 30 when a heavy trailer of sand fell on him that morning. A private family viewing was held Saturday at 9 a.m. and an Apopka Fire Department personnel viewing was scheduled the following hour. Following that, Duran's body, in a flag-draped casket, was carried atop a firetruck from the funeral home to Journey Christian Church on South Orange Blossom Trail where a private family funeral was held. (Stephen M. Dowell/Orlando Sentinel) Watching the Apopka City Council in session last week, one thing was immediately clear: The memory of firefighter Austin Duran —who died July 15 from injuries sustained in a tragic, preventable accident — won’t fade for a long time, if ever. Grief over the loss of a 25-year-old who many regarded as exceptional was etched […] Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel