Using nothing but your own bodyweight (no, not even a pull-up bar) you can perform this brutal 650-rep workout anywhere CrossFit Hero WODs are special workouts designed for and dedicated to the men and women who have given their lives in the line of duty. To show respect, they’re often tougher, heavier and/or longer than your standard CrossFit WOD (workout of the day), giving you pause for thought and reflection, as well as the motivation to work harder. ‘Zachary Tellier’ — a workout named for the US combat infantryman who tragically lost his life in Afghanistan in 2007 — is a rarity among the Hero WOD’s, in that it requires nothing but your own bodyweight and still manages to deliver a seriously brutal full-body workout. Tellier hits your chest, legs and abs while firing up your heart rate, scorching your lungs and testing your fitness. A combination of five movements, the workout progresses in a similar style to the ‘12 Days of Christmas’ song that we all know and ‘love’, repeating itself while adding a new movement to each round. You’ll begin with 10 burpees, followed immediately by another 10 burpees and 25 press-ups. Next, repeat the burpees and press-ups, but add 50 lunges into the mix. Then, hit 10 burpees, 25 press-ups and 50 lunges, before tagging on 100 sit-ups. Finally, perform one more round featuring of all of the above, finishing with 150 air squats. In total you’ll perform 650 reps, so this one isn’t going to be over quickly. You may not be able to perform some of the movements in one unbroken hit, but that’s fine, rest as necessary to keep your form sharp. Try and keep moving as best you can — a sip of your drink and a few deep breaths should be all you need before you get back to action. Squat down and place both hands on the floor between your feet. Jump your feet back into the top of a press-up and lower your chest to the ground (A). Straighten your arms and hop your feet forwards, before jumping into the air and raising your hands above your head (B). Repeat. Drop into a  plank position, with your core tight and hands stacked below your shoulders (A). Bend your elbows to bring your chest to the floor (B). Keep your elbows close to your body as you push back up explosively. Stand tall after your final press-up (A). Keeping your chest up, take a step forward with one leg, bending at the knee until your back knee touches the ground (B). Stand-up explosively, pause and repeat with the other leg. Each leg equals one rep. Be careful not to slouch – keeping a strong upper body as just as important as what’s going on below the waist here. After your final lunge, hit the deck again ready for some core crushing reps. With your legs bent and your soles together, lie with your hands behind your head (A). Tense your abs as you lift up, and touch your hands to your feet (B). Reverse the move, touching the floor behind your head on each rep. Listen to your breath and find a rhythm here. You can do more of these than your mind would have you believe. Standing tall (A), keep your chest up and sink your hips back, before bending your knees to drop your thighs until they are below parallel to the floor (B). Keep your head up throughout as you drive back up to standing and repeat. With almost 18 years in the health and fitness space as a personal trainer, nutritionist, breath coach and writer, Andrew has spent nearly half of his life exploring how to help people improve their bodies and minds.      As our fitness editor he prides himself on keeping Men’s Health at the forefront of reliable, relatable and credible fitness information, whether that’s through writing and testing thousands of workouts each year, taking deep dives into the science behind muscle building and fat loss or exploring the psychology of performance and recovery.     Whilst constantly updating his knowledge base with seminars and courses, Andrew is a lover of the practical as much as the theory and regularly puts his training to the test tackling everything from Crossfit and strongman competitions, to ultra marathons, to multiple 24 hour workout stints and (extremely unofficial) world record attempts.      You can find Andrew on Instagram at @theandrew.tracey, or simply hold up a sign for ‘free pizza’ and wait for him to appear. The Viral World's Toughest Mile Challenge Try This Dumbbell EMOM Plan For Size and Fitness Hybrid Bodyweight and Running Partner Workout This One-Move Workout Builds Boulder Shoulders What is The Crossfit Hero Workout 'Chad'? Landmine Finisher Beefs Up Your Back and Shoulders 4-Week Specialisation Workout Plan For Bigger Arms Build Muscle With Three Day Dumbbell Plan ‘Dumbbell Hell’ Ladder Builds Total Body Strength  Grow Your Shoulders and Back with This Finisher Build Huge Legs With Our Squat and Deadlift Ladder Build Muscle With Three Day Dumbbell Plan Men's Health, Part of the Hearst UK Wellbeing Network We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England 112955. All rights reserved.