 Huge flames have been spotted in the city of Sevastopol in Russian-held Crimea after a suspected drone strike caused a fuel tank to catch fire in the port city. The Kremlin-appointed governor of Sevastopol, Mikhail Razvozhaev, believes that a Ukrainian attack caused the fuel depot to go up in flames. The Ukrainian military has not yet issued a response to the incident on Saturday when a fuel tank caught fire in Sevastopol. Governor Razvozhaev confirmed that no injuries were reported during the fire, which is currently being managed by local firefighters and emergency services. He added that due to the significant volume of fuel involved, it may take some time to fully contain the blaze. Razvozhaev said: "The situation is under the control of our firefighters and all operative services. Since the volume of fuel is large, it will take time to localise the fire." READ MORE: US forces Kyiv to U-turn on plans to attack Moscow to stop escalation ⚡️More footage of the fire at the oil depot in temporarily occupied #Sevastopol, #Crimea. pic.twitter.com/CNd6Ak6zaj Sevastopol, Russia's principal naval station on the Black Sea, has been the subject of multiple attempted attacks, including the most recent. While Ukrainian officials have not directly claimed responsibility for these attacks, they have stated that they have the right to strike any target in response to Russian aggression. The previous day, a volley of Russian missiles struck Ukrainian civilian areas, killing 25, causing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to call on his allies to give his soldiers superior air defences.    Don't miss...     British artist granted rare access to secret Ukrainian factory  [EXCLUSIVE]     'China is a clear and present danger to the Britain and the West'  [INSIGHT]     Irish volunteer dies fighting Putin’s army in eastern Ukraine  [LATEST]  In a video message, Zelensky outlined the security measures needed to protect Ukrainian cities and villages, both in the hinterland and on the front lines, including air defence, a modern air force, artillery, and armoured vehicles. President Zelenskyy also condemned the Friday attack in Uman, which claimed the lives of 23 people, including four children. According to officials, the missile assault demolished one block of flats and damaged 10 other residential buildings in Uman's Cherkasy area, injuring 18 people, nine of whom were hospitalised.   Ukrainian army chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi announced on Friday that 23 missiles were fired towards Ukraine during the night, 21 of which were shot down, as well as two drones. There were also reports of shelling in the Russian-controlled eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk, which killed seven people and injured 19. Kyiv's air defences also shot down 11 cruise missiles. A woman and her two-year-old daughter were killed by Russian bombardment in the Dnipropetrovsk region at night. Weapons and sanctions, according to Zelensky, can deter Russian assault. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?