Published By:  Namit Singh Sengar Trending Desk Last Updated: September 26, 2023, 07:00 IST New Delhi, India After the small momo stall achieved success, Sagar and Binod adopted the franchise model. (Representative image) Who could have ever thought that by just selling momos, one could make as much as Rs 6 lakhs every day? Meet Sagar Daryani, a Kolkata-based businessman who transformed a simple momo stall into a whopping business. The company’s annual turnover is Rs. 2,130 crore. Sagar Daryani along with his co-founder Binod Kumar embarked on this grand journey from a humble beginning. Sagar Daryani and Binod Kumar started the Momo business in 2008. At the initial stage, their path was filled with challenges. Sagar’s parents envisioned a different future for him, asking him to pursue further education and build a conventional career. While completing his studies at St. Xavier’s College, Sagar’s decision to venture into selling momos wasn’t met with immediate acceptance from his parents. Nevertheless, he persisted and transformed his modest idea into a thriving reality. Sagar during late-night study sessions with Binod often ordered fast food like pizzas and burgers from nearby eatery joints. It was during this time that they realised the untapped potential in the momos sector. With a modest savings of Rs. 30,000, the duo took the big step of launching their first momo shop in 2008. With just one table and two chefs, they boarded on their entrepreneurial journey and rest is history. The initial two years were filled with challenges and struggles due to fund crunch. For marketing and advertising, Sagar used to wear Wow Momo t-shirts, turning himself into a walking advertisement. Going the extra mile, he started innovating with momo recipes to further expand his customer base. After the small momo stall achieved success, Sagar and Binod adopted the franchise model, opening numerous additional stores. With a total valuation of Rs 2,130 crore, their journey is nothing but an inspiration for the budding entrepreneurs. In the year 2023 alone, their company’s revenue grew from Rs 222 crore to an impressive Rs. 400 crore. At present, their business empire encompasses around 800 points of sale.