Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     A new World of Warcraft Classic trailer has teased the upcoming content phase and the highly anticipated Ulduar raid from the Wrath of the Lich King expansion. The new raid will launch on January 19th.
      RELATED: Activision-Blizzard To Suspend World Of Warcraft And Other Games In China From Next Week
                     World of Warcraft Classic: Wrath of the Lich King is once again preparing to invite players to one of the most memorable raids of the MMORPG's history, Ulduar. The new raid takes players into a massive facility constructed into a mountain, which is also home to some of the most notorious bosses of the Wrath of the Lich King expansion. As seen in the trailer made by Hurricane, Ulduar imprisons Yogg-Saron, "one of the four Old Gods of Azeroth."
                         While the World of Warcraft veterans will likely remember the familiar faces in the raid, it is worth noting that the new instance has a total of 14 bosses, including Hodir, General Vezax, Algalon the Observer, The Assembly of Iron, and more. And those who are going to "unearth the secrets of Ulduar" for the first time in World of Warcraft Classic, will have to take the ship from the Alliance or from the Horde capital to Borean Tundra. After reaching Northrend, they will need to fly with their loyal mounts to the Storm Peaks, from where they can enter Ulduar.
                         In addition to the new raid, "Wrath Classic" also introduces a new Emblem type, the Emblem of Conquest. Players can claim the new Emblem after defeating any boss in Ulduar or by completing daily quests of Proof of Demise Heroic Dungeon. On top of that, the new content phase also welcomes the Argent Tournament and brings Season 6 to the Arena. Keen arena players can now dive into the new season of the Arena to get their hands on the Furious Gladiator title in addition to the Furious Gladiator's Frost Wyrm mount.
                         The Ulduar raid serves as the second phase of Wrath of the Lich King. After the raid goes live on January 19, the expansion will welcome two new raids, Onyxia's Lair and Trial of the Crusader. While there is no definitive release date for the third phase, the new content should arrive sometime in February.
                         After the new raids, the beloved Icecrown Citadel raid will open up to call players to confront Lich King and conclude the saga in the heart of the king's stronghold. Until the final raid of the expansion though, the members of the Alliance and the Horde will have enough time to face Yogg-Saron in the depths of Ulduar.
      NEXT: World Of Warcraft Dragonflight Expansion Reveals Roadmap For 2023
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  Despite no official announcement, this recent tweet by Geoff Keighley might hint at new Dying Light content. If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. Fans show enormous interest in the upcoming Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket. The cost of bringing Fortnite back to iOS and Android...