Mumbai: Customers can now order their favourite momos all within the WhatsApp chat. WOW! Momo introduced a seamless food ordering experience via a WhatsApp chatbot for its customers in New Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Kolkata. Developed on the WhatsApp business platform by Gupshup.io, the chatbot enables a quick and seamless ordering experience for customers. Send a ‘Hi’ on https://wa.me/+919836198361 to browse through the menu, place and track orders in real-time and get customer support on the go. You can also scan the QR code to place your order. To avail these services, all customers have to share their current location and the chatbot will allow them to place the order from their nearest Wow! Momo outlet. WhatsApp India director, business messaging Ravi Garg said, “Our partnership with Wow! Momo will make India’s favourite snack available to customers anytime and anywhere, right at their fingertips via WhatsApp. We are excited to see how technology is playing a unique role in empowering the food and beverage industry to enhance customer journeys and experiences.” Commenting on the partnership, Wow! Momo co-founder & CMO Muralikrishnan said, “At Wow! Momo, customer relevance has always been right at the centre of our efforts and innovation. We have been conscious of curating unique food experiences for our customers. Our strong customer retention and formidable repeat base is a testimony to the brand pull we enjoy; the idea is to capitalise on this pull, with the collaborative effort of WhatsApp. Give these consumers an alternative channel apart from our outlets to enjoy a personalised, quick and a wow experience. Our guests can now browse through a wide menu and order their favourite momos using the WhatsApp chatbot.” "Consumers spend a lot of time on messaging apps and expect connecting with businesses to be as quick and easy as chatting with a friend. We're excited to enable Wow! Momo delivers a wow customer experience along with its delicious food. This includes end-to-end food discovery, ordering and support, within WhatsApp, automated 24/7, developed using Gupshup.io's Conversational Engagement Platform," said Gupshup.io co-founder and CEO Beerud Sheth. switch switch   Subscribe To Our Newsletter    2023 @ Copyright Indiantelevision Dot Com Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved.