Bow Wow has accused Diddy of breaking a "code of conduct" by hooking up with the mother of his child, Joie Chavis, in 2021. Bow Wow, who has been signed to Diddy's Bad Boy Records since 2015, and Chavis dated between 2010 and 2013 and share a daughter, Shai. Diddy was spotted kissing Chavis, who also shares a child with rapper Future, during a boat trip in Italy in 2021. During an appearance on "The Baller Alert Show" last week, Bow Wow addressed the incident.  "She knew better," he said of Chavis. "It's more of a man thing. Me and her, we had our discussion about it, trust me." "There's a conduct and code men go by and everyone knows certain things are off limits," he added. "Wives and baby mamas is just some shit that, you know, you steer clear from." A post shared by The Baller Alert Show (@theballeralertshow)   While Bow Wow wasn't happy that Chavis and Diddy kissed, the 36-year-old rapper said that it's now water under the bridge. "Me and dude, we definitely had our rap, but I'll keep that between us," he said of Diddy. "We had our pow wow, you feel me, and we handled it the way we was supposed to handle it." On Chavis, who is now dating NFL star Trevon Diggs, Bow Wow said he felt "blessed" to have such a "wonderful" baby mother.  "We are at a point in our life where we homies for real," he said. "I don't even know the last time we had an argument. We a team." 
                                Related stories
                               A post shared by Joy. (@joiechavis) Representatives for neither Diddy nor Chavis immediately responded to requests for comment. In other Diddy news, the music mogul recently tricked Twitter into believing that he has to pay Sting $5,000 per day for sampling The Police's song "Every Breath You Take," which Sting wrote. Diddy sampled the song on his 1997 tribute to The Notorious B.I.G. with Faith Evans, "I'll Be Missing You." In a 2018 interview with The Breakfast Club, Sting confirmed Diddy did not seek his permission to sample his song and as such has to pay him $2,000 per day for the "rest of his life." Last week, Diddy shared footage of the interview on his Twitter but corrected Sting's figure, writing: "Nope. 5K a day." The 53-year-old star later revealed he was only joking. "It's called being Facetious! Me and @OfficialSting have been friends for a long time!" he wrote. "He never charged me $3K or $5K a day for Missing You. He probably makes more than $5K a day from one of the biggest songs in history." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to