Arkansas Times 
					Arkansas news, politics, opinion, restaurants, music, movies and art				 Black and white scratchboard drawings by Perrion Hurd and vibrant, hyper-saturated with color paintings by Kennith Humphrey create an excellent juxtaposition at Hearne Fine Art, 1001 Wright Ave. Hurd, a Little Rock artist whose style he calls “Afro-Futurism,” shows here small-scale portraiture of Black men surrounded by geometrical symbols born of African art but guided by Hurd’s hand. Scratchboard drawings are impossibly difficult; they allow for no error. The secret to doing them, he said at the Six Bridges Book Festival’s recent reception at Hearne, is “patience.” In the show, “New Forms,” Hurd manages to create all tones, from black to barely gray, with his deft hand. (If the drawings recall the banners hanging from the Mosaic Templars Cultural Center, it’s because Hurd created those as well.) The portraits, images of dignity and power, are given such titles as “Still Standing”; “Looking Forward”; “Discipline”; and “Stay Ready.”  Vicksburg artist Humphrey died this year; the exhibition of his work is called “Remembrance.” At Hearne, Humphrey’s work features a Southern take on Black life with such works as “Sundays at Emma’s” and “Rock of Ages Mourner’s Bench.” Humphrey’s people are elongated and pensive; in an interview with The Vicksburg Gazette, he described his work as “an escape from realism, an interpretation of a moment. I don’t call it a certain style. It’s free-flowing, being myself. It’s my quick interpretation, like the click of the camera with brush and paint. I want to paint how people are at that moment.” Humphrey’s color sense is superb, especially here in “Sundays at Emma’s,” a scene of people walking through luscious deep yellows and pinks and pale blues to a couple of dogtrot houses. Behind the houses are dark green silhouetted trees, a bright sun shining behind them. This is a painting you can look at for a long time, absorbed by the colors and brushstrokes and rhythm of the people headed to Emma’s.  Humphrey’s show goes down Nov. 1; Hurd’s ends Nov. 15. The gallery is open Monday through Saturday. For 50 years, Arkansas Times has been a cornerstone of progressive journalism in Little Rock. Yet, as we celebrate this milestone, we recognize a crucial voice missing from our newsroom—that of the Black community, which constitutes half of our city's population. We are committed to diversifying our newsroom. This isn't just about adding another staff member; it's about ensuring our journalism reflects the diverse voices of Little Rock. Your support will help us achieve this goal. Donate today to help us raise $50,000 and make our newsroom truly representative. 
							Leslie Newell Peacock has worked for the Arkansas Times since its switch from a monthly magazine to a weekly in 1992. She previously worked for the Arkansas Gazette. She can be reached by email: lesliepeacock@arktimes.com															
								More by Leslie Newell Peacock								
 Get top news stories, highlights of local entertainment and breaking news in your inbox. Founded 1974, the Arkansas Times is a lively, opinionated source for news, politics & culture in Arkansas. Our monthly magazine is free at over 500 locations in Central Arkansas. 
		Already have an account?		Sign In.
	 $10 per month $120 per year 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																Privacy Policy																	
 
													You must be logged in to post a comment.												