In the latest in our series highlighting great creative campaigns on Facebook and Instagram, we take a look at 360 degree ads for retailer John Lewis John Lewis became the first UK retailer to trial 360-degree video adverts on Facebook in September as part of its ‘Only Here’ Autumn campaign. Ads were shot by agency Punch Communications at a house in South London. Facebook users can move their fingers or drag their mouse to look around an open plan kitchen/diner and view products that are exclusive to John Lewis. They can also click through to the John Lewis website to order or find out more about an item. Punch used multiple cameras to create the panoramic footage. The video showcases dining chairs, sofas and a dresser as well as accessories and lighting. Eva Bojtos, Senior Manager for Social Marketing at John Lewis, says the brand was keen to test the 360 format as demand for more immersive content continues to grow.   Exclusive to John Lewis, explore our Croft Collection at every angle. Turn your device or drag your finger to move around within the video. Posted by John Lewis on Montag, 25. September 2017 The ads are designed to offer customers a more seamless shopping experience as users can go from being inspired by an item to viewing it on the brand’s website in a single click. “This trial forms part of our strategy to offer our customers more inspiring experiences both in shops and online,” says Bojtos. “Facebook is an important platform to reach customers and research has found that 51% of shoppers say they’re excited that VR will play a part of their shopping experiences in the future,” she adds. The campaign allows John Lewis to trial 360 ads before the festive season ensues. Speaking to CR’s sister title Marketing Week, Bojtos says there was potential for the brand to use the format during other seasons, adding that it could “work in any environment from fashion to home”. Several brands have experimented with Facebook’s 360 format since it launched in 2015 – from Absolut to Mastercard and the Dali Museum – but it remains new territory for retailers. The campaign shows how the format can be used to create an engaging shopping experience that works seamlessly on a mobile and it’s likely we’ll see more of its kind from other retailers in the future.   Great Work is part of Inspire, a year-long partnership between Creative Review, Facebook and Instagram to showcase outstanding creative work across both platforms.  Facebook and Instagram’s Creative Hub was launched this year to help the creative communities understand mobile marketing. The online tool allows creatives to experiment with content formats – from Instagram video to Facebook Canvas – and produce mock-ups to share with clients and stakeholders. It also showcases successful campaigns created for mobile. Try out the mock up tool at facebook.com/ads/creativehub and see the inspiration gallery at facebook.com/ads/creativehub/gallery We speak to the founder, investor, author, speaker and internet personality about creative entrepreneurship, the underrated power of optimism, and why his agency will never – ever – go public We speak to Duolingo’s global head of social media Katherine Chan about managing the team behind its lauded social strategy and how people’s perceptions of brands are shifting in the era of individual clout We talk to co-founder Fernando Musa about how the network is evolving with age, plus how he balances his unusual dual roles as chairman at David and CEO at Ogilvy Brazil The Ice Cream Project by Anya Hindmarch is back for a third year. Here CR speaks to the founder about reworking the familiar into something extraordinary and how she’s utilised the rich history of food brands 
 The mixed media ad by AMV BBDO illustrates how a lack of knowledge about periods can be a lifelong issue CR speaks to Teemu Suviala, global chief creative officer at Landor, about how Harris is cutting through the political noise, and what lessons brands can take from her bold approach  TBWA\MCR has created simple yet potent posters that expose hostile architectural design features in our towns and cities We might reassure ourselves that there are for worse industries for the planet than advertising, but that’s before you break down all the steps involved. Maybe it’s time to do things differently? We speak to By The Network about how its global collective of independent agencies are taking on the scale of the big network model by prioritising creativity above all else As the creative industry wrestles with the pros and cons of hybrid working, new office models are emerging to cater for a range of needs Gary Hustwit’s new documentary film about the prolific producer, artist and thinker is programmed to generate alternative versions each time it’s shown. The director explains why this approach is the only reason Eno agreed to take part, and the possibilities of this technology for filmmakers Principal’s Bryan-K Lamonde discusses the art of designing ‘less’ and how he’s implemented that approach across the studio’s projects As the East ploughs billions into everything from golf tours to football leagues, we examine how brands in the West are grappling with a global sports industry in flux Dive into our showcase of the best advertising, design, craft and effectiveness of the past year Copyright © 2024 Centaur Media plc and / or its subsidiaries and licensors. All rights reserved. Built by Standfirst Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND