Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Rose Leadem
          

            Mar 10, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   The Oscars are nearly here. On Sunday, March 12, the famous awards show will reveal the top films of the season. Hosted by Jimmy Kimmel, the 2023 Academy Awards ceremony will honor and recognize some of today's most successful, impactful, and talented people in film and entertainment. See the complete list of nominations here. Related: Viral Sensation 'Popcorn Guy' Has Earned a Gig at the 2023 Oscars To get ready for this year's award show, we've taken a look back at some of the greatest, most inspirational quotes from Oscar-winning movies of the past. From Lawrence of Arabia to Titanic and Moonlight, here are 17 of the most inspirational quotes from Oscar-winning movies. "Never be in a hurry. You'll miss the best parts in life." -- Marlene Dietrich in Around the World in Eighty Days, 1956   "Big things have small beginnings, sir." "If you can't appreciate what you've got, you better get what you appreciate." -- Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady, 1964 Related: 50 Inspirational Quotes to Help You Achieve Your Goals "When the Lord closes a door, somewhere he opens a window." -- Mother Abbess in The Sound of Music, 1965   "Ah come on, Adrian, it's true. I was nobody. But that don't matter either, you know? 'Cause I was thinkin', it really don't matter if I lose this fight. It really don't matter if this guy opens my head, either. 'Cause all I wanna do is go the distance. Nobody's ever gone the distance with Creed, and if I can go that distance, you see, and that bell rings and I'm still standin', I'm gonna know for the first time in my life, see, that I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood." "Whenever I despair, I remember that the way of truth and love has always won. There may be tyrants and murderers, and for a time, they may seem invincible, but in the end, they always fail. Think of it: always." "If you cannot say what you mean, your majesty, you will never mean what you say. And a gentleman should always mean what he says." -- Reginald Fleming 'R.J.' Johnston in The Last Emperor, 1987 "I figure life's a gift and I don't intend on wasting it. You don't know what hand you're gonna get dealt next. You learn to take life as it comes at you... To make each day count." "What we do in life, echoes in eternity." "Perhaps it is good to have a beautiful mind. But an even greater gift is to discover a beautiful heart." -- John Nash in A Beautiful Mind, 2001 Related: 50 Inspirational Entrepreneurial Quotes "You can like the life you're living. You can live the life you like." "It's the magic of risking everything for a dream that nobody sees but you." "I don't want to be a product of my environment. I want my environment to be a product of me." "For the sake of all that we ourselves hold dear, and of the world's order and peace, it is unthinkable that we should refuse to meet the challenge. It is to this high purpose that I now call my people at home and my peoples across the seas, who will make our cause their own. I ask them to stand calm and firm, and united in this time of trial." -- King George VI in The King's Speech, 2010 "Out with the old, in with the new! That's life!" -- Peppy Miller in The Artist, 2011 Related: 20 Celebrities Who Started Alcohol Companies "This is my career, this is my chance to do some work that actually means something." "At some point you've got to decide who wanna be. Can't let nobody make that decision for you." 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          On her journey to disrupt the beauty industry with her brand OUI the People, here are three lessons founder Karen Young shares.
         
          Lauren Chew, founder and CEO of Love+Chew, set out to "change our broken food system" with her first entrepreneurial venture.
         
          The two talked on a livestream on X on Monday night.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Musk endorsed Trump in July.
         
          When I first started hiring for leadership positions, I didn't understand the difference between a manager, a director and a VP. Here's why that distinction matters.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
