Broadband TV News Independent. Since 2003 June 1, 2023 10.11 Europe/London By Robert Briel Qvest becomes technology partner for FAST channel playout of the European League of Football. With free ad-supported streaming television channels, the League can reach even more fans of American Football worldwide. “This new partnership with Qvest will not only be a benefit to us as a league, but especially to the 17 teams across Europe and their fans. Qvest enables us to use advertising pools, to concentrate on American Football content we are promoting globally and bringing the league closer to fans worldwide,” said Zeljko Karajica, CEO of the European League of Football. The League also signed a deal with WSC Sports, a provider of AI-powered video content for sport broadcasts. “The European League of Football is one of the fastest-growing competitions in sports and we are delighted to partner with them to help extend their popularity through our AI-powered content production,” said Daniel Shichman, CEO of WSC Sports. “Our tech is proven to play a key role in enabling leagues, clubs, and rights holders to grow their audiences, increase engagement levels and generate more content-related revenue streams.” Zeljko Karajica added: “WSC Sports’ cutting-edge artificial technology is an end-to-end solution that allows the European League of Football to publish content instantly, at scale. The potential seems almost infinite, and we are very happy to have secured such an innovative partner.” The European League of Football (ELF) is the professional American football league founded in 2020, featuring 17 teams from nine nations – including Austria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Spain, and Switzerland – with plans to expand to 24 teams by 2025. Filed Under: Newsline Tagged With: European League of Football Edited: 1 June 2023 10:11  Arnhem-based Robert covers the Benelux, France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland as well as IPTV, web TV, connected TV and OTT. Email Robert at rbriel@broadbandtvnews.com. Today, consumers are increasingly using bandwidth-intensive and latency-sensitive workloads, such as 4K and 8K streaming, online gaming, and AR/VR applications. As a result, Internet Service Providers must update their networks and by extension Wi-Fi experiences and performance. … [Download the White Paper ...] Copyright © 2024 Broadband TV News LLP · Log in