
			Meghan attended the event alongside Prince Harry and Doria Ragland to accept a Women of Vision award
		 The Duchess of Sussex was heckled when arriving at a gala in New York alongside Prince Harry and her mother, Doria Ragland. As she attended the Women of Vision awards on Tuesday a bystander was heard shouting at the Duchess: "Meghan, how do you feel being part of two broken families!?". The Duchess pulled up in a blacked-out SUV outside the Ziegfeld Ballroom in Manhattan in her first public appearance with Prince Harry since skipping the King's Coronation. She had been attending the gala to accept an award celebrating feminist champions. During her speech she told those present: “You can be the visionary of your own life." She said that through "daily acts of service" the women at the Ms. Foundation event could inspire the "next wave of women" to "join the movement and make our vision for an equitable world a reality". She encouraged the women in the audience to help to create an "equitable world" with "kindness, in advocacy, in grace, and in fairness".  Dressed in a £1,500 Johanna Ortiz dress, £1,000 Tom Ford stilettos and a matching £900 Carolina Herrera bag, the Duchess walked on stage to Girl on Fire by Alicia Keys.  She thanked Gloria Steinem, 89, for her "incredible friendship" and "mentorship" as she accepted the award. "While I was familiar with most of your work before tonight, nothing could compare to the focus, the determination, the energy I feel from each of you, especially as we all bear witness to you standing in the elegance and the power of your strength", she said. Speaking at the event at the Ziegfeld Ballroom in Manhattan, the Duchess said she had read Ms. Magazine while at school - the publication founded by Ms Steinem. She said the magazine had played a role in her upbringing, saying she "would come home, settle in after a day of school" with her "TV tray dinner" and see the magazines on the table. She said: "I remember them vividly because the pictures were different. There was a diversity that I hadn't seen as often, both of colour and of age, and the names were different. "There were Congresswomen, there were astronauts, and the topics were different. From mothering, to being a working mom, to heavier topics such as domestic violence, the poverty line, unearthing its roots, where it comes from, and matters of equity." The Duchess is described on the event website as “one of the most powerful and influential women in the world”. Her appearance breaks her brief disappearance from public life, as she had been keeping a low profile in Montecito for several months. The Duchess did not attend the King's Coronation, which fell on the same day as Prince Archie’s fourth birthday. On Friday, the couple were photographed visiting a sushi restaurant with Cameron Diaz, Gwyneth Paltrow and their husbands. Last month, Teresa C Younger, CEO of the Ms. Foundation, described the award winners as “incredible leaders”, adding: “We are grateful to be able to shine a light on their many accomplishments and tireless work on behalf of gender and racial equity across the country and the world.”