Chelsea have spent plenty of money on their first-team under new owner Todd Boehly, but arguably more interesting has been their approach to young players since the takeover. The Blues are perpetual suitors of nearly all the game's top young talents, with constant references to 'Vision 2030' used to justify their approach. So, what actually is Vision 2030? Conceptualised in 2019 and publicly unveiled in 2021, Vision 2030 is the title Chelsea have given to their plan for the academy. It involves scouting and buying some of the game's top young talents, both to create a wave of players capable of filling the gaps in the first-team and to push the youngsters who come through Chelsea's academy to greater heights. Having already brought through a crop of academy graduates which includes Mason Mount, Reece James and Trevoh Chalobah, Chelsea are eyeing another significant influx of academy talent by the time 2030 arrives. The plan came to fruition in 2019, when Frank Lampard was the manager and Roman Abramovich owned Chelsea. Both played important roles in the talks but the leader of Vision 2030 was former academy chief Neil Bath, whose good work has since earned him a promotion to director of football development. Working alongside Bath has been Jim Fraser, who has taken Bath's former role as head of youth development. With Abramovich leaving the club in 2022, new co-owner Boehly has also bought into Vision 2030 and has not shied away from accelerating plans with significant spending on young players. Goalkeeper Gabriel Slonina was signed from Chicago Fire during the summer, with talks initially beginning during Abramovich's reign and being concluded following the Boehly-led takeover. Since Boehly took charge, Chelsea have splashed out on a number of young players: The Blues have also struck deals to sign Molde striker Datro Fofana and Vasco da Gama midfielder Andrey Santos, both of whom are expected to make their moves to Stamford Bridge permanent in January 2023. © 2024 Minute Media - All rights reserved