Have you checked out the Annual Community Quilt Show happening at the Cheboygan Area Public Library? Come see the amazing quilted items created by members of your own community. The quilt show is free to attend and viewable during regular library hours which are Monday-Wednesday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Sunday 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. The Quilt Show will conclude at the end of March. Be sure to visit while you can. Curious about learning a new skill like quilting or maybe you want to discover a new style of quilting? The Cheboygan Library has many books about quilting for varying skill levels and types of quilting. Check out books or magazines to learn more about a craft or skill that interests you. Ready to meet some slithering friends? Now is your chance! The Straits Area Audubon Society and the Cheboygan Area Public Library are bringing the Snakes Alive! program to the Cheboygan Library on March 13 at 6 p.m. During this program, several snakes will be used to educate the public on their species and there may be a chance for audience members to touch or hold them. Snakes Alive! is an educational program that Jim and Carol McGrath share through their organization Nature Discovery, located in Williamston, Michigan, which resides east of Lansing. The McGraths have been educating both adults and youths about natural science through education programs at libraries and schools for more than twenty years. With over 40 species of Michigan snakes, turtles, lizards, frogs and salamanders, Nature Discovery is home to the largest collection of live Michigan Reptiles and Amphibians in the state. Nature Discovery is “dedicated to enhancing awareness and sensitivity toward Michigan's diverse living resources through natural science education.” To learn more, visit naturediscovery.net. March is Reading month. March was designated reading month to celebrate Dr. Seuss. Born March 2, 1904, Dr. Seuss was an author and illustrator of many popular children’s books. Celebrate this month by visiting the Cheboygan Library. Ask a student how they are celebrating March is Reading Month at school. Help young readers reach reading goals. Discover the many new books in our children’s section. Check out the new VOX books. VOX books are picture books with an audio reader attached for read-along reading. Children can simply push a button to listen and read (no computer or tablet is required). Reading aloud to children even after they have learned to read on their own is essential for building better readers. Hearing a story read aloud benefits children. They learn inflection, expression and build fluency. Consider reading aloud, taking turns reading a picture book or share reading pages in a chapter book. Time spent together reading is an investment. “You can find magic wherever you look, sit back and relax all you need is a book.” — Dr. Seuss Take and Read! Free to participate and open to 8th-12-graders. Teens receive a free book each month. The Books and Bites reading club meets the last Thursday of the month at the Cheboygan Library from 3:30-5 p.m. for book chat and a bite to eat. Bring a friend! Sign-up is required, stop by, call or sign up on the Bookclubs app. Reading is so important to grow minds young and old. Reading promotes mental stimulation, can reduce stress, enhances social skills, expands vocabulary, helps to improve memory, and promotes better sleep. Reading aloud is not just for children. Consider joining or forming a book club. Readers meet to discuss books, share favorite passages, offer interpretations or make predictions. Book clubs bring people together. There are also virtual book clubs and celebrity book club recommendations. However you choose to celebrate reading month, the Cheboygan Public Library has many resources to offer, visit us in person or online at cheboyganlibrary.org. — Paula Jewell is program director of the Cheboygan Area Public Library. This article originally appeared on Cheboygan Daily Tribune: Library Lines: Slither in to check out snakes New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others.