The 55th Kansas Mennonite Relief Sale will once again raise money through quilt and food sales to help people around the world, including Ukraine. The sale runs from 4 p.m. April 14 through mid-afternoon, April 15 on the Kansas State Fair grounds. The Mennonites who lived in South Russia—current day Ukraine--in 1920 were in a desperate situation. They were on the verge of starving to death. They made a plea to the Mennonites in Canada and the United States for help. This plea formed the world-relief organization known as Mennonite Central Committee. For more than 100 years, MCC has expanded into more than 55 countries providing relief, development and peace projects including today’s Ukraine. "A network of fundraisers called Relief Sales throughout North America seek to raise funds to support the work of MCC," said Becky Blough, Kansas Mennonite Relief sale volunteer. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. More:Students get look inside the The Hutchinson News pressroom The KMRS features six diverse auctions, children activities, International and local crafts, a carryout meal served Friday and Saturday features traditional Mennonite foods. Around 70 Kansas Mennonite, Brethren in Christ and Amish congregations join together—utilizing an all-volunteer staff--to organize, donate items and funds to make the sale possible. In 2022, KMRS donated $700,000 to MCC—donation total is a combination of sale proceeds and other donations to KMRS. The six auctions are the quilt auction, featuring more than 200 plus hand-crafted quilts and quilt-related items (see quilt gallery at www.kansas.mccsale.org); the general auction features a wide spectrum of items such as modern farm equipment, antique tractors, vehicles, tools, antiques and handcrafted furniture and children's toys and décor items. More:New Italian Restaurant to open in downtown Hutchinson soon Also being sold are fair trade coffee/chocolates, Kansas craft items, 1,000 garden plants, souvenirs, baked foods, cheeses, hams and sausage. The children’s activity building includes 9-hole mini golf and various inflatables donated by Inflate-O-Fun. Traditional Mennonite and American foods will be served throughout the fairgrounds. A 5K Run for Relief is scheduled at 8 a.m. Saturday morning at Rice Park (off the fairgrounds.) Entry forms are available at www.kansas.mccsale.org. KMRS begins at 4 p.m. Friday with food service in all buildings including Feeding the Multitude, featuring Russian-German and Swiss Mennonite foods in the Cottonwood Court. Auction items open for viewing at 4 p.m. along with the sale of priced items. The silent auction opens bidding at 5 p.m. in Sunflower South. The sale continues on Saturday with breakfast service starting at 7 a.m., sale of priced items at 8 a.m. and the silent auction reopens bidding at 8 a.m. while the general and quilt auctions start at 8:45 a.m. The weekend concludes with the Surplus Auction in Sunflower South.