FREMONT - In celebration of National Quilting Day on March 18, the Hayes Ohio Star Quilters’ Guild will host an open house at the Sandusky Township Hall. Anyone interested in quilts, quilting or the guild is welcome to attend the free event. Open house attendees can view quilt displays, watch guild members work on quilts, and enjoy refreshments. The guild, which has about 50 members from across Northwest Ohio, hopes the open house will attract even more people. Quilters of any skill level are welcome to join and attend monthly meetings. “You don’t even need to know how to sew. You can come just to get out of the house. It’s about friends and fellowship,” said Hayes Ohio Star Quilters’ Guild President Elizabeth LaCumsky. In the comfort of the guild gatherings, inexperienced members can learn to quilt. “We’ll teach you how to sew a straight line. If you can sew a straight line, you can learn to make a beautiful quilt,” said guild member Linda Gegorski. “We teach courage. People say ‘I can’t,’ but you can.” The Hayes Ohio Star Quilters’ Guild was formed in January, 1989, and was chartered as Chapter 447 of the National Quilting Association on May 1, 1989. According to information from the guild, the purpose of the group is to “unite quilters and quilt lovers by providing diversified programs in an atmosphere of friendship.” The guild meets the second Wednesday of every month at the Sandusky Township Hall at 7 p.m.  The guild hosts lectures and quilting programs, shares information on quilting resources, and hosts group trips. On the third Saturday of every month, the group gathers for a Sew Social to simply quilt and have fun. Once a year, the guild creates and donates a quilt to a local female veteran. “The women come to a meeting to tell their story, and we present them with the quilt. It’s fun for everyone,” Gegorski said. Since 1990, the guild’s spin-off group, Kwilts 4 Kids, has been making youth-sized quilts for local children. The quilts are distributed to a variety of local organizations, including Heartbeat-Hope Medical, ProMedica Memorial Hospital, Sandusky County Health Department and the School of Hope. To date, the group has donated more than 6,100 quilts. At the Feb. 8 guild meeting, members tied several Kwilts 4 Kids quilts. “The Kwilts 4 Kids group gets together twice a month on a Monday to work on the quilts, and twice a year — in February and September — we bring quilts to the regular meeting for members to tie,” said Kwilts 4 Kids committee member Sue Smith. To support the Kwilts 4 Kids project, the guild hosts fundraisers at the annual S.C.R.A.P. show, the Sacred Heart Bizarre and the Christmas Silent Auction and Guild Christmas Dinner. The group always accepts donations of fabric. This year, the group received extra help that will allow it to have an even bigger impact on the community. Kwilts 4 Kids was the recipient of a $500 Fremont Kiwanis grant that will be used to purchase batting, and it was the recipient of a $500 Constellation Community Champions grant that will be used to purchase batting plus other supplies. The Hayes Ohio Star Quilters’ Guild Open House will be held on March 18m from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Sandusky Township Hall at 2207 Oak Harbor Road. For more information, visit the Fremont Hayes Ohio Star Quilt Guild Facebook page or call 419-547-8177. Contact correspondent Sheri Trusty at sheritrusty4@gmail.com. This article originally appeared on Fremont News-Messenger: Hayes Ohio Star Quilt Guild plans open house New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.