By Carla McKeown/Breckenridge Texan From paintings of people, places and landscapes to photographs of all sorts of wildlife, the “Shutters & Strokes” exhibit at the Breckenridge Fine Arts Center features the works of Donna and Steve Miller of Grand Prairie. Steve’s paintings — oils, pastels and charcoals — and Donna’s photos will be on display in both galleries at the BFAC through Sept. 30. The exhibit includes a total of 126 pieces of art. Donna Miller’s photo, “I’m Outta Here,” focuses on a lizard with someplace to go. “The exhibit boasts 126 pieces of incredible art that details beauty in varying aspects,” BFAC Executive Director Shalon Wilson said in a news release. “You do not want to miss the nostalgic beauty of this exhibit.” An artists’ reception honoring the Millers will be held on Saturday, Sept. 9, from 2 to 4 p.m. The event will be open to the public. The exhibit is well-illuminated after all of the lights were recently replaced, thanks to a $25,000 the BFAC received. Wilson said the BFAC will host a quilt show in the fall. It will be open-invitation, which means that anyone can bring a quilt to be displayed. Although the BFAC will make every effort possible to exhibit all of the quilts submitted for the show, space is limited and every quilt may not be put on display. Keep an eye out for a notice with more details about when the BFAC will begin accepting quilts for the exhibit. The Breckenridge Fine Arts Center is located at 207 N. Breckenridge Ave. Currently observing summer hours, the BFAC is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday through Friday. Beginning in September, it will be open on Saturdays, as well. For more information, call the BFAC at 254-559-6602 or visit the BFAC’s Facebook page. The Shutters & Strokes exhibit features the photography of Donna Miller and the paintings of her husband, Steve Miller. It will be on exhibit at the Breckenridge Fine Arts Center through the end of September. (Photo by Tony Pilkington/Breckenridge Texan) “Texas & Pacific Railroad Station, oil on canvas, by Steve Miller Much of Donna Miller’s photography features wildlife, such as this rattlesnake. “The Cross,” soft pastel on Ampersand pastel board, by Steve Miller Cutline, top photo: Steve Miller’s painting “Taco Moon,” a 24 x 12-inch oil on canvas, depicts a food truck near the Trinity River close to Downtown Dallas.    