A shower is possible early. Partly cloudy skies. Low 68F. Winds light and variable..
                                 A shower is possible early. Partly cloudy skies. Low 68F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 6:58 pm    Click here to stay informed and subscribe to Herald-Dispatch. Click  #isupportlocal for more information on supporting our local journalists. Learn more about HD Media  West Virginia State Auditor John B. McCuskey and AARP-West Virginia joined with lawmakers Tuesday to announce legislation that will help West Virginians who are victims of scams. State Auditor’s Office CHARLESTON — West Virginia State Auditor John B. McCuskey and AARP-West Virginia joined with lawmakers Tuesday to announce legislation that will help West Virginians who are victims of scams. The Victim Restitution Assistance bill, SB 576/HB 3250, will establish a restitution fund for scam victims when securities violations are involved, such as retirement accounts. The fund will focus on seniors and vulnerable adults who have less time to rebuild their life savings. “We are proud to once again partner with AARP-West Virginia to help protect West Virginia taxpayers. As the Securities Commissioner for the State, we see victims who lose their entire life savings to these scam artists, and they are left with nothing. With SB 576, we have developed a way to establish a fund to help all scam victims get back on their feet, without a cost to the state. It’s a win, win,” McCuskey said in a press release. McCuskey said this type of fraud is unreported because victims feel a sense of shame that they were scammed. “My hope is that with this fund, we will encourage people to come forward to ask for help, allowing my office to identify and fight the fraud, while offering a lifeline,” he said. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, investment scams in 2021 reached nearly $1.5 billion across more than 20,000 victims in America. AARP West Virginia State Director Gaylene Miller thanked McCuskey for his commitment to strengthen protections for the elderly in West Virginia — including the 230,000 AARP members in the Mountain State — who could be a victim of financial crime. “The financial losses suffered by older victims are often greater, with more to lose from their years of hard work, savings and benefits. This legislation will help those who have less time to recuperate these losses and bear the devastating financial and emotional toll of these crimes,” Miller said. The funds are for victims who are awarded restitution in a final order issued by the West Virginia Securities Commission or by a court for a violation of West Virginia Securities law and will only be available when there is no option of recovery from the scam artist. Seniors and vulnerable adults can request up to 50% restitution. All others can request up to 25% restitution. Sen. Ryan Weld, R-Brooke, and Delegate Steve Westfall, R-Jackson, are lead sponsors of the bill. In 2020, a bill was passed to allow broker-dealers to alert the Securities Commission when there is suspected fraudulent activity on a retirement account. In 2022, another law was passed to allow the Auditor’s Securities Commission to share information about financial fraud with DHHR’s Senior Services division.   Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist The latest in news, sports and opinion delivered directly to your inbox The weekend's biggest headlines in one convenient package Stay informed with the latest on WVU and Marshall sports Comprehensive coverage of high school sports in West Virginia and beyond Your go-to source for local arts, entertainment and eats Stay up to date with the latest news from the state Capitol, including Phil Kabler's Statehouse Beat column Explore Appalachia with the latest in travel and recreation Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.