Owning a set of the best night vision binoculars is a must if you want to spot nocturnal wildlife or enjoy views of the night sky. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 It might come as a surprise to you that the best night vision binoculars aren't simply reserved for the special forces. No: this specialist equipment is actually readily available to anybody who wants to use it — and if you're interested in watching nocturnal wildlife or observing the night sky, owning a pair can come in really handy. If astronomy is your hobby, you of course don't need a pair of night vision binoculars to be able to enjoy the stars. But a good set can really enhance your stargazing experience. For wildlife watchers, though, they're an absolute must if you want to get up-close and personal to elusive nocturnal creatures. Away from that, night vision binoculars can even simply come in handy when finding your way around on a night time adventure. Night vision binoculars come in a variety of different formats. Some look like regular binoculars, whilst others might take the form of a monocular or a pair of goggles that you can wear on your head in a similar way to VR headsets. Many models also have the ability to record photos and video to a memory card, allowing you to share your discoveries with friends and family.   For those who don't require night vision, we also have guides to the best binoculars and best compact binoculars, and if you're looking for a more traditional stargazing experience, check out our lists of the best telescopes and best telescopes for deep space.  With Amazon's annual Prime Day event coming up on 16 and 17 July, you can bag a great deal on a whole range of different products. Space.com will be keeping you up to date on all the best bargains, so keep checking our 2024 Prime Day deals hub to make sure you don't miss out.  Best overall  Best overall Boasting a viewing range of 1640 ft / 500m and a minimum focusing distance is just 6.5 ft, these night vision goggles offer great versatility for wildlife-watchers. Read more below Best for close-up use  Best for close-up use You'll struggle to find better value night vision goggles. The viewing distance is just 75 yards (70m), so they're best for home surveillance, backyard nature spotting and darkroom work. Read more below Best functionality  Best functionality There's heaps of useful functionality in this model — twin AMOLED displays, a laser rangefinder and high-resolution imaging. Watch over Wi-Fi or record to a memory card. Read more below Best premium monocular  Best premium monocular This monocular has an infrared range of a ginormous 3937 ft/ 1200m. The picture-in-picture capability and quick refresh rate make it easy to keep your subject in the center of the frame.  Read more below Best budget  Best budget Boasting impressive specs at a very reasonable price point, these night vision binoculars feature HD image and video recording, with a 32GB SD card included in the package. Read more below Best for slo-mo video  Best for slow-mo video These weather-resistant binos are excellent at shooting high-speed video in the dark. They can share real-time rangefinder information with other people via an app and share videos. Read more below Load 4 more products ↴ Best for simplicity  Best for simplicity These binos are bulky but good quality, with the ability to record photos and videos during the day or at night. They have a long battery life for those long wildlife observing sessions. Read more below Best for resolution  Best for resolution These tiny, lightweight binoculars certainly pack a punch with their 36MP images and 4K video capture, alongside anti-shake technology to ensure blur-free footage.  Read more below Best affordable monocular  Best affordable monocular An affordable alternative to the Zeiss model, this monocular can record HD photos and video with easy sharing capabilities, although the battery life leaves a lot to be desired. Read more below Best for long range  Best for long range On paper, they're perfect. Long range, generous battery life and detailed 16MP images and 4K video. But the mixed reviews may put users off. Read more below Why you can trust Space.com 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test and review products. Our expert review: ✅ You want to see far into the distance: The Creative XP Night Vision Goggles Elite has a huge viewing range of 1640 ft.

✅ You want something that's tripod compatible: Give your arms a  break during longer sessions by mounting them on a tripod.

✅ You want to be able to record video: These binoculars can record video, and a 128GB memory card is also supplied. ❌ You're just curious about your backyard wildlife: There are plenty of other models that would be perfectly adequate for backyard wildlife spotting that cost a fraction of the price. 🔎 Creative XP Night Vision Goggles Elite: Though fairly expensive, we think these are the best night vision goggles on the market at the moment with their long viewing range, tripod compatibility and video recording capability. ★★★★½ We've ranked the Creative XP Night Vision Elite Goggles as the best night vision binoculars currently on the market. They've been around since 2021, but thanks to their versatility and superior functionality, they're still at the top of their game. WIth their viewing range stretching to 1,640 feet (up to 500 meters), they're by far the best of any other night vision binoculars on our list. They're also suitable for close-range viewing too, allowing you to see objects at a minimum of 6.5 feet (2 meters). There's also a 5x optical zoom and an 8x digital zoom. That makes them just as capable as viewing birds and wildlife in your yard as they are at viewing the night sky. You won't need to worry about being caught out in bad weather with these binoculars since they come with an IPX4 water resistance rating and feature sturdy shell armor. They can also be mounted to a tripod, which is ideal for longer viewing sessions to stop your arms getting tired. The 2200mAh battery is easily rechargeable via mains power or a portable power bank — a much better setup than the AA batteries featured on the previous model. Wildlife enthusiasts will love having the ability to record QHD (3200 x 1800p) video on these binoculars, and they come with a 128GB memory card supplied so you can get filming right away. With nine adjustable levels of infrared (IR) night vision, you also get complete manual control whatever the light levels. Although they're fairly expensive, we think all these features make them well worth the money. Our expert review: ✅ You want something affordable:  These are undoubtedly a budget pair of night vision binoculars. They offer basic night vision functionality for moving about in the dark, backyard/small park wildlife spotting, but nothing beyond that.

✅ You want something lightweight: The Nightfox Swift are very comfortable to wear on your head for extended periods of time, allowing you to explore the dark hands-free. ❌ You're likely to use them in inclement weather: Though they would likely be fine in drizzle or fog, as there isn't an official waterproof rating you might want to err on the side of caution.

❌ You want USB-C charging: Though only a small niggle, the now-dated micro-USB charging port usually means keeping an extra cable around and remembering to take it with you if you're traveling away from home. 🔎 Nightfox Swift: A good budget pair of night vision goggles. They have limited uses but at a relatively low price point, we can't complain too much. ★★★½ The Nightfox Swift night vision binoculars might not have all of the bells and whistles of some of the more expensive options on this list, but they do a valiant job of letting users see in the dark. Even better, they do it with a very reasonable price tag. Costing less than $200, it's no surprise that some features are lacking on the Nightfox Swift night vision goggles. There's no waterproofing, so they're not exactly ideal for using in inclement weather conditions. You won't find high magnification, either, and you can't take photos or record videos. But if you aren't bothered about any of those features? These are very good binoculars indeed. In our Nightfox Swift review, we noted that these night vision binoculars were so light it's almost disconcerting. But once you're used to it, you'll find they're very comfortable to use and easily fit into one hand. They can even be mounted to your head, and their weight makes them comfy to use that way for long periods, too. The 3000mAh rechargeable battery provides approximately three hours of usage. The binoculars charge with micro-USB, although we would prefer USB-C charging. Additionally, the labels on the five control buttons are challenging to see in the dark, so we recommend familiarizing yourself with the controls before using them at night. We liked the range of settings offered here. You can adjust the backlight for a brighter or dimmer image and control the intensity of the infrared beam for a lighter or darker image. Just be aware that higher settings might make the infrared beams visible to others. The main drawback we noticed is that the eye guard restricts your peripheral vision, making navigating unfamiliar surroundings challenging. However, you could solve this issue by adding an inexpensive fisheye lens to increase your field of view. If recording isn't essential for you, this pair provides many features for its price. Our expert review: ✅ You'd like a digital binocular for daytime use: Thanks to the special daytime mode, the color filter and the AMOLED screen,  you can use these night vision binos as a digital binocular/camera in the daytime as well as at night.

✅ You want to record video: Not all binoculars offer this functionality, but this pair captures photos at 16.1 megapixels and video in 1080p. ❌ You need something for inclement weather: There is no official waterproof rating, so it's probably best to avoid these if you spend a lot of time in the rain.

❌ You're on a tight budget: This pair is pretty expensive because of the tech that is packed in. 🔎 Luna Optics LN-G3-B50: A great choice if you'd like a high-quality pair of binoculars that you can use to record with, and if you'd also make use of digital binoculars in the daytime. ★★★★ The Luna Optics LN-G3-B50 is a high-tech piece of kit that uses AMOLED-Q widescreen HD displays in the eyepieces to offer impressive night vision of objects up to 600 meters away. They also feature a laser rangefinder that can measure distances up to 700 meters away, helping you to pinpoint wildlife or particular points in the landscape.   You get a choice between black and white, night vision green and amber display options, as well as built-in color filtering to ensure a realistic color balance during daytime viewing, making this a highly versatile pair of binoculars. With a digital zoom of up to 36x, you'll be able to get a close-up view of wildlife without scaring them away.   The Luna Optics night vision binoculars can also be used to take photos and record video. Images can be captured at 16.1MP, and you can record videos up to QHD at 30fps and 1080p 60fps. We should note, though, that digital zooming is restricted to up to 6x when recording video. There's space to install a micro-SD memory card in order to store your captures, or you can connect the binoculars to an external USB storage device. Luna Optics have recently brought out a PRO version of these binoculars, which offer a new night vision white phosphor mode in addition to all the other display modes. For some people, white phosphor can appear more natural and reduce the strain on the eyes during longer viewing sessions. The LN-G3-B50-PRO model also extends the rangefinding capabilities to 1500 meters and the digital zoom up to 39x.   Our expert review: ✅ You want to see far into the distance: The Zeiss DTI 3/35 has one of the longest viewing ranges on this list and a huge 3937 ft / 1200m IR range. ❌ You're on a budget: Not only is the viewing distance one of the longest, but, at over $2500, the Zeiss DTI 3/35 is also one of the most expensive models in this guide. 🔎 Zeiss DTI 3/35: The longest viewing range but also one of the highest price tags, this is for someone who will use it on a daily or very regular basis. ★★★★ You know you're getting unrivalled optical quality when it comes to Zeiss, and the DTI 3/35 monocular is no exception. Technically, this is a thermal imaging camera as opposed to night vision, but in everyday use it operates more or less the same.  This monocular is fantastically designed for observing wildlife at night. The speedy 50Hz refresh rate means that it has no problem keeping track of fast-moving objects, and the option to overlay a zoomed-in image on top of the main image lets you enjoy a close-up view with less risk of losing your subject if they decide to make a sudden move. It offers 2.5x optical zoom and up to 4x digital zoom increasing in 0.5x increments. It also boasts an impressive range of 1,350 yards (1,234 meters).   When it comes to night vision, you get four color options — a standard white view, an inverted dark image, red to highlight heat sources and a rainbow mode for showing variations in temperature. You can also use red brackets to track the greatest heat source within the frame, which is handy for spotting animals among the foliage. The monocular allows you to record up to 15GB of video and share video to your phone via the Zeiss app.   Recently, Zeiss has released an updated version of the DTI 3/35. This second generation comes with an improved AMOLED display with better image quality. There are also new color modes which focus on reducing glare and combating potential eye strain. It comes with a slightly higher price point, but if these features are important to you, it's perhaps worth looking at when shopping for the best night vision binoculars. Our expert review: ✅ You want something waterproof: The Hexeum Night Vision Goggles are IP66 rated which means they are protected against high-pressure (12.5mm) water jets. ❌ They aren't on offer: The price of this model fluctuates dramatically throughout the year, with the biggest discounts being seen around Amazon Prime Day and Black Friday. Don't pay more than $130 for them. 🔎 Hexeum Night Vision Binoculars: If you can get them at a good price they are worth the purchase, but bear in mind they require six AA batteries which will make them heavier and be an ongoing expense. ★★★★ If you're looking to experience the world of night vision binoculars on a limited budget, you can't get much better than the Hexeum Night Vision Binoculars, especially if you manage to pick them up at a discount. These binoculars pack in a lot of features that you'd usually only expect to see on more expensive pairs, giving you a great bang for your buck.   The image quality of the Hexeum Night Vision Binoculars is very impressive, largely thanks to their fully multi-coated lenses which offer excellent light intake. They feature a 4x digital zoom, a CMOS sensor and, surprising for this price range, they're also capable to recording HD video and capturing images. If you're thinking of recording wildlife at night, then, these are an excellent option — you'll even get a 32GB memory card included in the box so you can hit the ground running straight away. When taking these binoculars out and about, we enjoyed the 10-degree viewing angle combined with the 24mm aperture as it meant you could scan your eye across large areas without much movement — great for spotting any significant points of interest. They also have an incredible continuous runtime of eight hours with the adjustable IR on or 17 hours without. The only major downside is that they require 6x AA batteries and are incompatible with rechargeable batteries, so you'll need to be well stocked and willing to keep forking out for more batteries over time with this pair. Our expert review: ✅ You want to record Ultra HD video, day or night: You can capture excellent 4K video with no loss of resolution up to 10x magnification.

✅ You'd like a built-in laser rangefinder: Share real-time rangefinder information with other mobile phones to notify others of the location of your subject. ❌ You won't utilize all the functionality: If you don't need all of the technical functionality, pick a cheaper pair like the Nightfox Swift. 🔎 ATN Binox 4K: 120FPS recording is the main attraction here, as is the real-time, shareable rangefinder information. ★★★½ The ATN Binox 4K night vision binoculars aren't for everyone thanks to their high price point. But if you have the budget, you won't be disappointed with this piece of equipment — especially if you're looking for something with wide-ranging functionality. For capturing fast-motion videos in low light or tough weather, the ATN Binox 4K should be considered a must-have. These binoculars can share real-time rangefinder data with others through mobile devices and send laser tags. This feature is particularly useful for coordinating team positioning when observing or photographing wildlife outdoors. Thanks to an IR illuminator, the ATN Binox 4K boasts a range up to 1km. These night vision binoculars are capable of capturing video too, although it's limited to 1080p. We particularly like their live stream feature: use the ATN Obsidian 4  app on Android or Apple and you can live stream and record at the same time (though streaming is capped at 720p). Within the dedicated app, you can save and share content, as well as creating slow-motion effects thanks to being able to record up to 120FPS. One thing we like about the ATN Binox 4K is its extremely low power consumption, with an internal battery that can last up to 15 hours and a USB-C charging port. A micro SD card is needed for storage, however, you will need to supply your own as it doesn't come with one included. Our expert review: ✅ You want to record footage: These binos allow you to record footage onto a micro SD card.

✅ You want long battery life: These binos afford 8 hours with the IR on full power and 16 hours for regular daytime use. ❌ You want something lightweight: At 2.86 lbs / 1.3kg, these binos are heavy to use and carry for extended periods. 🔎 Sigweis Night Vision Binoculars: These neat little night vision binos are not so little in size, but they're easy to use day and night and have a simple setup ideal for beginners. ★★★★ The Sigweis Night Vision binoculars are a great choice if you're new to night vision binoculars: they're easy to use and, thanks to their simple six-button layout, they're straightforward to get to grips with. Without breaking the bank, they have a solid range of features on offer, including the capability of recording full HD video and capturing images at 3MP. These night vision binoculars have a solid build quality but, as a result are a little bulky. You'll certainly find sleeker looking models on the market, but for the price point, they certainly feel good enough quality in the hands. The Sigweis night vision binoculars are a little on the heavy side, however: they weigh 2.86lbs/1.3kg, so you'll quickly notice if you're lugging them around and holding them up to your face for long periods of time. Thankfully, they can be mounted to a tripod to take the weight off, but that of course reduces their portability. On the plus side, they are IP56 waterproof rated, so they can be used in just about any weather condition. Video can be captured in both night vision and daytime color modes, and you can capture up to 2.5 hours worth of content. There's built-in storage to allow for up to 9,999 images and, unlike some other models, you can view your captures right in the viewfinder without needing to export them to a PC first. It comes equipped with all the accessories you'd need to go along with it, including a custom-fit military-grade hard case, carbon-tipped lens cleaning brush, a 32GB high-speed Micro SD Card (Inserted in Camera) and adapter, shoulder strap and soft carry bag, a soft lens cleaner cloth, USB cable and a user manual. The only thing it doesn't include is batteries — you'll need 6 x AA batteries, and sadly it's not compatible with rechargeable ones. Our expert review: ✅ You don't want to keep buying batteries: These binoculars are rechargeable, so you won't have to keep stocking up on batteries.

✅ You want something super lightweight: These binos weigh just 0.66 lbs / 300g.

✅ You shoot moving objects: The anti-shake technology ensures your footage of moving objects isn't blurry. ❌ You want a protective case: There isn't one included so you'll have to buy one separately. 🔎 FVTGA Night Vision Binoculars: These tiny night vision binoculars pack a punch with their 36MP photos and 4K videos, and their anti-shake technology ensures your footage is blur-free. But they're let down by the lack of information. ★★★★ FVTGA haven't released much information about their Night Vision Binoculars, such as details about their range or sensor, but from what can tell from our own experience they're an absolute steal at under $200. They're extremely lightweight, coming in at only 0.66 lbs (300g), so they're easy to tuck away in a coat pocket or your backpack when you're going out and about. The onboard technology is impressive for the price, too. They can produce 36MP photos and 4K video, along with featuring built-in anti-shake technology, which is similar to the image stabilization you find on many digital cameras. This means that you're able to shoot seamless blur-free footage, even with fast moving objects like animals whipping across your field of view. The 5x digital zoom is also handy for zooming in closer to wildlife without disturbing it too much. The FVTGA Night Vision Binoculars also work well in half-light conditions as well as absolute darkness. There are seven adjustable levels of infrared which enables the binoculars to adjust to differing lighting conditions. Since you can use them from dusk all the way to dawn, you'll be glad to hear that the rechargeable batteries last between 8-12 hours on a single charge. You can buy the FVTGA Night Vision Binoculars in black or green and they come with a 32GB memory card, a neck strap and an instruction manual. Ideally, we'd have liked to have seen a protective case included in the package but if you want this then you'll have to buy one separately. Despite the lack of information, we think they're great value for money and well worth a punt at this price point. Our expert review: ✅ You don't have a massive budget: While it's certainly not cheap, there are much more expensive models on the market.

✅ You want options: There are three different variants to choose from — 3 x 30, 4.5 x 40 and 6 x 50. ❌ You want a decent battery life: The battery life is short and it runs on 4 x AA batteries. 🔎 Bushnell Equinox Z2: For users without a huge budget, this monocular is a decent option. You won't get the same specs as the more premium options, but it does the job nicely. ★★★½ Here's another monocular, but this time it comes in at a much lower price tag than the Zeiss model featured higher up the page. Of course, that lower price tag means it lacks some features in comparison, but there's still a lot to like about the Bushnell Equinox Z2. Bushnell is a very reputable brand, and it still has a veritable array of features that we think will be more than enough for a large amount of users. It can capture images and HD video up to 1080p, and it's easy to connect to your smartphone or PC in order to upload those captures. Bushnell says you'll experience edge-to-edge resolution when using this monocular, along with, increased light transmission and reduced glare, offering a crisp, clear and illuminated image every time.  It can be used during the day or in moderately lit areas at night with the objective lens cover on (it has a pinhole to restrict light entry). The controls are easy to understand, but we'd recommend reading the online manual to fully grasp all the features. There are three different models available — 3 x 30mm, 4.5 x 40mm and 6 x 50mm. They also come with a generous lifetime warranty and a carry case for safe storage and to protect it during transport, although we'd have liked there to be a memory card included, especially for the price. Still, we think it's a decent balance between affordability and premium features. Our expert review: ✅ You want detailed images: These binoculars can capture 16MP images and 4K video footage.

✅ You want long battery life: 10-15 hours of battery life will see you through those long observation sessions. ❌ You don't want to gamble: There are mixed customer reviews on these binoculars, making it hard to tell whether they'll live up to their claims. 🔎 WOSPORTS 4K Night Vision Binoculars: On paper, they're a dream. Long 1300ft+ viewing range, generous battery life and detailed footage — but the mixed reviews may put buyers off. ★★★★ The WOSPORTS 4K night vision binoculars suit various activities like bird watching, hunting, and camping. With their powerful magnification and advanced features, these goggles are essential for outdoor lovers. They offer impressive battery life, equipped with a 3.7-volt 5000mAh rechargeable battery — meaning you don't have to keep stocking up on batteries. On a single charge, you can capture black and white photos and videos in total darkness for more than 10 hours, and over 15 hours of stunning color images and videos during the day. They excel at capturing stunning 4K UHD video (with sound) and images with a respectable 16MP resolution, and there's a different mode for capturing, recording and playback. The 3-inch screen means you can view your photos and video footage with clarity and detail. They have three different night modes to choose from (red, white or green) and they feel solid and well-made. The range offered by the WOSPORTS night vision binoculars is impressive too: you can view targets up to 1,315 feet (400m) away. It's not the biggest range compared to some other night vision binoculars on this list, but it's still rather impressive. Add to that an up to 10x optical zoom and a 8x digital zoom, and you can get up close and personal to the objects or creatures you'd like to observe. The WOSPORTS 4K night vision binoculars are also waterproof, making them great for use in all weather conditions. They come with a storage box, neck strap, a 32GB SD card and cleaning cloth inside the box, too. As with any other product, not all night vision binoculars available to buy online are worth your hard-earned money. Unfortunately, some models can be of poor quality and leak light into the human visual range, ruining the point of getting natural night vision binoculars in the first place. Luckily, our buying guide only contains recommendations from reputable brands, including models that are tried and tested by our expert reviewers.  Magnification is an important factor to consider when choosing a pair of night vision binoculars. For example, if you only need them for home security, you won't need as much magnification as someone wanting to observe animals in the wild.  Choosing binoculars with a wider field of view will allow you to see more of your surroundings at once, which can come in handy if you're searching large expanses of land or observing the night sky. The answer is yes, but not all models have that capability. Our buying guide outlines which night vision binoculars have the option to record video, and which are solely meant to be observation devices. If you're after binoculars that will allow you to record footage and rewatch it after the event, you'll want to make sure they've got video capabilities. If binoculars are branded as 'night vision' then they should grant you the capacity to see in the dark. However, some products are branded as night vision binoculars, but are in fact not binoculars are at all. A night vision monocular, for example, would have two lenses at the front, one for a camera and one for an infrared illuminator, with a smaller display for a single eye. Other products are referred to as 'night vision goggles', which tend to be hands-free and let you roam in the dark without having to hold them up in your hands. Night vision equipment entails some quality materials and tech if you're after a powerful piece of kit. Unfortunately, that means it doesn't necessarily come cheap. While there are very budget-friendly products available, we wouldn't always recommend opting for them if you want a product that will last. Likewise, be wary if you're thinking of buying a discontinued item (and there are many of these right now) as you take on the risk of not being able to repair it and replace parts if it starts to malfunction. What is the best value night vision binocular I can buy but still get a quality pair? We recommend the Hexeum Night Vision Binoculars as the best budget buy. They have an excellent runtime, are capable of recording HD video and even come with a 32GB memory card. You can often grab a great deal on them, too. The implication of using night vision binoculars can be quite serious, as they are often used in covert operations, for example. As such, not all night vision gear is legal in all countries. Laws vary; in the USA, they can even vary from state to state. If you're not sure, a local retailer or club is your best bet to check. Make sure you seek advice before purchasing to avoid running into trouble. At Space.com, we understand how important it is to have reliable and honest recommendations when purchasing night vision binoculars. To ensure that we provide accurate and up-to-date information, we conduct thorough and rigorous reviews on each instrument.  Our team of expert staff and knowledgeable freelance contributors test each pair of binoculars based on various aspects such as construction, design, optical performance, and field performance. This ensures that our reviews are fair and unbiased, and are based on personal, hands-on experience with each binocular. Best compact binoculars
Best monocular
Best Binoculars
Best headlamps We also evaluate how easy the binoculars are to operate, whether they come with appropriate accessories or carry bags, and whether they are suitable for spectacles wearers. If necessary, we also make suggestions for additional accessories that can enhance your viewing experience.  At Space.com, we are committed to providing you with complete editorial independence and reliable buying advice on night vision binoculars. Our reviews and buying guides are transparent and trustworthy, helping you make an informed decision when purchasing a specific model. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Russ Swan is a UK-based freelance science writer and author with a love of all things related to space and aviation. He built his own 100mm refractor telescope from some bits found in a military surplus store, and once had lunch with Neil Armstrong. His popular science book The Physics Behind… explains not just how the universe works, but why. He tweets (occasionally)! Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Fold Gen 2 laptop review HP Spectre x360 14 (2024) laptop review 'Alien: Romulus' is a visceral return to form for a venerable sci-fi franchise (review) Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 