MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld sued Xcential Corp. of California, alleging it misappropriated trade secrets related to software for writing federal bills, but the defendant responded by denying allegations and filing counterclaims.  November 29, 2022 at 12:24 AM  4 minute read Contractual Disputes Senior reporter The original version of this story was published on National Law Journal Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld is embroiled in litigation with California-based Xcential Legislature Technologies over trade secrets related to the development of software that would make it easier to draft federal legislation. On Oct. 14, Akin Gump filed a complaint for damages and injunctive relief in Superior Court for the District of Columbia, alleging Xcential Corp. and co-founder and CEO Grant Vergottini misappropriated a trade secret—counsel Louis Agnello’s idea for bill drafting software—breached a non-disclosure agreement, breached good faith and fair dealing, and were unjustly enriched. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Jimmy Hoover By Abigail Adcox By Abigail Adcox By Cheryl Miller 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Law.com now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.