Reinsurance News  22nd February 2023 - Author: Jack Willard AXA XL has announced two key leadership hires, with Winston Zhuo named as Head of Property and Construction, China and Carlson Grote as Head of Broker & Distribution Performance Management for its APAC & Europe Business Unit. Based in Shanghai, China, Zhuo joins the firm from Allianz China Corporate & Specialty Dept, where he held the role of Senior Underwriting Manager / Engineering for over nine years. Prior to Allianz, Zhuo spent two years at AXA Corporate Solution where he worked as a Senior Construction Underwriter. Additionally, Zhuo also previously worked at AIG General Insurance Company China Ltd., as a Senior Specialist – Property / Energy Underwriting, and Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Company, as a Senior Supervisor. Grote, meanwhile, joined AXA in 2014 as a Liability Underwriter where he was based in München. Three years later he became a Triage Manager, and was based in New York.  In 2019, he was then named Head of AXA International Services Germany, P&C Multinational Global Programs, and would serve in this role for three years before being named Client Management Leader APAC & Europe, AXA XL in mid-2022. Furthermore, AXA XL recently hired Diego Cerquenich as Senior Risk Consultant, Marine, UK & Lloyd’s, and Patrick Lee as Chief Financial Officer for Canada. AXA XL also recently launched a new strategy to address sustainability challenges. The firm stated that the strategy is built on three main themes: valuing nature, addressing climate change and integrating ESG factors into business operations. Advertise on Reinsurance News We have 200,000+ readers every month & 27,000+ email subscribers. Reach the largest reinsurance audience. We also publish Artemis.bm, the leading publisher of news, data and insight for the catastrophe bond, insurance-linked securities, reinsurance convergence, longevity risk transfer and weather risk management sectors.. We’ve published and operated Artemis since its launch 20 years ago and have a readership of around 60,000 every month. Get in touch directly using our contact form. Or find and follow Reinsurance News on social media.
Get reinsurance news by email here. All content copyright © Steve Evans Ltd. 2024 All rights reserved. Steve Evans Ltd. registered in England No. 07337195
Website Privacy & Cookies and Disclaimer Δ