
                
                    
                        Let CIO Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              From Apple to Target, CIO Dive compiled the most notable CIO appointments at the world’s leading companies this year, as well as leaders to watch in 2023. CIOs connect IT projects to business outcomes, helping companies deliver effective customer and employee experiences. It's a C-suite position that can't sit vacant for long. The CIO plays a high-profile role in companies, and 3 in 5 organizations say the role is becoming more strategic, according to the 2022 Nash Squared Digital Leadership Report. Three-quarters of respondents simply don't think it’s possible to run an organization without a CIO.  In 2022, businesses across industries quickly appointed CIOs, expanded their portfolios or brought in fresh talent to support shifting digital ambitions. Some of the largest companies in the world, from Apple to Target named new CIOs in 2022.  CIO Dive compiled some of the most notable CIO appointments this year, as well as leaders to watch in 2023. Timothy Campos, a technology veteran and former Facebook executive, became CIO at Apple in November. Campos replaced outgoing executive Mary Demby, who stepped down following three decades at the consumer technology giant.  Michelle Greene, a long-time executive with a background in the manufacturing industry, became CIO of Cardinal Health in August. Green, who reports to CEO Jason Hollar, previously joined Cardinal Health in 2021, and was tasked with leading IT strategy for the company’s pharmaceutical segment as SVP of EIT. Greene succeeded McDonald's Rice, who began his new role in August.  Fahim Siddiqui, a former executive at Staples, MCI and Time Warner Telecom, joined Home Depot in April as its EVP and CIO. Siddiqui was tasked with leading the company’s digital strategy, infrastructure and software development for the company's storefronts supply chain facilities, store support centers and online systems. Walgreens Boots Alliance named Hsiao Wang, a retail technology veteran with stints at Walmart and The Michaels Company, as its new SVP and CIO in September. Reporting directly to CEO Roz Brewer, Wang replaced outgoing SVP and global CIO Francesco Tinto. EVP and CIO Mike McNamara, leader of the retailer's IT organization since 2015, announced last year he planned to retire in 2022. In May, the retailer announced Brett Craig, who joined Target in 2008, as McNamara's successor. Craig reports to Cara Sylvester, who was appointed to the newly minted role of EVP and chief guest experience officer. IBM's Red Hat elevated Jim Palermo, a former VP of Digital Solutions Delivery (DSD), to the role of VP and CIO. In the new role, Palermo will “help drive alignment within Red Hat’s internal systems and environments," the company said in an October announcement. Zulfi Jeevanjee became Allstate's CIO in October, marking the executive's second leadership stint at Allstate. Before taking the CIO position at the insurance giant, Jeevanjee served as CVS Health CTO and SVP, and as SVP of enterprise architecture and innovation at Allstate prior to that. In May, financial services company Northwestern Mutual appointed Jeff Sippel as its EVP and CIO, replacing Neal Sample. The company tasked Sippel — who joined Northwestern Mutual in 2019 and most recently served as VP of client experience — with leading its technology organization. Ganesh Jayaram, a former executive at Deere, joined the airline in September as the company's new chief digital and information officer. During his tenure at Deere, Jayaram led the deployment of hybrid cloud and development of an autonomous tractor. Longtime UPS technology Juan Perez left the shipping giant in March after 32 years. Perez joined Salesforce as CIO and member of the company's executive leadership team in April, leading the software company's business technology organization. Amid a wholesale leadership turnover, including a new CEO and several other key executives, discount retailer Dollar Tree named Bobby Aflatooni as CIO in July. Aflatooni had previously held leadership roles at The Howard Hughes Corporation and Dollar General. Archana "Archie" Deskus, a seasoned IT veteran with experience across industries, left the CIO role at Intel to join the payments giant in March, reporting directly to CEO Dan Schulman. Deskus oversees global IT operations as CIO and EVP at PayPal, which had invested $1 billion over the last two years into technology, marketing, engineering and customer support. The fast food chain tapped Brian Rice in August as its new EVP and global CIO, reporting directly to CEO Chris Kempczinski. McDonald's also named a new global chief supply chain officer and CFO this year.  XPO Logistics announced it planned to appoint Jay Silberkleit as its next chief information officer in September, replacing Mario Harik, who was named CEO of the logistics company. The appointment was effective following the completion of the company's spinoff of the RXO brokerage arm.  Food industry technology leader Mike Sullivan became SVP and CIO at Post Holdings in September. Sullivan previously served as VP and CIO at Bob Evans Farms Inc. — a Post Holdings company — where he held a number of leadership roles for three decades. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said underinvesting in the technology is a larger risk than overinvesting, as vendors pour resources into developing chips, models and infrastructure.  IT occupations across the economy contracted by 14,000 last month, a CompTIA review of U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data found. Keep up with the story. Subscribe to the CIO Dive free daily newsletter Subscribe to CIO Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said underinvesting in the technology is a larger risk than overinvesting, as vendors pour resources into developing chips, models and infrastructure.  IT occupations across the economy contracted by 14,000 last month, a CompTIA review of U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data found. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines