
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  London, May 15, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Evolving consumer behavior has compelled businesses to strive for creating exceptional delivery experiences for an edge over competition. While stellar expansion of the e-commerce industry has been an excellent booster to the third-party logistics sector, the COVID-19 pandemics has been indubitably a gamechanger for 3PL service providers. Now that the demand shows no signs of a slowdown anytime soon, the   global third-party logistics market   is  all set for a bullish outlook in the long term. In a new study, Fairfield Market Research intends to provide an insightful analysis of the global third-party logistics industry to reveal how the growth will unfold in the next few years. Deepening technology penetration, especially in form of automation and robotics, will heighten the market outlook to a significant extent, shows research. With several innovative delivery models emerging popular, the market is upbeat in line with the retail industry's expansion. Growth of e-Commerce especially bring in an influx of opportunities, says the report.   Get Sample Copy/TOC of Third-party Logistics Market at     Insights into Segmentation Analysis   The manufacturing and logistics sectors are largely interdependent. In addition to the profound involvement of supply and distribution partners, the manufacturing industry also has a keen nose when it comes to vendor and inventory management, supply chain visibility, customer services, and business process development. 3PL service providers facilitate operations for the industry operators, which promises incessant demand generation from the manufacturing sector that currently accounts for a significant revenue share of the third-party logistics market. Retail also represents one of the key market segments as logistics remains the cornerstone of retailing, especially the thriving e-tailing sector.   Insights into Regional Analysis   Asia Pacific, as the preliminary market research suggests, has the most enabling environment for the third-party logistics market to flourish. Exceptionally high population, growing consumer affluence, mounting inclination toward online shopping, rampant e-Commerce expansion, sharp rise in trading activities, notable pace of technology proliferation, and cheaper labor availability collectively create a strong breeding ground for 3PL service providers. Asian markets will most likely continue contributing the largest revenue shares to the overall market valuation. An advantage in terms of better resource availability, and the thriving manufacturing sector will further unlock business opportunities in the region. Rapid developments in packaging and distribution sectors are also likely to work to the advantage of Asia Pacific's third-party logistics industry. The market here is expected to significantly gain from logistics, transportation, and infrastructural developments.   Leaders in Global Third-party Logistics Space   The report would shed light on some of the major players driving the competition landscape of the global third-party logistics market to reveal their major strategic developments, financial profiles, and competitive information. Some of the potential players that would be covered under this report section include DHL Group, Burris Logistics, Nippon Express, Kuehne + Nagel Inc., BDP International, XPO Logistics Inc., Ceva Logistics, and UPS.   Do You Have Any Query or Specific Requirement? Request for Custom Research:     Global Third-party Logistics Market is Segmented as Below:     By Service     Dedicated Contract Carriage (DCC)/Freight forwarding   Domestic Transportation Management (DTM)   International Transportation Management (ITM)   Warehousing & Distribution (W&D)   Value Added Logistics Services (VALs)    By Transport     Roadways   Railways   Waterways   Airways     By End Use Industry     Manufacturing   Retail   Healthcare   Automotive   Others    By Region     North America   Europe   Asia Pacific   LAMEA     Key Elements Included   In   The Study: Global Third-party Logistics Market     Third-party Logistics Market by Product/Technology/Grade, Application/End-user, and Region   Executive Summary (Opportunity Analysis and Key Trends)   Historical Market Size and Estimates, Value, 2019 - 2022   Market Value at Regional and Country Level, 2023 - 2030   Market Dynamics and Economic Overview   Market Size in Value, Growth Rates, and Forecast Figures, 2023 - 2030   Competitive Intelligence with Financials, Key Developments, and Portfolio of Leading Companies   Regional and Product/Grade/Application/End-user Price Trends Analysis   Value Chain and Five Force's Analysis   Regional/Sub-region/Country Market Size and Trend Analysis   Company Market Share Analysis and Key Player Profiles    Learn More About the Report Inclusions, and Research Methodology:     About Us     fairfield market research   is a UK-based market research provider. Fairfield offers a wide spectrum of services, ranging from customized reports to consulting solutions. With a strong European footprint, Fairfield operates globally and helps businesses navigate through business cycles, with quick responses and multi-pronged approaches. The company values an eye for insightful take on global matters, ably backed by a team of exceptionally experienced researchers. With a strong repository of syndicated market research reports that are continuously published & updated to ensure the ever-changing needs of customers are met with absolute promptness.   Contact     Fairfield Market Research  London, UKUK +44 (0)20 30025888 USA (Toll-free) +1 (844) 3829746   Web  :    Email  :      Twitter  :    LinkedIn  :     Tags third-party logistics market third-party logistics logistics market 3pl tpl supply chain management logistics 3pl logistics Related Links   logistics management services market   retail logistics market   cold chain logistics market   logistics automation market   reverse logistics market   logistics robot market   logistics market   fifth-party logistics (5pl) market   cash logistics market   supply chain management market   agriculture supply chain management market   supply chain security market   autonomous last mile delivery market   last mile delivery market   uk last mile delivery market   food delivery logistic market   MENAFN15052023004107003653ID1106245292 London, May 15, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Evolving consumer behavior has compelled businesses to strive for creating exceptional delivery experiences for an edge over competition. While stellar expansion of the e-commerce industry has been an excellent booster to the third-party logistics sector, the COVID-19 pandemics has been indubitably a gamechanger for 3PL service providers. Now that the demand shows no signs of a slowdown anytime soon, the   global third-party logistics market   is  all set for a bullish outlook in the long term. In a new study, Fairfield Market Research intends to provide an insightful analysis of the global third-party logistics industry to reveal how the growth will unfold in the next few years. Deepening technology penetration, especially in form of automation and robotics, will heighten the market outlook to a significant extent, shows research. With several innovative delivery models emerging popular, the market is upbeat in line with the retail industry's expansion. Growth of e-Commerce especially bring in an influx of opportunities, says the report.   Get Sample Copy/TOC of Third-party Logistics Market at     Insights into Segmentation Analysis   The manufacturing and logistics sectors are largely interdependent. In addition to the profound involvement of supply and distribution partners, the manufacturing industry also has a keen nose when it comes to vendor and inventory management, supply chain visibility, customer services, and business process development. 3PL service providers facilitate operations for the industry operators, which promises incessant demand generation from the manufacturing sector that currently accounts for a significant revenue share of the third-party logistics market. Retail also represents one of the key market segments as logistics remains the cornerstone of retailing, especially the thriving e-tailing sector.   Insights into Regional Analysis   Asia Pacific, as the preliminary market research suggests, has the most enabling environment for the third-party logistics market to flourish. Exceptionally high population, growing consumer affluence, mounting inclination toward online shopping, rampant e-Commerce expansion, sharp rise in trading activities, notable pace of technology proliferation, and cheaper labor availability collectively create a strong breeding ground for 3PL service providers. Asian markets will most likely continue contributing the largest revenue shares to the overall market valuation. An advantage in terms of better resource availability, and the thriving manufacturing sector will further unlock business opportunities in the region. Rapid developments in packaging and distribution sectors are also likely to work to the advantage of Asia Pacific's third-party logistics industry. The market here is expected to significantly gain from logistics, transportation, and infrastructural developments.   Leaders in Global Third-party Logistics Space   The report would shed light on some of the major players driving the competition landscape of the global third-party logistics market to reveal their major strategic developments, financial profiles, and competitive information. Some of the potential players that would be covered under this report section include DHL Group, Burris Logistics, Nippon Express, Kuehne + Nagel Inc., BDP International, XPO Logistics Inc., Ceva Logistics, and UPS.   Do You Have Any Query or Specific Requirement? Request for Custom Research:     Global Third-party Logistics Market is Segmented as Below:     By Service     By Transport     By End Use Industry     By Region     Key Elements Included   In   The Study: Global Third-party Logistics Market     Learn More About the Report Inclusions, and Research Methodology:     About Us     fairfield market research   is a UK-based market research provider. Fairfield offers a wide spectrum of services, ranging from customized reports to consulting solutions. With a strong European footprint, Fairfield operates globally and helps businesses navigate through business cycles, with quick responses and multi-pronged approaches. The company values an eye for insightful take on global matters, ably backed by a team of exceptionally experienced researchers. With a strong repository of syndicated market research reports that are continuously published & updated to ensure the ever-changing needs of customers are met with absolute promptness.   Contact     Fairfield Market Research  London, UKUK +44 (0)20 30025888 USA (Toll-free) +1 (844) 3829746   Web  :    Email  :      Twitter  :    LinkedIn  :    MENAFN15052023004107003653ID1106245292 MENAFN15052023004107003653ID1106245292 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN