Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Credit repair focuses on disputing inaccurate information on your credit report and going through the dispute process for you. While disputing items on your credit report is something that you can do yourself for no cost, credit repair companies can give you some extra help if needed. Ahead, CNBC Select rounds up the top five credit repair companies based on fees, customer satisfaction ratings, company history, availability and money-back guarantees. (Read more about our methodology below.) First work fee: $195 for clean slate package, or $99 for credit remodel and credit polish packages Monthly fee: $119.99 for clean slate package, $99.99 for credit remodel package, $79.99 for credit polish package  Credit Saint offers three packages for credit repair services and a 90-day money-back guarantee for services. It has received an A rating and is accredited by the Better Business Bureau. No Who's this for: If you want to improve your credit with a credit restoration company, Credit Saint offers several levels of service and good ratings for customer satisfaction. Standout features: The company offers a free consultation for new customers and backs its work with a 90-day money-back guarantee. [ Jump to more details ]  First work fee: $19  Monthly fee: $79 for standard, $99 for premium. The company also offers a six-month flat-fee option for $499. The Credit People's Credit Report Repair service is relatively affordable compared to other programs in the space. Even the most basic package (the standard package) includes unlimited challenges to all three credit bureaus. Upgrading to the premium package includes escalated disputes and monthly credit score reports and score refreshes.   Who's this for: The Credit People offers three tiers of affordable service, and all three offer the ability to make unlimited challenges across all three credit bureaus. Standout features: A satisfaction guarantee can help you waive your current month's fee and be refunded for the previous monthly service fee if you're not satisfied. [ Jump to more details ]  First work fee: $119 for money management and prosperity packages, $149 for success plus package Monthly fee: $69 for money management package, $119 for prosperity package, $149 for success plus package The Credit Pros is an AI-driven credit repair company that has been in business for over a decade. It offers unlimited disputes and access to a variety of letters to creditors for some packages. Yes Who's this for: The Credit Pros is driven by artificial intelligence and offers three tiers of service for credit repair programs. Standout features: All plans include credit monitoring at no additional charge, making it easier to spot potential fraud. Though it's not accredited by the Better Business Bureau (BBB), it has earned 3.94 out of 5 stars for customer satisfaction ratings with 150 reviews, the highest of the credit repair companies we reviewed. [ Jump to more details ]  First work fee: Starts at $98 Monthly fee: $98 for a single enrollee, $69 per person in a couple ($138) MSI Credit Solutions offers credit repair services at monthly fees lower than many other companies we reviewed. Its one program tier offers unlimited disputes with credit bureaus and a one-on-one consultation with a credit expert.  No Who's this for: MSI Credit Solutions can provide tailored service if you're seeking a credit repair service that considers your individual needs. Standout features: MSI Credit Solutions is transparent on its website, and offers customers a written agreement before starting services. A free consultation can also help you decide the best course of action. Instead of charging a flat fee to everyone, MSI tailors your first work fee to your situation, depending on the number of negative line items on your credit report and their recency and amounts. [ Jump to more details ]  First work fee: $99 for individuals, $149 for couples Monthly fee: $99 for individuals, $149 for couples Sky Blue Credit Repair has been in business since 1989, and offers one package for credit repair services. The package includes custom disputes, coaches available for calls, and a 35-day dispute cycle. No Who's this for: Sky Blue offers some of the most affordable rates to add a spouse or partner to the credit repair program. While other companies charge a second fee to add another person, Sky Blue offers this option for a discounted $40. Standout features: Unlike most other companies, Sky Blue only offers one credit repair service option so you won't need to upgrade to more expensive packages to unlock additional features. [ Jump to more details ]  Credit Saint has been in the credit repair business for over 15 years. It has an A rating with the BBB, and has strong customer satisfaction ratings with the bureau as well. First work fee Monthly fee [ Return to summary ]  The Credit People was founded in 2001 and has helped over 100,000 people with their credit scores and reports. First work fee $19 Monthly fee $99 for the standard package and $119 for the premium package. The company also offers a six-month flat-fee option for $599. [ Return to summary ]  The Credit Pros has been in business for 14 years and works with customers in 46 states. First work fee Monthly fee [ Return to summary ]  MSI Credit Solutions has been helping Americans improve their credit since 2006, and works in all states except Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, South Carolina and Vermont. First work fee Starts at $98 Monthly fee $98 for a single enrollee, $69 per person when enrolling as a couple ($138) [ Return to summary ]  Sky Blue Credit has been in the credit repair industry since 1989, which is the longest of the companies we considered. It also maintains a 3.67 out of 5 stars with the BBB, though it's not accredited by the organization. First work fee Monthly fee [ Return to summary ]  Credit repair relies on disputing negative, inaccurate items on your credit report. Credit repair companies work on your behalf to remove this information by communicating with the three credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax and TransUnion) and/or financial companies, like your bank or a debt collector, to dispute the errors. This differs from services like credit counseling, which is generally organized by a non-profit organization and can help you develop a budget, get copies of your credit report and create debt management plans. A good credit repair company should never ask for payment upfront, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a government agency aimed at protecting consumers. Credit repair companies can help you do some of the work to dispute negative items on your credit report. If it's overwhelming for you to do alone, a company like this could help. However, the CFPB warns that negative information can't be removed if it's accurate, which could mean that a credit repair company won't be able to do much if that's the case. Credit repair companies generally charge an upfront fee and a monthly fee for their services. The upfront fee is usually between $79 and $195 and the monthly fee ranges from $69 to $149 per month for the companies we reviewed. If you'd like to try raising your credit score on your own, there are ways you can dispute errors on your credit report on your own, set up a system to pay your bills on time each month and pay off debt to raise your credit score on your own. According to our data, some of the best credit repair companies include Credit Saint, The Credit Pros, Sky Blue Credit Repair, MSI Credit Solutions and The Credit People. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every credit repair review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of credit repair services. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best credit repair companies. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To find the best credit repair companies, CNBC Select analyzed more than a dozen U.S. credit repair companies. When narrowing down and ranking the best credit repair companies, we focused on the following features: After reviewing the features listed above, we sorted our recommendations by best for affordability, best for money-back guarantee, best for customization, best for customer satisfaction and best for couples. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.