Investing apps help anyone access the stock market to make trades. Alpaca, a San Mateo-based startup, offers stock and crypto brokerage trading services via API that enables investing fintech companies and others to embed this functionality into their apps. Today, the startup announced it has secured $15 million in the form of a convertible note from Japanese financial firm SBI Group.  The strategic investment, which brings the Y Combinator-backed startup's total raised to $120 million since its inception in 2015, will allow Alpaca to speed up its expansion in Asia, CEO of Alpaca Yoshi Yokokawa told TechCrunch.  The startup's B2B2C model serves more than 5 million end-users via more than 100 corporation partners in 30 countries, including Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Thailand and India, Yokokawa said, adding that nearly 20% of its clients are based in Asia, primarily Southeast Asia. Alpaca currently has two clients in Japan -- SBI and Woodstock-- but expects a few more users from Japan after the strategic investment from SBI, which has more than $2.6 billion in assets under management in venture capital and private equity investment.  "SBI Group has the biggest network amongst financial institutions in Japan and has been expanding to Southeast Asia recently," Yokokawa said.  Thailand-based digital bank Dime and Singaporean investment app Syfe use Alpaca's brokerage platform to offer U.S. stock trading services to their end users, Yokokawa noted. On top of that, the outfit recently received a broker-dealer license from Japan's Financial Services Agency. The permit allows Alpaca to offer U.S. stock trading services to enterprises' end users in Japan.  Alpaca plans to launch new products and services for the U.S. business, such as options, bonds, mutual bonds and individual retirement account accounts, Yokokawa said.  Since its $50 million Series B in 2021, the company's revenue has increased by 17 times, and the number of investing apps on its platform has grown 15 times to around 150, Yokokawa said. He declined to provide the baseline of the revenue, which the company generates via a variety of methods, including transactions from trading fees, foreign exchange fees, SaaS recurring and more. The number of staff was reduced to 150 from 175 people last year to operate the company efficiently, Yokokawa told TechCrunch.  When asked about its crypto API that Alpaca launched in October 2021, two months after its Series B round, its crypto business still does not produce significant revenue. Still, the company expects the crypto API would grow as the crypto market recovers, the CEO said. Alpaca's crypto API enables businesses and developers to trade crypto and stocks and build apps that offer crypto and stock investing services in one API.  Alpaca has built a community for developers. The CEO said tens of thousands of monthly active developers can try out Alpaca's product for free, writing sample code to interact with its brokerage platform via API. Its previous backers include Portage Ventures, Spark Capital, Tribe Capital, Social Leverage, Horizons Ventures, Unbound, Elefund, Positive Sum and Y Combinator. Note: The company corrected the figure of revenue increase and the growth in the number of investment apps on its platform for miscalculation in the seventh paragraph.   New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season.