You don't need to move to San Francisco to launch a startup, but working here does have some advantages: moderate weather, natural beauty, great food, and sure, the world's largest concentration of venture capital. Y Combinator's Demo Day took place this week, and although the event itself was virtual-only, 86% of the founders in YC's winter 2023 batch lived in SF while participating. The ongoing AI boom is a contributing factor: 54 of the 282 companies in this cohort "are specifically building generative AI startups," reported Natasha Mascarenhas. Full TechCrunch+ articles are only available to members Use discount code TCPLUSROUNDUP to save 20% off a one- or two-year subscription In keeping with tradition, TechCrunch staffers selected their favorites from the latest batch. Please note that these are for entertainment purposes only, as "we’re not offering investing advice or recommending anyone join or back a startup." Thanks very much for reading. Have a great weekend! Walter Thompson Editorial Manager, TechCrunch+ @yourprotagonist Our favorite startups from YC’s Winter 2023 Demo Day — Part 1 Our favorite startups from YC’s Winter 2023 Demo Day — Part 2 Image Credits: Kinga Krzeminska (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Thanks in large part to Gen Z's interest in sustainable shopping, recommerce is soaring to new heights, and VCs are looking for the come up. Since Etsy went public in 2015, companies like Poshmark, The RealReal and thredUP followed suit, attracting even more investors to the sector. Last year, VCs flowed approximately $6 billion to resale platforms, according to Brian Schwarzbach, an investor with Cathay Innovation. In a post for TC+, he explores three recommerce areas that are attracting VC interest and shares "some food for thought for founders building startups in this (re)emerging space." VCs to recommerce startups: Let’s pop some tags Image Credits: Overearth / Getty Images America's long-standing wealth gap between white and Black households contributes to the lack of diversity among startup founders. Median liquid wealth for a Black family in the U.S. is $3,630, but that figure soars to $79,000 for a white family. As a result, "the average Black founder raises less than around $1,000 from family and friends," reports Dominic-Madori Davis. Since the average friends and family round is $23,000, "they’d need to secure the entire liquid wealth of six Black families” for parity, according to a white paper by venture fund Fifth Star. Funds offering ‘friends and family’ checks could bring the change underrepresented founders need Image Credits: Smalls (opens in a new window) Subscription cat food startup Smalls has raised $34 million since launching in 2017. Now, the company has 50 employees, plans to open a cat café and is eyeing an expansion into retail. Its founders shared their Series B deck with TC+, minus "specific details to the company’s valuation and current revenue." Cover slide Market slide Problem slide Mission slide (“We are here to make 9 lives 10”) Competition slide Product slide How it works slide Why Now interstitial slide Business metrics slide Milestones slide Team slide Use of Funds slide Performance interstitial slide CAC slide Go to market/growth channels slide Value Prop slide Churn analysis slide LTV slide Future Plans interstitial slide Market extension slide part 1 Market extension slide part 2 LTV extension slide The Ask and target milestones slide Thank you slide Pitch Deck Teardown: Smalls’ $19M Series B deck Image Credits: Viaframe (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Drawing on data from Carta's "First Cut – State of Private Markets: Q1 2023" report, Anna Heim and Alex Wilhelm crunched the numbers to get a feel for the early-stage VC landscape. Taking into account "median round sizes and deal values," they found that pre-money valuations for seed-stage startups fell slightly, but Series A, B and C rounds "seem to be showing signs of recovery." As YC launches new batch, here’s how the early-stage venture market is faring today Image Credits: Javier Ghersi / Getty Images A market update report from Redpoint Ventures contains insights for Series B and C founders who are planning to fundraise this year, writes Alex Wilhelm. "Middle-stage startups today still look rather expensive," he writes. "Either the stock market needs to recover some of its juice, or startup prices need to fall more for things to get back to 'normal.'" What’s a fair price premium for startup shares? Image Credits: Esa Hiltula (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Cybersecurity product teams operate under unique pressure, according to investor Ross Haleliuk. It's not just that they're working in a crowded market — "it is an incredibly dynamic space with the landscape sometimes shifting overnight." Since many startups lack frameworks for building customer relationships and refining model metrics, Haleliuk, who's also head of product at his own company, shares tactics that will help security vendors better "understand their target market and the kind of solutions they are looking for." 6 common challenges facing cybersecurity teams and how to overcome them Image Credits: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch Dear Sophie, I was recently laid off.  I’m co-founding a cleantech startup with two of my former colleagues, who were also laid off. Both of my co-founders are on H-1Bs and had green cards in the works with our former company. I’m a U.S. citizen. What do we need to do to transfer their H-1Bs and green cards to our startup? Based on your experience, do investors care about the amount of money a startup spends on visas and green cards for their founders? — First-time Founder Ask Sophie: How do we transfer H-1Bs and green cards to our startup? Image Credits: Michael Loccisano (opens in a new window) / Getty Images (Image has been modified) Two TechCrunch podcasts, Chain Reaction and Found, have been nominated for Webby Awards in the Best Technology Podcast category. Cast your vote before Thursday, April 20! New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.