Paul Graham, the co-founder of startup accelerator Y Combinator, recently expressed his concerns over the role of generative artificial intelligence (AI) in degrading the quality of web content, Business Insider reported. Graham took to X, formerly known as Twitter, where he noted that even simple web searches now yield unclear and untrustworthy results. He attributed the issue to the increasing presence of AI-generated content which he referred to as “SEO-bait.” I'm looking up a topic online (how hot a pizza oven should be) and I've noticed I'm looking at the dates of the articles to try to find stuff that isn't AI-generated SEO-bait. See Also: When Paul Graham Said Microsoft Challenging Google With ChatGPT Was More Surprising Than ‘100-Year Pandemic’ This marks a significant change in Graham’s stance on AI. Just a few weeks ago, he lauded AI as “the solution to far more problems than its developers even knew existed” and called it “the first big wave of technology” in many years. The rapid expansion of Generative AI tools, following the launch of OpenAI’s ChatGPT less than a year ago, has raised multiple issues. Concerns over authorship have surfaced, as there is currently no regulation mandating the labeling of AI-created content. This may change if the AI Act, a regulatory proposal currently before the European Parliament, passes later this year. There are also growing worries about the quality of AI-generated content, as these tools often present incorrect information in an authoritative manner. This, coupled with potential legal and ownership rights issues, has led some tech figures to associate AI’s impact on web content with “nuclear fallout.” Read Next: The housing market is ripe for a revolution and one $75 million startup is looking to be the key player in affordable alternatives. Led by a CEO with two successful IPOs on his resume, it's already making headlines. Image Credits – Shuttertcock 
            Engineered by Benzinga Neuro, Edited by 
Pooja Rajkumari

 
            The GPT-4 Benzinga Neuro content generation system exploits the extensive Benzinga Ecosystem, including native data, APIs, and more to create comprehensive and timely stories for you.
            Learn more.
 © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.