Rockville, Aug.  08, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Fact.MR, a market research and competitive intelligence provider, in its newly published research report, reveals that the global Hot Water Circulation Pump Market stands at US$ 2.85 billion in 2023 and is projected to increase at a CAGR of 5.5% through 2033. Rapidly rising number of people opting for different types of hot shower products is predicted to fuel the demand for hot water circulation pumps. Use of hot water circulators reduces the time required for water heating and also helps in saving money invested for heating purposes. Subsidies, incentives, and policies are some popular strategies adopted by various governments to encourage the use of energy-efficient products. For More Insights into the Market, Request a Sample of this Report:https://www.factmr.com/connectus/sample?flag=S&rep_id=8775 Hot water circulation pumps are used to circulate hot water in different industries and homes by offering instant hot water facilities. Various consumers are becoming more conscious about their energy consumption and are looking for environmentally friendly and energy-efficient products. This change is in response to rising concerns about environmental sustainability, which is further boosting the demand for hot water circulating pumps. Key Takeaways from Market Study "Rising global awareness about water wastage and increasing expenditure of consumers on waste minimization and energy-efficient products are generating lucrative opportunities for hot water circulation pump manufacturers," says a Fact.MR analyst. Building Codes Necessitating Use of Eco-friendly and Energy-saving Products Building codes are predicted to serve as one of the prominent drivers to boost demand for hot water circulation pumps. These codes regulate the renovation of existing buildings and the construction of new buildings to ensure they match specific energy efficiency, sustainability, and safety standards. Building codes are estimated to offer lucrative opportunities for players in numerous ways, including incentives for eco-friendly products, energy-efficient requirements, and green building certifications. Certifications such as ENERGY STAR or LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) are also included in building codes. Hot water circulation pumps play a significant role to achieve certifications with improvement in energy efficiency and reduction in energy use. Get Customization on this Report for Specific Research Solutions:https://www.factmr.com/connectus/sample?flag=RC&rep_id=8775 Lack of Awareness and Resources in Developing Regions A lack of understanding and reduced awareness about hot water circulation pumps in some areas from developing regions are predicted to hinder market expansion. Certain consumers from these regions are not familiar with the advantages of these pumps. Moreover, the low income of people from these regions is also projected to limit demand for hot water circulation pumps. These products are sometimes seen as luxury products instead of necessary electronic appliances, which negatively affects the demand for hot water circulation pumps. Limited access to resources and technology for the installation and maintenance of these pumps is also curbing expansion opportunities. Competitive Landscape Quality control, strengthening supply chain management systems, maintaining product standards, etc., are some steps taken by companies operating in the hot water circulation pump market. Production of reliable and high-quality hot water circulation pumps to match market requirements is anticipated to open up lucrative opportunities for players. For instance: Key Market Players Leading manufacturers of hot water circulation pumps include Grundfos Holding A/S, Xylem Inc., Wilo SE, Flowserve Corporation, Calpeda SA, Armstrong Fluid Technology, US Solar Pumps, SAER Elettropompe SpA, Shimge Pump Industry Group Co., Ltd., TACO INC., Taizhou Dalang Pump Industry Co., Ltd., Ningbo Yinzhou H.T. Industry Co. Ltd., LEO PUMP, Zhejiang Yonjou Technology Co., Ltd., and Fujian ELESTAR Motor Co., Ltd. More Valuable Insights on Offer Fact.MR, in its new offering, presents an unbiased analysis of the hot water circulation pump market, presenting historical demand data (2018 to 2022) and forecast statistics for the period (2023 to 2033). The study divulges essential insights into the market based on type (single-stage pumps, multistage pumps), material (stainless steel, cast iron, bronze), application and (residential, industrial, commercial), across five major regions of the world (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, and MEA). Most Trending Reports in Industrial Goods Industry: Heat Pump Water Heater Market: Heat pump water heater Market demand is expanding and is poised to grow at a CAGR of 7.9% during the forecast period and reach a valuation of US$ 3.4 billion in 2033 from US$ 1.6 billion in 2023. Europe Air Source Heat Pump Market: The Europe air source heat pump market is valued to be worth US$ 14.01 Billion for 2022 and during the forecast period it is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 7.8%. In 2032, the European market for air source heat pump is expected to be worth US$ 29.69 Billion. Heat Pump Market: In FY 2021, the heat pump market reached US $65.4 billion and is expected to register a CAGR of 8.0% in 2022, ending at US $71.29 billion. Moreover, the growth is expected to accelerate at a whopping CAGR of 9.0% by 2032. Vacuum Pumps Market: The vacuum pumps market has likely to garner a market value of US$ 719.09 Mn in 2022, anticipated to register a positive CAGR of 7% in the forecast period 2022-2032 and reach a value of US$ 1,415 Mn. Geothermal Heat Pumps Market: Worldwide shipments of geothermal heat pumps accounted for a value of US$ 115.74 Billion in 2020, and this market valuation is expected to surge to US$ 505.5 Billion by the end of 2031. Global geothermal heat pump consumption is projected to increase at a stellar CAGR of 13.1% over the decade. About Us: We are a trusted research partner of 80% of fortune 1000 companies across the globe. We are consistently growing in the field of market research with more than 1000 reports published every year. The dedicated team of 400-plus analysts and consultants is committed to achieving the utmost level of our client's satisfaction. Contact:US Sales Office:11140 Rockville PikeSuite 400Rockville, MD 20852United StatesTel: +1 (628) 251-1583Sales Team : sales@factmr.comFollow Us: LinkedIn | Twitter | YouTube   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.