More in 
                    The main filtration-related M&A deals announced during the first three months of 2023 are listed here, with links to the original stories on www.filtsep.com.
                 • Grundfos adds to Water Treatment Solutions platform MECO, a Grundfos company, acquired San Diego, California-based Water Works Inc to strengthen its ultrapure water treatment portfolio for life science and biopharmaceutical customers.   • Ingersoll Rand acquires SPX Flow’s Air Treatment business Ingersoll Rand Inc completed the acquisition of SPX Flow’s Air Treatment business in an all-cash transaction of approximately US$525 million.  The Air Treatment business, which is now part of Ingersoll Rand’s Industrial Technologies and Services (IT&S) segment, brought a highly complementary product portfolio of energy efficient compressed air dryers, filters and other consumables, with brands including Hankison, Pneumatic Products, Jemaco, Deltech and Delair.   • Xylem to acquire Evoqua in US$7.5bn deal Xylem Inc entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Evoqua Water Technologies Corp, the water treatment solutions and services company, in a US$7.5 billion all-stock transaction.   • Dutch flow technology company joins Indutrade Indutrade bought the Dutch trading company Siersema Komponenten Service BV (SKS). Waalwijk-based SKS specialises in process components, including valves, tubes, pumps, filters and heat exchangers, for the food & beverage and pharmaceutical process industries. Products are sold primarily to customers in the Benelux markets. The company has annual sales of approximately €35 million and 50 employees.   • Evoqua to divest its carbon reactivation and slurry services business to Desotec Evoqua Water Technologies entered into a definitive agreement to divest its carbon reactivation and slurry operations to Desotec, a European provider of industrial mobile filtration solutions based on activated carbon technology.   • Donaldson buys early-stage biotech company Donaldson Co Inc acquired Isolere Bio Inc, an early-stage biotechnology company that develops novel and proprietary IsoTag reagents and accompanying filtration processes used for the purification and streamlined manufacturing of biopharmaceuticals.   • Axius Water adds to platform Axius Water acquired Napier-Reid, a supplier of custom-engineered water and wastewater treatment systems located in Ontario, Canada. Napier-Reid carries a full range of products for municipal and industrial wastewater treatment, from SBR (Sequencing Batch Reactor), RBC (Rotating Biological Contactor), DAF (Dissolved Air Flotation) and gravity clarifiers, to sludge heat exchangers, and grit removal systems. On the clean water side, Napier-Reid also designs and supplies gravity and pressure filtration trains, membrane filtration and ion exchange systems for drinking water and industrial process water applications.   • Mott buys US filtration company Digested Organics Mott Corp acquired Digested Organics, a Michigan, USA-based engineering company that manufactures advanced filtration solutions to help customers reduce wastewater disposal costs, reclaim clean water for reuse, and produce valuable co-products. Free access to this content is for qualifying individuals only. Corporate and institutional access requires an appropriate license or subscription. For more information contact institutions@markallengroup.com