After Ross Chanin's grandfather died, Chanin mourned not only him, but the fact that he'd never gotten a chance to hear more about his grandfather's life. Over a conversation with a journalist friend, George Quraishi, it became clear to Chanin that Quraishi's skill set -- interviewing and audio editing -- could be conducive to capturing a family's history. Chanin and Quraishi started conducting interviews for friends and family and recruited software engineers Martin Gouy and Moncef Biaz to build apps to make it easier to record remote interviews and play them back on the web. Convinced that they had the seeds of a business, Chanin and Quraishi decided to apply to Y Combinator and were accepted into the Summer 2020 batch. Today, their startup -- Artifact -- has over 10,000 customers across 15 English-, Spanish- and French-speaking countries. It's raised $5 million inclusive of a seed round led by GV, which had participation from Atento Capital, Goodwater and Offline Ventures and notable angels such as Y Combinator CEO Michael Seibel, Twitch CEO Emmett Shear and former Blizzard CEO Michael Morhaime.  "Interviews are incredible storytelling spaces, but they’re generally reserved for the rich and powerful and are not about our parents, grandparents and children," Chanin told TechCrunch in an email interview. "Our dream is that Artifact will become the place where families the world over tell and experience their stories." Artifact charges customers $149 to have an interviewer (mostly moonlighting journalists, according to Chanin) conduct an interview with a family member. Packages include one interview and an edit with a custom introduction, sound mixing by an audio engineer and a web page for listening and adding photos. It's a four-step process. First, Artifact customers tell the interviewer who they'll be interviewing and what they'll discuss. Then, Artifact invites the interviewee to choose a day and time for the interview, which happens via phone or videoconferencing. The resulting recording -- usually 30 minutes in length, give or take 15 minutes -- is edited down to a 20-minute "episode," which can be shared via the web with loved ones or publicly. Artifact aims to turn around episodes within five business days of an interview. Up to two guests are included in the price of a single interview, with a $35-per-guest charge for additional interviewees. "The people in your life may not be natural storytellers, but when they’re guided by professional interviewers, their stories become heirloom-quality episodes that live in your family’s private account," Chanin said. "Once there, it’s easy to add photos and then securely share your Artifacts with the people you love." Image Credits: Artifact That's a lot of sensitive info to upload to the cloud. But Chanin was adamant that Artifact doesn't share personal data with third parties without "explicit and affirmative" consent from users. The platform stores data for as long as a person maintains an account, although users can delete recordings, notes and photos at any time.  Artifact is one startup among many delivering professional interviewing and audio biography services tailored to families. For instance, Vita's app lets family members record audio stories and transcribe the text and even hand-select accompanying family photos, recipes and other media content for posterity if they so choose. Tales and Origin offer packages along the same vein while StoryWorth and StoryCorps are more self-service in nature, providing users with the tools to conduct interviews themselves including suggested lines of questioning. So what sets Artifact apart? Chanin argues it "fills a need that remains unaddressed." "The large genealogy platforms do incredible work, helping families trace their lineage and build family trees. Cloud photo and print apps make experiencing family photos easy and fun. [But] while it’s one thing to trace your family’s history, it’s another entirely to record it in the voices of the people themselves," Chanin said. "It’s the conversation spaces with our professional interviewers that create the magic -- the intonations of voice, laughter and emotion that can make it feel like the person we’re listening to is sitting right there in the room with us." Artifact is also unique in that it operates on a marketplace model, connecting customers with freelance interviewers, audio editors and sound engineers who piece together each audio biography. The compensation structure for contractors wasn't immediately clear in our interview with Chanin; we've asked Artifact for clarification. In another differentiator, Artifact has dipped a toe into the corporate market, offering custom podcast creation services to companies, academic institutions and nonprofits. As with its biography business, Artifact's enterprise-focused offering pairs customers with an interviewer who they instruct to talk to people about certain subjects, with Artifact handling all the scheduling, remote interviewing and editing. To date, Artifact has produced podcasts for Clipboard Health, Onfleet, Yale, the University of Chicago and the Muscular Dystrophy Association, Chanin claims. In a bid to remain ahead of rivals, Artifact aims to embrace merging AI technologies to further personalize the experience for its family biography customers. As customers upload photos and videos to their accounts, Artifact will soon begin marrying the images and videos to what's being spoken about in an interview, Chanin says -- no curation required. "So, this is taking different types of media -- image, video and text -- and finding connections between them, then surfacing the result to the customer. We are calling this the 'Sitback Experience,' where users will simply click play, sit back and listen to people you love telling stories while relevant imagery and video play across the screen. It'll be like a movie or a Ken Burns documentary about your family." Beyond the Sitback Experience, Artifact plans to launch Family Spaces, a dashboard where account holders will be able to add family members in a way that makes it clear which stories the platform's recorded for individual people. The swift development roadmap will keep Artifact a step beyond rivals, Chanin asserts, while delivering top-requested improvements to the user base. That'll be key. Aside from the nascent enterprise venture, Artifact's growth will depend on convincing existing customers to buy additional packages and new users to join in the first place. "The pandemic reminded all of us that life is precious and that the people we love must never be taken for granted. In that way, Artifact provided a vehicle for many of our early adopters to act on those feelings and record family stories," Chanin added. "From day one, we’ve built Artifact lean and as a service that provides immediate value to our customers -- that our customers pay for. So in many respects, we launched the company the old fashioned way: introducing a new solution to a universal problem, learning from our customers and not focusing on growth at all costs." Chanin wouldn't disclose Artifact's burn rate. But he claimed that the company is "well capitalized," with cash on hand for years. Artifact currently has a 14-person team (excepting the hundreds of freelancers in its marketplace) based in San Francisco and expects to "at least" double headcount over the next 12 months. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.