Not in the UK? You can change your location here. Find out everything you need to know about the current travel requirements for Japan in 2022 and 2023. We scour all the official sources, so you don’t have to.   Find out everything you need to know about the current travel requirements for Japan in 2022 and 2023. We scour all the official sources, so you don’t have to.  Explore our latest brochure for Japan holiday inspiration Last updated 04 October 2023, 00:00 BST 
Summary 
Since October 2022, Japan is fully open without the requirement for a visa for most visitors and, since April 2023, vaccination certificates and pre-departure tests are no longer required either. Read on to find out more! 

Who is currently allowed to travel to Japan?
What is required to travel to Japan and what about visas?
Do I need to be vaccinated to go to Japan?
Do I need to do a pre-departure Covid test?
Do I need to download any tracing apps in Japan?
What measures are in place when I arrive in Japan?
Will I need to wear a mask in Japan?
Can I use public transport in Japan?
Are there any restrictions on where tourists can travel?
What happens if I get Covid during the trip?
More information

 Last updated 04 October 2023, 00:00 BST  Summary  Since October 2022, Japan is fully open without the requirement for a visa for most visitors and, since April 2023, vaccination certificates and pre-departure tests are no longer required either. Read on to find out more!   Entry to Japan is back to pre-pandemic visa arrangements. In other words, passport holders of countries including the UK, most of Europe, USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand can make use of Japan's 90-day visa-free short term stay arrangements just as it was before March 2020. 
During the pandemic, the Japanese government separated all countries into 'red', 'yellow' and 'blue' categories, based on covid safety levels. The 98 “low risk” countries were categorized as “blue” - this included Australia, Britain, most of Europe, the US and Canada. Travellers from these areas did not need to self-isolate or test upon arrival. This has since been rolled back to pre-Covid entry conditions, i.e. normal entry requirements and visa conditions as stipulated between Japan and each individual country. 
 Entry to Japan is back to pre-pandemic visa arrangements. In other words, passport holders of countries including the UK, most of Europe, USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand can make use of Japan's 90-day visa-free short term stay arrangements just as it was before March 2020.  During the pandemic, the Japanese government separated all countries into 'red', 'yellow' and 'blue' categories, based on covid safety levels. The 98 “low risk” countries were categorized as “blue” - this included Australia, Britain, most of Europe, the US and Canada. Travellers from these areas did not need to self-isolate or test upon arrival. This has since been rolled back to pre-Covid entry conditions, i.e. normal entry requirements and visa conditions as stipulated between Japan and each individual country.   Travel is back to pre-pandemic conditions, and subject to pre-pandemic visa and visa waiver policies. In short, for countries like the UK, most of Europe, Canada, the US, Australia and New Zealand, you can stay up to 90 days without needing to apply for a visa. Additionally, vaccination proof and pre-departure testing are no longer required. 
In other words, there are no more requirements to travel to Japan other than ensuring having a passport with enough validity and a visa waiver agreement between your country and Japan, as is the case for the countries mentioned above. 
The points below are optional, but we recommend to: 

Preregister on Visit Japan Web for smoother entry into Japan - both the customs and immigration declarations can be made online in advance.
Have a travel insurance plan that covers covid-related medical expenses and disruptions.

For more information on entering Japan, you can refer to the Japan National Tourism Organization’s (JNTO) website : General Checklist For Traveling to Japan 
 Travel is back to pre-pandemic conditions, and subject to pre-pandemic visa and visa waiver policies. In short, for countries like the UK, most of Europe, Canada, the US, Australia and New Zealand, you can stay up to 90 days without needing to apply for a visa. Additionally, vaccination proof and pre-departure testing are no longer required.  In other words, there are no more requirements to travel to Japan other than ensuring having a passport with enough validity and a visa waiver agreement between your country and Japan, as is the case for the countries mentioned above.  The points below are optional, but we recommend to:  For more information on entering Japan, you can refer to the Japan National Tourism Organization’s (JNTO) website : General Checklist For Traveling to Japan   There is no vaccination requirement to enter Japan. Additionally, vaccination proof or pre-departure testing are no longer required either. 
 There is no vaccination requirement to enter Japan. Additionally, vaccination proof or pre-departure testing are no longer required either.   From 07 September 2022, triple vaccinated visitors did not need to do a pre-departure test. Since 29 April 2023, all visitors can travel to Japan regardless of vaccination status, as vaccination proof and pre-departure tests are no longer required. 
We can advise further if you have any questions - just let us know! 
 From 07 September 2022, triple vaccinated visitors did not need to do a pre-departure test. Since 29 April 2023, all visitors can travel to Japan regardless of vaccination status, as vaccination proof and pre-departure tests are no longer required.  We can advise further if you have any questions - just let us know!   There is no requirement to download any apps to enter Japan. 
 There is no requirement to download any apps to enter Japan.   Japanese are travelling in their country and life in Japan is back to normal with restaurants and sights welcoming back visitors. 
The Japanese government originally established a set of etiquette guidelines for tourists and locals encouraging widespread use of masks, which has now shifted towards a less strict and more personal approach. You’ll notice many people -though not all- will be wearing masks and there will be no shortage of hand sanitizer in public places. You will also see markers on shop/store floors to encourage social distancing and some digital thermometers at entrances, both implemented at the height of the pandemic but no longer actively enforced. 
The Japan Tourism Agency has put together a nice set of graphics to illustrate the current travel etiquette guidelines:
 Japanese are travelling in their country and life in Japan is back to normal with restaurants and sights welcoming back visitors.  The Japanese government originally established a set of etiquette guidelines for tourists and locals encouraging widespread use of masks, which has now shifted towards a less strict and more personal approach. You’ll notice many people -though not all- will be wearing masks and there will be no shortage of hand sanitizer in public places. You will also see markers on shop/store floors to encourage social distancing and some digital thermometers at entrances, both implemented at the height of the pandemic but no longer actively enforced.  The Japan Tourism Agency has put together a nice set of graphics to illustrate the current travel etiquette guidelines:  Not anymore! Though it is recommended by the government to do so at medical facilities, nursing homes and crowded trains and buses. Additionally, some venues may require you to wear a mask, so always carry one just in case! (In practice, we haven't found many places doing this.)
As you will see when you arrive in Japan, mask wearing is quite widespread, though not everyone will be wearing one. Even at the height of the pandemic, all Covid "requirements" were actually advisory rather than set in law.
Starting in May 2022, the Japanese government had slowly been easing restrictions on mask wearing, allowing more leeway to take masks off when outdoors or in places that have good ventilation, proper social distancing, or a general lack of conversation. It was already normal to wear a mask if you were feeling under the weather even before Covid, and after the height of the pandemic wearing a mask almost became a form of politeness in Japan. While walking around you will notice that many people are choosing to continue wearing masks, though not everyone! It's becoming more and more acceptable to not be wearing a mask, especially after the government announced they would officially put Covid-19 in the same category as the common flu. 
The current guidelines on wearing masks can be seen here.  
 Not anymore! Though it is recommended by the government to do so at medical facilities, nursing homes and crowded trains and buses. Additionally, some venues may require you to wear a mask, so always carry one just in case! (In practice, we haven't found many places doing this.) As you will see when you arrive in Japan, mask wearing is quite widespread, though not everyone will be wearing one. Even at the height of the pandemic, all Covid "requirements" were actually advisory rather than set in law. Starting in May 2022, the Japanese government had slowly been easing restrictions on mask wearing, allowing more leeway to take masks off when outdoors or in places that have good ventilation, proper social distancing, or a general lack of conversation. It was already normal to wear a mask if you were feeling under the weather even before Covid, and after the height of the pandemic wearing a mask almost became a form of politeness in Japan. While walking around you will notice that many people are choosing to continue wearing masks, though not everyone! It's becoming more and more acceptable to not be wearing a mask, especially after the government announced they would officially put Covid-19 in the same category as the common flu.  The current guidelines on wearing masks can be seen here.    Yes! Wearing a mask is optional, but recommended at crowded times. 
 Yes! Wearing a mask is optional, but recommended at crowded times.   No - There are no restrictions in this regard.
 No - There are no restrictions in this regard.  Should you contract coronavirus during your travels, you will have either your tour leader or our 24/7 customer support team available to assist you. We have protocols in place to ensure that any testing, self-isolation, or doctor visits will be conducted to ensure everyone’s trip is as smooth and safe as possible.
 Should you contract coronavirus during your travels, you will have either your tour leader or our 24/7 customer support team available to assist you. We have protocols in place to ensure that any testing, self-isolation, or doctor visits will be conducted to ensure everyone’s trip is as smooth and safe as possible.  To learn more about how InsideJapan is prepared now that travel is officially resuming, head to our Travel with Confidence page.
We have summarised the current government advisories of various countries below. To find out more, click on each header to visit the website for your location. 
UK FCO Travel Advice - Japan
No quarantine, testing or locator forms are required for entrants from the UK, regardless of vaccination status. 
U.S. Department of State - Travel.State.Gov
Earlier this year the U.S. Department of State changed their travel advisory for Japan from a Level 3: “Reconsider Travel” to Level 1: “Exercise Normal Precautions,” which was the level Japan before the start of the pandemic.
Australian Government - Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs now advises that you need only exercise normal safety precautions while traveling in Japan. 
Government of Canada - Official Global Travel Advisories - Japan
The Canadian Government allows fully-vaccinated travellers to travel freely and avoid quarantine on return. Japan's risk level has been revised to "Exercise Normal Security Precautions" and vaccinated returnees to Canada will simply have to provide evidence of a negative PCR test within 72hrs and submit travel plans to ArriveCAN prior to their arrival. Please note that you may still be subject to random medical screenings on return to Canada.  
To find out more about how specific airlines are operating their flights and their terms and conditions, visit the pages below: 
British Airways - COVID-19 Travel and Service Updates
United - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates
Qantas - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Travel Updates
American Airlines - Travel Updates
Delta Air Lines - Coronavirus Updates
 
 To learn more about how InsideJapan is prepared now that travel is officially resuming, head to our Travel with Confidence page. We have summarised the current government advisories of various countries below. To find out more, click on each header to visit the website for your location.  UK FCO Travel Advice - Japan No quarantine, testing or locator forms are required for entrants from the UK, regardless of vaccination status.  U.S. Department of State - Travel.State.Gov Earlier this year the U.S. Department of State changed their travel advisory for Japan from a Level 3: “Reconsider Travel” to Level 1: “Exercise Normal Precautions,” which was the level Japan before the start of the pandemic. Australian Government - Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs now advises that you need only exercise normal safety precautions while traveling in Japan.  Government of Canada - Official Global Travel Advisories - Japan The Canadian Government allows fully-vaccinated travellers to travel freely and avoid quarantine on return. Japan's risk level has been revised to "Exercise Normal Security Precautions" and vaccinated returnees to Canada will simply have to provide evidence of a negative PCR test within 72hrs and submit travel plans to ArriveCAN prior to their arrival. Please note that you may still be subject to random medical screenings on return to Canada.   To find out more about how specific airlines are operating their flights and their terms and conditions, visit the pages below:  British Airways - COVID-19 Travel and Service Updates United - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Qantas - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Travel Updates American Airlines - Travel Updates Delta Air Lines - Coronavirus Updates   Find out more about coronavirus related news in Japan and hear from our Insiders on the ground. How will your experience in Japan be affected? Please register your interest using the simple form below and feel free to give your local office a call if you have any questions. We're more than happy to chat and help you get the most from both your Japan and Summer Games 2020 experience.  We send all our proposals by email and it's usually the best way for us to send you ideas and information about your trip and to answer your questions. It would be great to have the chance to speak on the phone so we can get the best possible understanding of what you're looking for (and because we all love talking about Japan!)  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 If you'd like any help or want to know more about Japan, feel free to either enquire today, give our Japan travel experts a call, or why not get one of our beautiful Japan brochures. 
Sign me up
Client log in
 Get beneath the surface Award-winning, innovative and fun group tours, tailormade trips and cultural experiences throughout Japan. Interested in Southeast Asia? Craft bespoke Asia holidays with InsideAsia Tours. If you're interested in Japan, you will love our newsletter. Sign-up and we'll bring a little bit of the magic of Japan to your inbox as well as letting you know about our latest Japan travel experiences, exclusive promotions and insider specials!  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 Looking for some inside knowledge? Would like a little expert assistance? Fill in this form, tell us a few things about yourself and what your perfect Japan trip looks like and our team are here to help make it happen. Alternatively, give us a call. There is nothing we enjoy more than talking about Japan!  We don't believe in a one size fits all approach, so please provide us with as much relevant information as possible to help us plan your perfect holiday! How can we contact you about your enquiry? We'll get back to you as soon as possible. We send all our proposals by email and it's usually the best way for us to send you ideas and information about your trip and to answer your questions. It would be great to have the chance to speak on the phone so we can get the best possible understanding of what you're looking for (and because we all love talking about Japan!)  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 Complete the form below and our latest brochure full of Japan inspiration will be on its way to you next working day.  Please fill in your name and contact details below  Please fill in your address details below to be sent our latest brochure  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 Complete this simple form and we'll email you a link to download our latest brochure, packed full of Japan travel inspiration.  Just let us know who you are and you'll receive the brochure links in the next couple of minutes. 

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 You can email us using the below form. We would also love to chat about your travel plans and are happy to talk if you have any questions, so feel free to give our local office a call.  We send all our proposals by email and it's usually the best way for us to send you ideas and information about your trip and to answer your questions. It would be great to have the chance to speak on the phone so we can get the best possible understanding of what you're looking for (and because we all love talking about Japan!)  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
 You can email us using the below form. We would also love to chat about your travel plans and are happy to talk if you have any questions, so feel free to give our local office a call. Offer title:   Code:    We send all our proposals by email and it's usually the best way for us to send you ideas and information about your trip and to answer your questions. It would be great to have the chance to speak on the phone so we can get the best possible understanding of what you're looking for (and because we all love talking about Japan!)  

Your personal information is kept confidential at all times
