Comment As generative AI like ChatGPT and DALL-E 2 attract investor attention, startup entrepreneurs are looking to cash in with new business models built around them. One of the more interesting ventures to emerge from the space recently is Poly, which lets designers create video game and other virtual assets, including textures for 3D models, using only text prompts. Poly is essentially a stock asset library along the lines of Adobe Stock and Shutterstock but populated exclusively by AI generations. While platforms like Getty Images have banned AI-generated content for fear of potential legal blowback, Poly is barreling full steam ahead. “Almost everyone knows the all-too-common pain of searching for that perfect icon, illustration, font or sound effect online, only to give up and settle for something imperfect. Poly is trying to drastically improve this with a suite of generative tools focused on creators,” CEO Abhay Agarwal told TechCrunch in an email interview. Before co-founding Poly with Sam Young, Agarwal was a research fellow at Microsoft, where he published papers in the field of AI for social impact. Agarwal then started Polytopal, a “human-centered AI” consulting company that worked with brands like Spotify, Meta and Nestlé to develop various intelligent systems. Among other projects, Polytopal co-created a dance choreography algorithm for the game BeatSaber and launched a virtual baking assistant for Toll House that helps design a cookie recipe to suit users’ dietary needs. “Young and I started Poly in early 2022 from a shared passion to ‘increase the creative capacity of the world,’ and joined Y Combinator’s S22 batch,” Agarwal said. Poly’s first tool in its planned web-based suite generates 3D textures with physically-based rendering maps. In modeling, “physically-based rendering” refers to a technique that aims to render images in a way that mimics the flow of light in the real world. With Poly, designers can describe a texture (e.g. “Tree bark with moss”) and optionally provide a reference image to get generated textures for crafting 3D models. The models come in customizable resolutions and with normal and invert maps — maps often used in game development to add volume, depth and details to 3D objects’ surfaces. “Poly trains its generative AI models with several proprietary methods, such as extracting texture information from normal images to augment its model’s learning capabilities,” Agarwal said. When asked about how Poly treats more sensitive content that developers might request, like violent and overtly sexual generated imagery, Agarwal provided few details but said that Poly “carefully and responsibly” audits its products. “We’ve had no instances of harm reported to us yet,” he added. Poly sees itself competing both with traditional asset marketplaces and developers’ manual design processes. Besides portals such as GameDev Market and OpenGameArt, major game engine vendors like Unity host and sell assets through their own platforms. Poly’s also not the first to apply AI to generating game assets. Direct competitors include Hotpot and Pixela.ai, which use similar algorithms to create custom backgrounds, sprites and other art content. Agarwal asserts that Poly’s generative AI is superior to most in terms of the quality of assets it produces. The jury’s out on that. But Poly aims to further differentiate itself by expanding its generative AI service across asset types such as illustrations, sprites, sound effects and more. It plans to make money through enterprise partnerships, premium integrations for design tools and by charging a subscription fee for royalty-free access to assets, including commercial and resale rights. Agarwal claims that “thousands” of developers are currently using Poly’s free service, which generates an unlimited number of assets for noncommercial use, while “hundreds” are paying for Poly’s pro plan. To date, the platform has generated more than two million textures. That momentum drew in investors, including Felicis, Bloomberg Beta, NextView Ventures, Y Combinator, Figma Ventures and the AI Grant, which together contributed $3.9 million in venture capital toward Poly at Y Combinator’s demo day in September. “Poly’s customers range from professionals at Fortune 500 companies to individual freelancers in game design, AR/VR, interior design, architecture and 3D rendering for ecommerce and marketing,” Agarwal said. “Poly has a multi-year runway and can focus on building the best possible technology since a higher-quality product is required to stand out and win in this emerging and highly active space.” Assuming Poly broadly catches on, it and its generative AI rivals run the risk of upsetting the artist community — not only because they might threaten livelihoods but because generative AI systems have been shown to regurgitate the data on which they were trained (e.g. existing art assets). On the art community portal ArtStation, which earlier this year began allowing AI-generated art on its platform for the first time, members began widely protesting by placing “No AI Art” images in their portfolios. The alluded-to legal questions around the technology remain unresolved, as well. One class action lawsuit alleges that GitHub’s code-generating system, Copilot, regurgitates sections of licensed code without providing credit, which could have implications for art-generating AI systems as well as those that use art created by them. In an unrelated case, the U.S. Copyright Office recently ended copyright protection for a comic book created with generative AI after initially granting it, saying that only works created by humans are entitled to protection. Agarwal isn’t concerned, though — or if he is, he isn’t showing it. “Generative AI is facing a lot of criticism from creators and is being viewed as ‘anti-creator’ as many companies in this space want to replace creators with automated systems. However, Poly’s focus has always been to empower creators with easier access to design assets,” Agarwal said. “Building on its current momentum, Poly plans to continue its relentless focus on its proprietary generative AI innovation, model training and product development to support more types of design assets and be embedded into designers’ daily workflows.” Poly has three employees at present, and plans to double its team in the next six-12 months. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Powered by WordPress VIP