Comment Several years ago, Noah Stanford teamed up with Michael Melone to found 0pass, a startup that aims to make it easier for companies to replace usernames and passwords with biometrics, like Touch ID and Face ID. Relatively quickly, 0pass gained the attention of investors, including Y Combinator, recently closing a $3.5 million seed round led by Brett Gibson at Initialized Capital with participation from Y Combinator, Box Group, 645 Ventures and angel investors. Prior to starting 0pass, Stanford joined SpaceX as a security engineer, leading the identity and authentication team. After helping to roll out authentication across SpaceX, he sought to commercialize the tooling he’d built at his previous employer. “The primary difference between 0pass and other passwordless solutions is that 0pass is able to address passwordless login for all systems under one umbrella rather than just a subset,” Stanford explained. “This means that 0pass is able to handle passwordless login for Windows, Linux, Mac, remote access and websites — fully within the cloud or completely air-gapped.” 0pass’ products, which are available in on-premise and fully managed flavors, enable companies to enroll their employees into hardware authentication devices and biometric authentication such as Windows Hello and Touch ID. The company’s tooling, which uses private keys stored in secure hardware modules, enforces biometrics for access to workstations, apps and web apps and servers — allowing admins to manage authentication methods and tie user identity to security keys. “0pass can integrate with private infrastructure, operating systems, identity providers and any user directories or certificate authorities,” Stanford explained. “Keys are tied to certificates to connect employee identity for authorization.” 0pass competes with a growing number of startups in the passwordless authentication market, which Statista projects will be worth $53.6 billion in 2030. Descope, a “developer-first” authentication and user management platform, recently emerged from stealth with $53 million in funding. There’s also Stytch, an API-first passwordless startup, and Magic, which offers “plug and play,” enterprise-oriented passwordless tech. Fortunately for 0pass, demand remains strong for passwordless technologies. In a recent survey by Axiad, 82% of respondents — developers and IT and cybersecurity professionals — say that moving to passwordless authentication is in their top five priorities. One motivation? The potential cost savings. According to one source, organizations can save millions by switching to passwordless authentication — thanks to fewer data breaches and password resets, to name a few possible plusses. As of May 2020, 150 million people were using passwordless logins each month, per a Microsoft report. “Senior leadership is having to rethink how to secure accounts as traditional methods are repeatedly compromised,” Stanford said. “Taking a completely different approach and changing how every individual at the company logs in is a C-suite directive. Instead of adding more steps and complexity to employee logins, passwordless represents a new paradigm and addresses one of the largest security risks an organization faces.” 0pass moved out of private beta recently, and plans to onboard its first batch of enterprise customers in the coming weeks. Stanford says the company, which has four employees (possibly eight by the end of the year), has at least “several years” of runway, and will spend the proceeds from the round on product development and customer acquisition. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  Powered by WordPress VIP