Comment Spline, a no-code design tool for creating 3D assets, today announced that it raised $15 million in a seed round led by Gradient Ventures with participation from First Round Capital, NXTP, Chapter One, Vercel CEO Guillermo Rauch, Y Combinator, Webflow CEO Vlad Magdalin and Backend Capital. Co-founder and CEO Alejandro Leon says that the proceeds, which bring Spline’s total raised to $16 million, will be put toward R&D and expanding the size of the startup’s 20-person team. “Back in early 2020, before launching Spline, our talks with investors about investing in 3D were met with reactions of uncertainty,” Leon told TechCrunch in an email interview. “A lot has changed since then, and we also progressed a lot. 3D has now become a default content format, alongside Images, audio and video.” Leon — who says he’s been passionate about 3D since he was a kid, even learning to code because of it — launched Spline in 2020, inspired to make the 3D design process simpler and easier to learn. Spline was accepted into one of Y Combinator’s 2021 batches and launched in beta last March. Spline lets users create 3D objects, edit materials, add interactivity (including game controls) and animations, and export them — all from a web browser, either from scratch or pre-made objects. The platform’s collaboration features let users work together to fine-tune and comment on assets, and create real-time physics simulations and interactions between those assets. Designs can be exported as image files, GIFs and more, or embedded in web pages using a few strings of code. “Web technologies are now capable of achieving higher levels of quality. AI is also expanding into 3D, and now we have new upcoming tech that builds on a 3D and spatial foundation,” Leon said. Leon sees generative AI as the next logical step for Spline’s platform, which competes with incumbent tools like Blender and Cinema 4D. Spline recently added AI-style transfer and AI texture tools to its suite, and it’s exploring ways to use prompts for content creation using large language models — following on the heels of companies like OpenAI and Meta. “We believe that AI can empower more designers to easily get started by reducing the friction and complexity of the 3D creation process,” Leon added. “There are a lot of complexities in the 3D creation process, so this is an ongoing effort and overall challenge, but we think AI will be an important part of making 3D creation more accessible for anyone.” To date, over 1 million creators have joined Spline — a number that left Gradient Ventures’ Darian Shirazi impressed. “We’re blown away by the product Alejandro and the Spline team have created,” Shirazi, a general partner at Gradient, said via email. “And the community of creators that have found Spline and fallen in love with its capabilities is equally impressive. The future of computing and communication is driven by 3D, and we believe Spline is at the crossroads of creativity … and AI.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Welcome to TechCrunch Fintech! This week, we’re looking at the respective demise of Tally and Score, plus examining Klarna’s latest business move. We also have a list of fintech companies…  Fabric has developed a custom RISC-V-based chip that is optimized to run the algorithms necessary to establish zero-knowledge proofs and enable fully homomorphic encryption.  BEVC is the latest life sciences VC to add planetary health to its portfolio, suggesting that the trend is catching hold.  As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Powered by WordPress VIP