The latest news as it happens from Canberra and the surrounding region. Your business insurance advisersAdvice your business can trust Local news from the Canberra region. Working together, enriching lives News and analysis of APS, ACT public sector and diplomatic corp policy, politics and people. Australian, Trusted, Cleared and ExperiencedCyber Security and Technology Specialists Thought-provoking pieces written by local Canberrans and community leaders. Canberra’s Leading Relationship Lawyers Business and technology stories from the Canberra region. We know how to find you really awesome people. Your one-stop destination for the latest Capital region property and real estate news. DevelopmentDesignConstructionFind out more Sporting news from the ACT and Capital region. Come home to your Jerra. The people, places, pets and passions that give our city life. Do The Zoo!Bring the whole familyfor an unforgettable day ofexploration and learning Where to eat, what to drink in the Canberra region. Canberra’s Best Happy HourEnjoy a 49% discounton selected beverages.Find out more. The stories behind the people and places that make Canberra what it is. Restore certainty after separationBook a free legal appointment. Music, festivals, charity events - everything that’s happening in the Canberra region. Refreshingly Local Professor Malcolm Thatcher, the Australian Digital Health Agency’s chief technology officer. Photo: Professor Malcolm Thatcher. The Australian Digital Health Agency has successfully completed one of the largest-ever data migration projects in Australian history, moving the My Health Record database from a fixed server environment to the cloud. The transition of more than 2.5 petabytes of data took place between January and July 2022 through IT services company DXC Technology, and after a period of design work before that. The migration project was delivered from DXC’s 700-seat, government-certified delivery hub in Adelaide. The whole project was driven by a directive from the government that its assets needed to be moved out of ageing data centres in line with a whole-of-government hosting strategy. In a company statement, DXC’s general manager of federal health and social services Brad McKendry said: “With many years’ experience working closely with the public sector, we were able to demonstrate our significant government footprint and successful track record in running critical government systems.” READ ALSO STEM pathways critical to Canberra’s jobs future The Australian Digital Health Agency’s chief technology officer, Professor Malcolm Thatcher, told Region, “We awarded that contract to DXC, and they assisted us with the build sheets in the Microsoft Azure [cloud computing] environment. “Probably the most important driver for us was that government has made a commitment to modernise the My Health Record system,” he said. “What that means is we’re looking to expand the agency’s support of digital health through other technologies, not just the My Health Record database. “We recognised that cloud computing allows the agility of infrastructure that we need in order to move forward to start to unpack the technology stack that we’ve been using for 10 years and be able to do that in a reasonable amount of time.” With data as sensitive as health records, security and sovereignty are key. “The sovereignty of data is dealt with under the Digital Transformation Agency (DTA) certification process, so we could only procure DTA-certified cloud services,” Professor Thatcher explained. “Security is fundamental to the agency’s function so, under the Information Security Manual, which is the government’s guidance around information sensitivity, the My Health Record is classified and protected to the highest level.” READ ALSO After months of waiting, there were few surprises in the Defence Strategic Review Professor Thatcher said most of the security controls are already embedded in the design of the system. “For example, the data is already encrypted at rest, so even if a threat actor was somehow able to make its way into the system, they wouldn’t be able to do anything with the data. “We think it’s an important control. And then the firewall controls we have throughout the different layers of software were over-specified. It’s almost like a babushka doll. We put protections around every component in there.” DXC and Microsoft are critical to the operation of the Azure environment, and they’re assisting the agency with ongoing monitoring of it. “That’s not just about performance and availability, but obviously the cyber security aspects we hold very dearly,” he said. “We’ve got a multi-partner model where we integrate our security monitoring and we integrate our security management. It’s definitely not a set-and-forget.” READ ALSO Lockheed Martin selected for Defence satellite communications project Despite DXC and Microsoft having international parentage, the Australian Digital Health Agency said it was important that the data be handled and secured by Australians. “It was really clear that the resources we were utilising needed to be Australian-based,” Professor Thatcher said. “Having said that, these companies have a global team that they can call upon if anything tricky comes up. “This is one of the government’s largest holdings of citizen data, and I want to emphasise how seriously we take the privacy and protection of that data. “I think one of the genuine benefits of the My Health Record Act is that it provides citizens with protections and control that are embedded in the design of the software and the way it operates. The move to the cloud doesn’t in any way impede those protections.” Professor Thatcher said the lessons learned from the My Health Record migration are being passed on to other agencies. “We have been having discussions with other government agencies because the Australian Digital Health Agency is a member of the Digital Leadership Committee across government,” he said. “The thing about cloud engineering is it’s got to be perceived as an ongoing journey of maturation. The Australian Digital Health Agency over-specified everything and, even though we had great partners with lots of depth of expertise, as an organisation with the accountability to run that environment, we were rightly conservative. “Now we’re learning to optimise the performance, cost and resilience of that environment. All organisations moving to the cloud, whether they’re government or not, have to be prepared for that journey.” Again, whichever of the ACT Labor social medis team has logged into the "Jack D" account today, I'm… View This reads as if it’s for everyone but the neurodivergent person themselves, when what we really… View This looks like a typical Greens hollow thought bubble which lacks common sense. I quote:… View Well I’m sure the 4 public servants they’ve hired will put an end to all that View Dodgy builders et al have been destroying people's lives for decades, yet nothing changes. They… View Greens always over-promise then under-deliver, this is their MO, each election they promise to turn… View Why go to Cape York to test the suspension on your 4WD. Just drive on some Canberra roads View IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE View Hello Jack D. You must be a young man, if you are looking foward to LR progressing down Athllon to… View Jack D thinks pointing out obvious failures of governance in the current Legislative Assembly is… View It's very hard to contribute when you're struggling to find your next meal, or put a roof over your… View Just FYI it would cost the ACT government very little to build quality sustainable public housing.… View   Should the alcohol excise be slashed?  View Results Since 2014, True Connection Electrical have been servicing residential and small commercial clients with reliable, trustworthy and top-quality electrical work in Canberra and the surrounding region. A passionate team of Canberrans helping other Canberrans secure their home loans. No frills, no commissions, no brainer. BDN has provided legal services to to Canberra, Queanbeyan and the region for over 160 years. We're proud to give you a place where friends and family can come together for good food and great entertainment. The Walking Clinic has perpetuated an attitude of excellence in foot health provision. The experienced Podiatric team provide current and innovative care to all patients. Allinsure has been a trusted insurance advisory to thousands of Australian business owners for almost 20 years. Through a spirit of entrepreneurialism, collaboration, and future-forward thinking, MV Law have earned an industry-leading reputation and a huge base of long-lasting client partnerships that are built on a foundation of trust and respect. SolarHub has helped more than 12,000 customers reduce their energy bills and greenhouse gas emissions by harnessing the power of the sun. Subscribe to receive the latest local voices straight to your inbox. Download the Riotact app to get all the latest news, events and opinions wherever you are. Region Media acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the land on which we work and report. We pay our respects to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Elders past, present and emerging and commit our company to ongoing acts of reconciliation. You can read our Reconciliation Action Plan here. Copyright © 2024 Region Group Pty Ltd ABN 85 168 887 232. All rights reserved. the-riotact.com | regionmedia.com.cn | regionillawarra.com.au | regionriverina.com.au | aboutregional.com.au | capeyorkweekly.com.au | psnews.com.au | thisiscanberra.com | mygungahlin.com.au Want the best Canberra news delivered daily? Every day we package the most popular Riotact stories and send them straight to your inbox. Sign-up now for trusted local news that will never be behind a paywall.