
	 YEREVAN, December 22. /ARKA/. Yandex has registered a new holding company - Beyond ML - in Armenia and the US. It owns a dozen machine learning (ML) technology startups around the world, RTVi reported.


	 Legally this business is registered in the name of Yandex top managers Maxim Zagrebin and Dmitry Stepanov, but a number of employees of the company, as RTVI found out, were told that Beyond ML was created to level out "country risks" and continue Yandex's work in Europe and the United States. Yandex's press service confirmed that Beyond ML is a company project and called it an "internal experiment."


	 The official Beyond ML website, which RTVI discovered, says it is a "venture studio for machine learning startups" registered in Yerevan. In addition to its headquarters in Yerevan, the company has divisions in New York, Belgrade and Seville.


	 Beyond ML has 6 startups in its portfolio on its website, but RTVI found 10 companies that have said on their official websites that they are owned/controlled or managed by Beyond ML.  --0—
 
	 YEREVAN, December 22. /ARKA/. Yandex has registered a new holding company - Beyond ML - in Armenia and the US. It owns a dozen machine learning (ML) technology startups around the world, RTVi reported.
 
	 Legally this business is registered in the name of Yandex top managers Maxim Zagrebin and Dmitry Stepanov, but a number of employees of the company, as RTVI found out, were told that Beyond ML was created to level out "country risks" and continue Yandex's work in Europe and the United States. Yandex's press service confirmed that Beyond ML is a company project and called it an "internal experiment."
 
	 The official Beyond ML website, which RTVI discovered, says it is a "venture studio for machine learning startups" registered in Yerevan. In addition to its headquarters in Yerevan, the company has divisions in New York, Belgrade and Seville.
 
	 Beyond ML has 6 startups in its portfolio on its website, but RTVI found 10 companies that have said on their official websites that they are owned/controlled or managed by Beyond ML.  --0—
 
Read the news first and discuss them in our Telegram 
  19:07 12/22/2022  
14:33
Armenia ranks 81st in global mobile Internet speed, lagging behind neighbors
 
12:53
Yerevan to install 'smart' streetlights on Baghramyan Avenue
 
14:57
Viva offers unlimited YouTube for AMD 3000 monthly
 Main sections: About project 
About project

Jobs
 
Advertisement
 
Registration
			If you are new on the site, please fill out the registration form.		 Enter the website you can use your account on any of the following services.