The ninth edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup, which Australia and New Zealand will host, kicks off on July 20, and interest is high across the globe. Fans from 132 countries have snapped up more than 500,000 tickets with 100 days to go. The tournament is anticipated to break the overall attendance record of 1.1 million set at France 2019. U.S. soccer supporters are among the most ardent. More than 82% plan to follow the Women’s World Cup, according to a report from London-based Footballco, which surveyed more than 2,000 fans of women’s soccer—male and female—from 10 countries: the UK, Germany, the U.S., Brazil, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the UAE. More from Sportico.com USWNT Turns to TNT and Telemundo for Multilingual Audience Boom Women's World Cup Prize Money Jumps to $110 Million for 2023 Tournament Infantino Reelected as FIFA President, Pledges Record Revenues The survey asked respondents to identify as either “superfans” (watch as many games as possible, regardless of team), “supporters” (focus on their national team) or “casuals” (occasional watchers). Globally, 52% categorized themselves as supporters or superfans, while in the U.S. that number jumps to 68%. Looking at only superfans, the numbers go to 39% in the U.S. and 23% globally. “From a U.S. point of view, it’s a very established sport for women,” Morgan Brennan, head of Footballco’s women’s soccer brand, Indivisa, said in a video call. “There has been more of a historical fan base for the women’s national team, obviously, as champions.” In all, the U.S. has won four times (1991, 1999, 2015 and 2019). In the survey, 45% of U.S. fans said they had been following the women’s game for at least six years, surpassing all other countries except Japan. The recent but rapid growth of the NWSL may also play a role. Despite recent scandals, the league’s viewership and valuations have skyrocketed. Attendance has also jumped—with Los Angeles’ Angel City FC, the Portland Thorns, San Diego Wave and Kansas City Current leading the way. The league has readied for additional expansion and a new television deal to kick in when its agreement with CBS expires at the end of the season. That may explain why 45% of U.S. fans said they were more interested in women’s soccer now than 12 months ago, a span when the USWNT did not play in any major global competitions. That’s a bigger spike than any other country. In England, where the domestic women’s game has also made significant progress in the same period, only 34% of fans responded affirmatively. “Fandom has been developing so rapidly,” Brennan said. “It’s really important that we acknowledge and understand the differences between fandom—a female fan in the UK digests and engages with the game in a very different way [than] a U.S. fan.” Last summer, England’s success at the Euros drew a crowd of thousands to Wembley Stadium for the final, but at the professional level, both the Women’s Super League and fandom are growing slowly. Currently, 12 teams compete in the WSL, which was launched in 2010 by England’s Football Association, the national organizing body equivalent to U.S. Soccer. Recently, executives have intensified the process to spin the league off into a private entity similar to the men’s Premier League. If approved by the stakeholders, the new league will launch for the 2024-25 season. With the USWNT favored to win the World Cup, the 2023 tournament may spark a further surge in interest in women’s soccer domestically and abroad, as happened after 2019. That year, the Cup tallied record viewership with a combined 1.12 billion viewers, which was a 106% increase over the 2015 World Cup held in Canada. For the final match, 82.12 million viewers tuned in to watch the U.S. beat the Netherlands, making it the most-watched game in tournament history (up 56% from the 2015 championship). “2019 was record-breaking at the time,” Brennan said. “But looking back on that now, I think we can expect [more] for this one, despite the geographical and logistical differences being in Australia and New Zealand.” The logistical differences include a major gap in time zones between the U.S. and Australia, which could lead many U.S. fans to follow the World Cup on other platforms if watching live is not possible. But logistics are not the only problem. Brennan said to bring in new fans, it is important for them to have consistent media access. “Finding out where these matches are, what times they’re going to be on, really basic information, is still lacking,” she said. “Obviously, around the big moments like the World Cup or the Euros, there’s a lot more coverage around it, but it’s the in-between bits that really need to be sustained.” Best of Sportico.com Name, Image and Likeness: A Guide to College Athlete NIL Deals, Compensation Click here to read the full article.  Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season?