Five Russia-affiliated internet companies are to be formally delisted from U.S. stock exchanges, a year after trading was halted in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The most prominent of the quintet is Yandex, a 25-year-old tech company often called "The Google of Russia," owing to its products spanning search, e-commerce, advertising, maps, transportation and more. Yandex first went public on Nasdaq in May, 2011, via a parent holding company called Yandex N.V. that's registered in the Netherlands. This was followed by a secondary listing on the Moscow Exchange three years later. Yandex had been performing well as a public company, reaching an all-time high in November, 2021, with a market cap of $31 billion. In the months that followed, Yandex's shares went into freefall as Russia invaded neighboring Ukraine, leading Nasdaq to put a temporary halt on trading in February, 2022. Many Western companies suspended operations in Russia in early 2022 due to sanctions, while Yandex CEO and founder Arkady Volozh left the company last June after he was included on a list of sanctions issued by the European Union. To protect its remaining interests, Yandex has been divesting some of its properties, including offloading its news service to a rival with close ties to the Russian State. And back in November, Yandex announced plans for a corporate restructuring that would distance itself from its Russian roots through further divestments, while leveraging its existing international presence in areas such as self-driving cars and cloud computing. Yandex also noted that it would likely re-brand its Dutch holding company, though this has yet to come to fruition. However, Yandex wasn't the only Russian company impacted by geopolitical turmoil. Nasdaq last year halted trading in online recruitment platform HeadHunter; e-commerce player Ozon, which has been called the Amazon of Russia; and Russian fintech Qiwi, which claims an official headquarters in Cyprus. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), meanwhile, halted trading in Russian real estate database company Cian, which also is officially based in Cyprus. Yesterday, Nasdaq alerted its four companies that delisting proceedings were underway, with Yandex, HeadHunter, Ozon and Qiwi's delisting-day scheduled for March 24. The NYSE also notified Cian, though a date wasn't provided. Nasdaq's rules around delisting procedures state that it can do so "...based on any event, condition, or circumstance that exists or occurs that makes initial or continued listing of the securities inadvisable or unwarranted in its opinion, even though the securities meet all enumerated criteria for initial or continued listing on Nasdaq." However, there is also an official appeals process in place. Companies facing a delisting process can request a hearing from an advisory committee that's appointed by Nasdaq's board of directors, and companies wishing to do so have seven days after receiving their delisting notice. Yandex has said that it will appeal the decision, while Ozon has confirmed that it's filing an appeal too. HeadHunter, Qiwi, and Cian have all subsequently confirmed that they too are appealing against the decision to delist them.* *This article was updated on March 22 to confirm that Qiwi, Cian, and HeadHunter are also appealing against the delisting decisions. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." One day before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has embarked on a bus tour in Pennsylvania with her running mate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16.