Russia and China are stepping up joint military drills in Asia and the Pacific — and their moves are starting to alarm the Pentagon. On Sunday, Beijing and Moscow completed a massive air and naval exercise in the Sea of Japan, including anti-submarine missions, sea-and-air escort training, and combat games, according to Chinese state media. Leaders said the practice runs were focused on “safeguarding” the region’s maritime transportation — possibly a mocking reference to language Biden administration has used to justify its own growing military presence in the South China Sea and Taiwan Strait. Last month, four Chinese H-6 bombers and two Russian Tu-95 bombers conducted joint patrols between Japan and South Korea and further south towards the Philippines and Guam — all bases for American forces. The operation caused both Tokyo and Seoul to scramble fighters to defend their airspace and seemed to be a warning to the leaders of the Quad nations — the U.S., Japan, Australia, and India — who were meeting in Tokyo that week. American defense officials have said they’re now gauging whether the Chinese and Russian militaries will look to run these sorts of exercises closer to U.S. territory. There are also concerns that the Kremlin may be sharing battlefield data from its war in Ukraine, which involves military operations against U.S. and NATO defense systems, with China. “As it goes into the Pacific, they have amplified and increased their amount of joint-training, joint-exercises, and joint-demonstrations,” Admiral John Aquilino, commander of U.S. forces in the Indo-Pacific, said last week at the Aspen Security Forum. “I only see the cooperation getting stronger. And, boy, that’s concerning. That’s a dangerous world.” For obvious reasons, most coverage of China and Russia’s “no limits friendship” has focused on how it will affect Moscow’s military efforts in Ukraine. But the recent joint exercises are a reminder that the alliance could also have vast security implications for much of Asia. While China is engaging in a historic arms buildup on its own, Beijing could still be bolstered by the Kremlin’s military capabilities, including nuclear-armed submarines, long-range bombers, and hypersonic missile systems. The Kremlin also headquarters its Pacific Fleet in Vladivostok, just across the Sea of Japan from Tokyo. Its regular deployment in the Indo-Pacific, particularly in collaboration with the People’s Liberation Army, would significantly alter the region’s military balance. “We’ve always known that the Pacific Fleet in the Eastern Military District of Russia was going to be a factor in the Pacific and that we at some point would have to address. Russia is just not a European and NATO problem,” retired General Steven Rudder, a former commander of U.S. Marine forces in the Pacific and a nonresident Atlantic Council fellow, told Semafor. “With Russia at war and now aligned and getting support from China, we now squarely see Russia as more of a dynamic problem in Asia much more than before.” U.S. strategists are also concerned that Russia is sharing its battlefield lessons from Ukraine with Beijing in real time. China hasn’t engaged in a major military battle since its 1979 border war with Vietnam, which it lost. Moscow’s experience in fighting U.S. and NATO weapons systems in both Ukraine and Syria could be invaluable in helping China plan for any engagements against the Pentagon in Asia. The growing China-Russia military exercises are “helping to offset the PLA’s lack of combat experience, one of its most significant weaknesses relative to the United States,” the Center for New American Security wrote in April. They also mark a historical reversal: For much of the Cold War, China aligned with the U.S. in seeking to constrain the Soviet Union’s advances in Asia. China and Russia both cast the U.S. and its allies as the aggressors in Asia, and have suggested they are simply looking to counter the Biden administration’s recent moves to bolster America’s presence, and military alliances, there. “We would like to make it clear to NATO that the Chinese side is firm in its resolve to safeguard its sovereignty, security and development interests,” China’s spokesman at the European Union said after the summit. “We firmly oppose NATO’s eastward movement into the Asia-Pacific region and any action that jeopardizes China’s legitimate rights and interests will be met with a resolute response. Politico reported on Monday about China’s massive shipments of nonlethal, but militarily useful, aid to Russia – “enough for an army.” During Henry Kissinger’s visit last week, Chinese leaders heralded previous eras of warm U.S.-Chinese relations — including efforts to constrain the Soviet Union. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.