Homes & Property | Buying & Mortgages Leasehold properties — usually flats — make up 20 per cent of the housing stock in the UK with an estimated 4.86 million homes in the UK subject to the arrangement. The term refers to a temporary right to lease land or property from a freeholder, which historically involved paying ground rent.  Replaced by a notional ‘peppercorn rent’ last June under the Leasehold Reform (Ground Rent) Act 2022, ground rent has effectively been abolished for all new long leases. Under the Leasehold Reform and Urban Development Act 1993, leaseholders who have owned their home for at least two years have a statutory right to extend their lease by 90 years for a flat or 50 years for a house, though this excludes those on shared ownership schemes who do not yet own 100 per cent of the property. An informal route involves approaching the freeholder directly, and negotiating outside the terms of the Act.  They may offer a quicker deal for a shorter extension, but beware that you would be on the hook for any solicitor fees should either party pull out further down the line. “I would never recommend anyone to go down this route,” says Sebastian O’Kelly, who runs charity Leasehold Knowledge Partnership. Lenders can be reluctant to offer mortgages for homes with fewer than 80 years remaining on the lease so these are often bought by cash buyers. However borrowing criteria “is very lender-specific,” says Colin Payne, associate director of mortgage broker Chapelgate Private Finance. “Some lenders will want 85 years outstanding on the lease at time of application, some 75, some 70. Others will simply require 50 years outstanding on the lease by the end of the mortgage term — so in theory if there was 65 years outstanding at application, you could do a 15-year term.” A shorter term may impact the amount you can borrow as the monthly payments will be higher. Theoretically you may be able to buy a property with cash and use a mortgage offer to pay for the lease extension, “but there is also the option of bridging finance”, explains Payne.  “This short-term finance option will allow the lease to be extended and then a mortgage can be used as an exit to repay the bridging finance. This can be a cheaper way of purchasing a property than buying a similar home on a long lease.” After at least two years of property ownership, you may be able to borrow more on your mortgage to pay for a lease extension.  If you have a fixed-term mortgage deal — usually two or five years — you should wait until the term ends to avoid early repayment charges or ending up with multiple mortgage products at different rates and with different fixed terms. Avoid that particular remortgaging nightmare at all costs.  If you’re on a variable rate, however, you should be able to borrow more — or switch to a new lender — at any time. Another option is to remortgage at the same time as completing a lease extension. It’s recommended that you use the same solicitor for both transactions so that they can be done simultaneously. Amber Krishnan-Bird, a property solicitor at Osbornes Law, has spotted an “unprecedented” 61 per cent increase in leaseholders approaching the practice for extensions. “Extending a lease can add potentially tens of thousands of pounds onto a property whatever the state of the market,” she says. As fees for the service are partially based on property value, a slump could offer a silver lining to leaseholders. “It’s the perfect time to consider extending”. The costs involved are tricky to predict. Osbornes Law’s lease extension calculator suggests a property worth £450,000 post-extension with 100 years left on the lease and a £400 annual ground rent could cost about £10,000. Clubbing together with other leaseholders to buy (and share) the freehold of a building, known as collective enfranchisement, may cost a little more.  Although you’ll need to get at least half of the leaseholders on board and will be obligated to manage the building, you can then extend your lease up to 999 years for no premium, assuming your fellow co-freeholders agree.   Don’t be seduced by a discount property with a short lease Acting to rectify a short lease is one thing – taking one on voluntarily is quite another. The costs involved in extending the very shortest leases may outweigh any benefit. “The most I ever saw paid for an extension was over £320,000 for a Mayfair property with just 40 years left on the lease,” says Krishnan-Bird.  Remember that the apparently low price reflects the potential headache on the horizon. Never set up an informal agreement While approaching your freeholder directly could theoretically save time, an informal agreement is not covered by the Leasehold Reform and Urban Development Act 1993 – and horror stories are hardly in short supply. O’Kelly knows of a buy-to-let landlord who unwittingly agreed to a clause banning subletting. “It cost him £15,000 to fix”.  If you serve a notice where not all of the necessary details are included “it can prevent you extending for another year,” warns Krishnan-Bird. Always choose an ALEP-accredited solicitor Check that your chosen solicitor is a member of the Association of Leasehold Enfranchisement Practitioners. Beware of “usually well meaning” probate lawyers in particular, adds O’Kelly, who often do not hold the specialist knowledge needed to navigate leaseholder law.  Circumvent a solicitor entirely at your peril. “It’s almost always possible to do anything without a solicitor, but leasehold law is extremely complicated and prescriptive with no room for error,” says Krishnan-Bird, who advises that most mortgage lenders would usually stipulate a solicitor be involved. Never let your lease drop below 80 years… “If you’re at 82 years or below, act immediately,” says O’Kelly. “You risk your property value evaporating”.  It is in your freeholder’s financial interest for you to drop below this, as you are then subject to ‘marriage value’ and your freeholder will be entitled to 50 per cent of the increase in the value of the property once its lease is extended. “If it’s a day under 80 years you are facing a hefty bill,” warns Krishnan-Bird. ...but wait for potential reform if you have time to spare Michael Gove, who allegedly last week rejected a promotion to stay in his role as Levelling Up, Housing and Communities minister, has pledged sweeping reforms to the leasehold system.  All eligible leaseholders will have the right to extend by 990 years, and O’Kelly expects we could see a set calculation introduced for those looking to buy their freehold defined by multiples of ground rent – as is the case in Scotland and Northern Ireland.  An abolishment of marriage value is also in the pipeline. “If you’ve got 90 or so years left on your lease, wait and see what’s announced in this autumn’s delayed King’s Speech,” he advises. You should seek independent advice from a qualified professional before acting upon any information contained in this article. Ten London properties for sale for buyers willing to take on short leases Where to buy your first home: London’s best neighbourhoods for first-time buyers London property market slump yet to materialise as average house prices rise £34k in a year Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Football Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs 2 UK Sicily yacht sinking LIVE: London tech boss Mike Lynch 'among several missing' as Bayesian superyacht sinks 3 Showbiz Eamonn Holmes replaced on GB News with no explanation 4 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 5 Football Chelsea to accelerate fire sale with 14 players facing exits before transfer window closes