e-Pilot e-Pilot Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Pilot e-Pilot Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		  A citrine gemstone necklace made by Zoltan David sits on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. David has a permanent exhibit of his work at the Smithsonian. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  Owner Gale Higgs poses for a portrait at her store, G Marie Luxuries, in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  A stainless steel and gold sculpture made by Michael Benisty sits on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  A set of blue emerald earrings and a ring made by Erica Courtney sits on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  Store manager Carla Carter models flexible bracelets in white, yellow and rose gold made by an Italian designer who goes by FOPE at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  Artwork comprised of sandblasted glass made by Patrick Downing hangs on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  Owner Gale Higgs poses for a portrait at her store, G Marie Luxuries, in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)  A necklace made of Ethiopian Opals made by Paula Crevoshay sits on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot) A citrine gemstone necklace made by Zoltan David sits on display at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. David has a permanent exhibit of his work at the Smithsonian. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot) Developer Gale Higgs, known for building The Marina at Marina Shores at Lynnhaven Inlet with her late husband more than 30 years ago, has had a variety of projects since then, including operating the Kane Marie Fine Arts Gallery, which closed in 2008.The Virginia Beach native now has her eyes set on a new industry: luxury jewelry.“I looked around and said, ‘All right, well, I’m not going to build for the next few years, what am I going to do?’ ” Higgs said. “And I thought about how much joy there was in that gallery, working with artists and clients and enjoying the works of art created by nature and man, which is really what fine art jewelry is.”A bracelet made of porcelain beads featuring a citrine gemstone made by Silvia Furmanovich is modeled the at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)G Marie Luxuries, at 2861 Lynnhaven Drive not far from the renovated marina, is a jewelry store showcasing unique and often one-of-a-kind pieces. Higgs started thinking seriously about creating the store two years ago. After a series of opening setbacks due to supply issues, it finally debuted in June.The store is decorated with furniture from Paris, chandeliers from the 1950s and a carpet created from reclaimed fishing net with a satellite image of the ocean floor from space — personal touches all chosen by Higgs.Just like the furniture, the jewelry is carefully selected by Higgs and comes from around the world.Whether it’s a bracelet designed by a jeweler in a small village off the Alaskan coast or a necklace created with materials found on the beaches of Costa Rica, Higgs said the beauty of a piece of luxury jewelry is not just about cost or value. Prices online range from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands.“I know people who, unless it’s a precious stone, emerald, ruby, diamond, sapphire, don’t consider it luxury, while other people consider handmade wood art from Japan that you wear on your wrist an incredible luxury,” she said.

Linda Morrison models pieces made by Misani at G Marie Luxuries in Virginia Beach, Va. on Friday, July 14, 2023. (Kendall Warner/The Virginian-Pilot)Higgs, who has been going to jewelry shows for decades, said the beauty of jewelry is its ability to bring someone confidence.“When women wear jewelry, it empowers them. It enhances them. It enables them to see themselves in a more beautiful light. You put on a piece of jewelry, it’s like ‘there I am,’ or you remember who gave it to you, or the moment they gave it to you,” she said.While the store focuses on jewelry, it also has art pieces for sale. Products are also available online.“We are new. We are different,” Higgs said. “When you come in, you’re going to find things you haven’t seen before.”For more information, visit gmarie.com.Gabby Jimenez, gabrielle.jimenez@virginiamedia.com The Virginia Beach native now has her eyes set on a new industry: luxury jewelry. “I looked around and said, ‘All right, well, I’m not going to build for the next few years, what am I going to do?’ ” Higgs said. “And I thought about how much joy there was in that gallery, working with artists and clients and enjoying the works of art created by nature and man, which is really what fine art jewelry is.” G Marie Luxuries, at 2861 Lynnhaven Drive not far from the renovated marina, is a jewelry store showcasing unique and often one-of-a-kind pieces. Higgs started thinking seriously about creating the store two years ago. After a series of opening setbacks due to supply issues, it finally debuted in June. The store is decorated with furniture from Paris, chandeliers from the 1950s and a carpet created from reclaimed fishing net with a satellite image of the ocean floor from space — personal touches all chosen by Higgs. Just like the furniture, the jewelry is carefully selected by Higgs and comes from around the world. Whether it’s a bracelet designed by a jeweler in a small village off the Alaskan coast or a necklace created with materials found on the beaches of Costa Rica, Higgs said the beauty of a piece of luxury jewelry is not just about cost or value. Prices online range from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands. “I know people who, unless it’s a precious stone, emerald, ruby, diamond, sapphire, don’t consider it luxury, while other people consider handmade wood art from Japan that you wear on your wrist an incredible luxury,” she said. Higgs, who has been going to jewelry shows for decades, said the beauty of jewelry is its ability to bring someone confidence. “When women wear jewelry, it empowers them. It enhances them. It enables them to see themselves in a more beautiful light. You put on a piece of jewelry, it’s like ‘there I am,’ or you remember who gave it to you, or the moment they gave it to you,” she said. While the store focuses on jewelry, it also has art pieces for sale. Products are also available online. “We are new. We are different,” Higgs said. “When you come in, you’re going to find things you haven’t seen before.” For more information, visit gmarie.com. Gabby Jimenez, gabrielle.jimenez@virginiamedia.com Copyright © 2024 The Virginian-Pilot