Open menu OneFootball's home page Search Settings Sign In In partnership with Paris Saint-Germain ·11 August 2023 Paris Saint-Germain and Yassir, the Super-App offering on-demand and payment services in North Africa and beyond are pleased to announce the signing of a global partnership for three seasons with the aim of further developing the Yassir brand on the international stage. The Yassir online marketplace, which offers transport, delivery, and payment services, chose to team up with Paris Saint-Germain in order to develop its brand worldwide and expand its presence in the seven countries in which it is already established: Algeria, Canada, France, Morocco, Senegal, South Africa and Tunisia.For three seasons, the largest on-demand services and payments company in North Africa will benefit from unique visibility thanks to the support of Paris Saint-Germain. As part of the rights acquired, Yassir will feature on the LEDs in the legendary Parc des Princes stadium and will have the opportunity to address Paris Saint-Germain's 200 million followers, one of the largest communities in world sport, live on social media in a bid to attract even more customers with its innovative campaigns. 'Yassir is the largest on-demand services and payments company in North Africa,' said Noureddine Tayebi, founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Yassir platform. 'In five years, we have become established in seven countries and over fifty cities across the globe. We are confident that our alliance with Paris Saint-Germain, a French club that has become a truly global brand, will enable us to expand into other regional, continental, and world markets. We cannot wait to treat our loyal customers to a unique experience with Paris Saint-Germain.'Marc Armstrong, Chief Revenue Officer at Paris Saint-Germain, added, 'We are delighted to team up with a company that shares our philosophy. Yassir and Paris Saint-Germain both want to explore new horizons and are determined to push boundaries in order to continue enriching the experience of our supporters and customers alike.'To celebrate this collaboration, Paris Saint-Germain and Yassir will create unique offers and experiences for the 8 million users of the Yassir Super-App across the globe, with the aim of attracting and earning the loyalty of even more customers. -- Access all Paris Saint-Germain news on PSG.FR and PSG Official app. Lionel Messi absent from Argentina national team squad for World Cup qualifiers 90min Atalanta set Lookman price-tag for PSG after personal approach Football Italia PSG players to vote on club captaincy Get French Football News West Ham step up interest in PSG’s Carlos Soler Get French Football News Man Utd 'make offer' for Manuel Ugarte alternative as PSG talks drag on 90min Man City make contact with Barcelona midfielder’s camp over potential move Photo by Joan Valls/Urbanandsport/NurPhoto via Getty Images

The final days of the transfer window are getting closer and Barcelona have stepped up their activity in terms of outgoing. The Catalan club... Chelsea reach agreement with Atletico Madrid for Joao Felix After over a week of negotiations, Chelsea look to have reached an agreement with Atletico Madrid for Portuguese forward Joao Felix. The 24-year-old is in Atletico’s matchday squad for their... 🚨 Real Sociedad president confirms Zubimendi will not join Liverpool Real Sociedad are set to keep hold of Martín Zubimendi after a new update from club president Jokin Aperribay.
The 25-year-old midfielder was heavily linked with a move to Liverpool but... In partnership with OneFootball is proud to partner with Yahoo! Sports to deliver quality football content to fans in USA and Canada. OneFootball's home page © 2024 OneFootball