The raunchy old days are back in East New York, where some blocks are overrun by hookers hawking early-morning sex — with one strutting her stuff nearly naked in the middle of a street, shocking new footage posted online shows. The YouTube video, “East New York Ep. 2,” was shot at 7 a.m. on July 28  along Stanley Avenue near Sheffield Avenue — and has already garnered 5,000 views. A woman wearing a see-through orange negligee and silver platform heels can be seen walking back and forth in front of a parked car next to a trash truck in an industrial block.  Then, a woman who appears to be topless with an open jacket on walks in front of oncoming traffic. Next, a woman wearing a see-through purple negligee and strappy high heels trips as she tries to talk to a potential client in a car as a woman wearing a tiny black teddy with a cut-out stomach watches from across the street.  Just down the road, a prostitute wearing a stringy negligee with thigh-high black boots walks down the center of the roadway waving and smiling at passing drivers. Another streetwalker in a barely-there orange outfit is seen walking past a Department of Sanitation building on Georgia Avenue. The YouTube user posted the first episode online on July 3.  It showed the sex trade on Pennsylvania Avenue and received 448,317 views, according to the site.  The scene in the disturbing videos reminded retired Detective and John Jay College professor Michael Alcazar, who worked in East New York’s 75th Precinct, of rampant open-air prostitution in the lawless 1990s. “In the 75, we would drive down areas where there were waves of them,” said Alcazar, who was on the job for three decades. “It’s sad because we cleaned it up. And now it’s back and with that, they’re also trafficking. You know, kids.” Alcazar said when he was an undercover officer the NYPD would arrest 13-year-olds and “get them help.” “You know, they look at their pimps like they’re gonna take care of them,” he said. “They don’t know they’re being used.” Advertisement