NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A young mother has modified the interior of her Ford Focus so it could be used as a makeshift armoury by her ex-commando boyfriend. Charlotte Horne, 25, cut secret openings into the seats of her vehicle and then had them covered over with a fabric throw after Sulleman Yassir, 21, needed a place to hide a pistol given to him by a former Special Forces comrade. Police recovered the gun from one of the slits after Yassir began waving it in the street at a group of men he accused of insulting his local mosque. Officers also found ammunition, a black suppressor, a large serrated knife, air-pistol rounds and cutters concealed in Horne’s handbag. It is not known what the weapons were intended to be used for. During a hearing at Manchester Crown Court, Horne, from the city’s Wythenshawe district, was sentenced to a two year community order.  She was also ordered to complete 30 rehabilitation activity days and 100 hours unpaid work. Yassir, of Ladybarn, Manchester was jailed for 18 months. Both pleaded guilty to possession of a firearm in a public place and possession of a bladed article. The incident occurred at 8.30pm on June 2 last year on the A6 in the city’s Longsight area, after CCTV captured Horn stopping her vehicle at a car wash opposite the local police station. Brendan O’Leary prosecuting said: ‘Ms Horne was identified as the driver and Yassir as the passenger.  ‘After the car parked up Yassir was seen to get out of the car and reach back into the vehicle as if he was retrieving something from the seat. ‘He then ran over to the road and positioned himself near his local mosque on the road where he was seen gesticulating in an animated manner to others standing across the street. ‘He appears to be holding a small black pistol in his hand at the time.’ ‘Moments later he ran back to the car, clearly showing the pistol in his outstretched right hand, before getting into the car.’ Greater Manchester police were alerted to the incident and managed to identify the car from the CCTV footage, before stopping the vehicle for a search and apprehending the suspects later that night. While inspecting the vehicle, officers ‘lifted up a fabric throw that was covering the seats and found a slit in one of them’, the prosecution added. ‘PC Hadfield reached into the slit and felt the handle of a firearm. It was a black.22 calibre air pistol.  ‘They also found a small black two inch blade in Yassir’s gym holdall. Both parties were arrested.’ During an interview Yassir claimed that he had previously been in the Royal Marines, and said he had been gifted the air pistol by a friend in the special forces. He also claimed the large serrated knife that was found was used to skin rabbits. Train lines blocked after landslip with disruption set to last for hours Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Expert gives verdict on likelihood of mpox lockdown in the UK Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End In mitigation for Yassir, defence counsel Aubrey Sampson said: ‘Mr Yassir accepts the prosecution’s facts completely. ‘He was on his way, travelling down the A6, when he heard some racist comments made about his mosque by passersby. ‘When he approached them they directed their insults at him and his family. He then attempted to put a stop to it and show them his gun. ‘He genuinely believed that he had the right to own the gun and that it didn’t fall under the firearms act. ‘As you heard from his interview he had previously been in the armed forces and was given the pistol by an ex Special Forces friend who visited him. He said that he was only driving to drop the weapons off at his girlfriend’s house.’ Train lines blocked after landslip with disruption set to last for hours Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Expert gives verdict on likelihood of mpox lockdown in the UK Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End Horne is currently living in temporary council accommodation and has a young child to care for. She has no previous convictions and has never been in custody before. Sentencing Judge Patrick Field KC told Horne: ‘My only hope is that in your case you will regard this sad and pitiful incident as something of a wakeup call. ‘I hope you realise that a more constructive approach to your life will not only benefit you but your child as well.’ Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. For more stories like this, check our news page. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed