Please Update your browser 
                    Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page.  
Most Indonesians in Sudan were students studying Islam, as Sudan is one of the popular spots to study Islam besides Egypt and Saudi Arabia, with Sudan’s religious schools well known for their recitations of the Quran.

                        

 A. Muh. Ibnu Aqil 
                                                    (The Jakarta Post)
                                            



                                    Premium
                                



                                Jakarta
                            

                                Thu, May 4, 2023
                            



 Most Indonesians in Sudan were students studying Islam, as Sudan is one of the popular spots to study Islam besides Egypt and Saudi Arabia, with Sudan’s religious schools well known for their recitations of the Quran.

                          Sudanese envoy in Jakarta gave their assurance that once the conflict in its country died down, Indonesian students would be able to return to Sudan to finish their studies. On April 15, disputes between the Sudanese Army and the paramilitary group Rapid Support Forces (RSF) broke out into an armed conflict, killing hundreds and wounding thousands in over two weeks of fighting. Sudanese Ambassador to Indonesia Yassir Mohamed Ali Mohamed said a lot of Indonesian students had been evacuated safely out of Sudan while the fighting continued, but he expressed hope that once the conflict died down the students would come back. “Insyallah [God willing], after things have settled, they can go back to Sudan to continue their studies,” Mohamed told reporters at his official residence in Jakarta on Wednesday. He said the Sudanese army had been making progress in regaining control against the “rebellious forces” of RSF, and said he expected the situation could return to normal in a matter of two to three months. A total of 952 Indonesians had been evacuated out of Sudan as of Wednesday, about 923 of whom had returned home to Indonesia from Jeddah in four batches of repatriation flights in the past few days while six Indonesians arranged their own journeys home. There are about 1,200 Indonesian registered with their embassy in Khartoum, with around 937 present during the conflict. Most Indonesian people in Sudan were students studying Islam, as Sudan is one of the popular spots to study Islam besides Egypt and Saudi Arabia, with Sudan’s religious schools well known for their recitations of the Quran. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara   Or continue login with   
                        Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen.
                     Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.