Sep. 15—Ole Miss went on the road and beat Georgia Tech 42-0 last season. On Saturday, the Rebels will look to achieve similar results in Oxford. Here are five keys to a Rebel win: Win both lines of scrimmage No. 17 Ole Miss' running game has been uncharacteristically pedestrian through two games; after averaging nearly 257 yards per game last year, the Rebels are at 116 yards a contest at the moment. Jaxson Dart was also sacked four times against Tulane. During the first half against the Green Wave, Ole Miss' offensive and defensive lines were either neutralized or beaten. That largely changed in the second half, but it was still of note. The Rebels want to run the ball and get Quinshon Judkins going. Georgia Tech is giving up 211.5 yards per game (119th nationally). It might not be the worst idea for Ole Miss to reestablish its physical identity against the Yellow Jackets. That rings true for the defensive line as well, who must contend with a Georgia Tech running game that averages 221.5 yards per game. Dart keeps playing smart Save for one poor decision against Tulane that resulted in an interception, Dart has kept the ball out of harm's way through two games. His dual-threat abilities are a big reason Ole Miss was able to pull away in New Orleans last weekend. The Rebels' offense has committed just two turnovers this season, and Dart's decision-making plays a big part in that. He's averaging 17.2 yards per completion this season — top in the SEC and fifth nationally — and has been in control of the offense. If he keeps doing that, the Rebels will be in good shape. Limit the big plays Georgia Tech quarterback Haynes King averages 15.1 yards per completion, which is 17th nationally. Per CFBStats, the Yellow Jackets have 39 offensive plays of 10 yards or more, which is tied for 14th in the nation; 18 of those have come on the ground, which is tied for sixth in college football. The Rebels have largely prevented the big play this season, with just 15 plays of 10 or more yards allowed (t-8th). The Yellow Jackets' best way into this weekend's game is likely through big plays on offense. Ole Miss needs to keep doing what it's been doing in that regard. Get after the passer King has only been sacked once this season. Ole Miss is tied for ninth in the nation at four sacks per game. Something has to give. Don't get caught looking ahead There's a certain game looming in Tuscaloosa, Alabama next Saturday at 2:30 p.m. on CBS that is bound to get a ton of attention nationally. Ole Miss dropped a heartbreaker with No. 10 Alabama last season in Oxford, a 30-24 defeat that the Rebels led at halftime and had a chance to win late. Ole Miss head coach Lane Kiffin and Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban have a well-documented prior relationship, as Kiffin was Alabama's offensive coordinator for three seasons. Next weekend is going to be chaotic. But the Rebels need to focus on the here and now and not overlook a Georgia Tech team that appears to be in a far better spot than it was a season ago. This is not the same Yellow Jackets team that was beaten by six touchdowns in Atlanta last year. michael.katz@djournal.com Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal.