Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Seth Rogen's streak of stellar low-key fits has earned the semi-professional ceramicist several nods here at GQ, including a cover and a spot on the short list of our Most Stylish Men of 2022. In the new year, we’re relieved to report, Rogen shows no sign of taking his slip-on-shod foot off the proverbial gas.  Outside the set of Jimmy Kimmel Live! this week, the multi-talented Tinseltowner was snapped sporting not one, but two (2) extremely emulatable outfits. A galaxy brain style move, or some sort of homage to Joey’s oft-memed Friends getup? Not exactly. One outfit dangled tantalizingly in pieces in Rogen's hand, clearly a swap for what he eventually wore on air—a heavyweight white tee, sharp double-breasted suit, and slick black derbies. (Who, after all, wants to show up to an interview on national TV in sweaty, wrinkly clothing?) His outfit-outfit, however, is the one that really caught our eye—largely because of how in line it is with Rogen’s entire sartorial MO recently.   Mr Porter  Todd Snyder It’s a formula that's served the actor well in the past: a textural cardigan from the quiet menswear heads at Universal Works, slouchy drawstring trousers, and quirky slip-ons—in this case, Birkenstock's shearling-lined Boston clogs—all filtered through a cold weather-ready monochromatic lens. It's the kind of look that encapsulates the wave of very chill normal guy fits celebrities like Ryan Reynolds and sometimes, Pete Davidson, have been wearing lately: interesting enough to garner a few double takes, but not so heady that they make the average fellas following along at home roll their eyes. Rogen is putting his own artful spin on it, and it'd behoove you to as well. Why not plan a backup fit to schlep around while you're at it?  L.L. Bean  Lady White Co. The Best Jeans for Men Under $100 The Best White Sneakers for Men Will Really Tie Your Wardrobe Together The Best Hoodies for Men Look As Good As They Feel The Best T-Shirts For Men, Period The Best Men's Swim Trunks Are the Only Shorts You Really Need More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices