 LOYALTY CODE:                         
                            The paper code cannot be redeemed when browsing in private/incognito mode. Please go to a normal browser window and enter the code there

                         
This content is copyright protected!
                    However, if you would like to share the information in this article, you may use the headline, summary and link below:
Title: Freezing temperatures, sleet and snow ahead – Met Éireann
A yellow low temperature and ice warning has been issued for the entire country as a cold spell nears.
https://www.farmersjournal.ie/freezing-temperatures-sleet-and-snow-ahead-met-ireann-752552
  ENTER YOUR LOYALTY CODE: 






 



UNLOCK



                         
                            The reader loyalty code gives you full access to the site from when you enter it until the following Wednesday at 9pm. Find your unique code on the back page of Irish Country Living every week.
                          CODE ACCEPTED                         
                            You have full access to farmersjournal.ie on this browser until 9pm next Wednesday. Thank you for buying the paper and using the code.
                         CODE NOT VALID                         
                            Please try again or contact us.
                         






 



UNLOCK



                         
                            For assistance, call 01 4199525
                            or email subs@farmersjournal.ie
                         
 Read about how the code works here 
 
                   Sign in
                  
                   Incorrect details
                  
                   Please try again or reset password
                   

RESET PASSWORD


SUBSCRIBE

 
                     If would like to speak to a member of our team, please call us on 01-4199525
                  
                      Resetpassword
                  
                     Please enter your email address and wewill send you a link to reset your password
                  

 
                     If would like to speak to a member of our team, please call us on 01-4199525
                  
                        Link sent to your email address
                  

 
                     We have sent an email to your address.
                     Please click on the link in this email to reset
                     your password. If you can't find it in your inbox,
                     please check your spam folder. If you can't
                     find the email, please call us on 01-4199525.
                  

 
                   Email address not recognised
                  
                     There is no subscription associated with this email
                     address. To read our subscriber-only content.
                     please subscribe or use the reader loyalty code.
                  

TRY AGAIN


USE THE CODE


SUBSCRIBE

 
                     If would like to speak to a member of our team, please call us on 01-4199525
                  Update Success ! 
                                      SHARING OPTIONS:
                                     






 Met Éireann has issued a yellow low temperature and ice warning for Monday evening and night. The cold snap, which will see temperatures drop below zero, will lead to “hazardous” conditions including icy stretches on roads and paths, says the weather forecaster. There will also be sleet or snow flurries in places. Farmers can expect icy conditions on Tuesday morning. \ Philip Doyle All counties are to be affected with snow and sleet most likely in Munster. The Met Éireann yellow warning commences from 6pm Monday and expires Tuesday at 10am. The Irish Farmers Journal team has compiled a range of tips for farm management during cold spells. See here for further detail.    Read more Five tips to working in freezing conditions Met Éireann has issued a yellow low temperature and ice warning for Monday evening and night. The cold snap, which will see temperatures drop below zero, will lead to “hazardous” conditions including icy stretches on roads and paths, says the weather forecaster. There will also be sleet or snow flurries in places. Farmers can expect icy conditions on Tuesday morning. \ Philip Doyle All counties are to be affected with snow and sleet most likely in Munster. The Met Éireann yellow warning commences from 6pm Monday and expires Tuesday at 10am.  The Irish Farmers Journal team has compiled a range of tips for farm management during cold spells. See here for further detail.    Read more Five tips to working in freezing conditions  Contact us Advertise with us Company information Career opportunities Privacy statement  Terms of service Commenting policy Change cookies settings