Notre Dame is busy scouring the country for talented recruits with upside to be difference makers for the Irish. One of the most versatile players in the 2025 recruiting class, Cleveland (Ohio) Villa Angela - St. Joseph athlete Bo Jackson is being pursued as a running back or defender depending on the school.  On Wednesday, Notre Dame extended an offer to Jackson.  Jackson is an extremely well liked recruit from a rankings perspective. He is considered a consensus four-star recruit on every major recruiting platform. On3 currently has Jackson rated the highest, sitting as the No. 91 overall player and No. 7 running back in the 2025 recruiting class.  The 6-0, 205-pound athlete already boasts an elite offer list. Some of the notable programs who have extended offers to Jackson include the Fighting Irish, Ohio State, Penn State, Michigan State, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Pittsburgh, Purdue, Cincinnati and Rutgers among others.  The coaches who were included in the offer announcement were Marcus Freeman, Al Washington and Al Golden. That would suggest that Jackson’s talents were being targeted on the defensive side of the football. On film, he has some impressive clips as a safety and rover, showcasing massive upside on defense.  Whether he ends up as a running back, safety, rover or even linebacker, Jackson is one of the more physically gifted players in the 2025 class.  Be sure to check out the Irish Breakdown message board, the Champions Lounge Irish Breakdown Content 2023 Scholarship Chart2023 Football Schedule Notre Dame 2024 Scholarship Offers 2024 Commit Rankings - Offense2024 Commit Rankings - Defense 2023 Recruiting Class Grades - Offense2023 Recruiting Class Grades - Defense ——————— Become a premium Irish Breakdown member, which grants you access to all of our premium content and our premium message board! Click on the link below for more. BECOME A MEMBER Be sure to stay locked into Irish Breakdown all the time! Join the Irish Breakdown community!Subscribe to the Irish Breakdown YouTube channelSubscribe to the Irish Breakdown podcast on iTunesFollow me on Twitter: @RiseNDraftLike and follow Irish Breakdown on Facebook Sign up for the FREE Irish Breakdown daily newsletter