Two major incidents happened in the first-half at Wembley Stadium. Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters  The BBC pundits have had their say after an enthralling, draining and controversial first half of the Challenge Cup final between Hull KR and Leigh Leopards.  Firstly, there was John Asiata's tackle on George King, which started a set of handbags on the Wembley turf. Followed by Elliot Minchella spending 10 in the bin after he was adjudged to have elbowed Ben Reynolds following a deep kick downfield. Both going against the Robins.  At half-time, former Robins Jon Wilkin and Jamie Peacock, plus Leeds Rhinos legend Jamie Jones-Buchanan were quizzed about their thoughts. With mixed replies, some of the pundits thought Rovers were hard done by.  Jamie Peacock I think there is a professional foul but I don't think it's a penalty try. You can see the professional foul and it should have been a yellow card. That's my take on it. If you think in the context of the yellow card given later on, that's a yellow card. Read more: Hull KR v Leigh Leopards LIVE: Challenge Cup final action from Wembley Stadium Jon Wilkin It's a professional foul. What are we talking about? He held him back. It's a professional foul, he tackled him. I'm sat around a lot of Hull KR fans who are very disgruntled with that decision. It's a penalty and a yellow card. It's not a penalty try because you can't guarantee he's going to score that. Jamie-Jones Buchanan on Elliot Minchella yellow card I don't even think it's a penalty. I can understand it. It's a mandate referees have been given, you've got to rule out the contact, there may even by a sly elbow or forearm there. It's a little bit reckless. You've got to settle it on this big stage and tell people we aren't having this any more. Peacock on yellow card I think it's just lazy from Minchella. You know the technique you've got to use. But I don't think it's the right decision in the context of the game. So no, I don't think it's the right decision. 