TAULANT XHAKA was involved in one of the strangest incidents since VAR was implemented during Basel’s match vs FC Zurich on Sunday.  Taulant, brother of Arsenal star Granit Xhaka, was left furious after he was recalled to the pitch only to be sent back off again.  The 32-year-old was given his marching orders after receiving two yellow cards, the second of which was for a headbutt on Zurich player Nikola Katic.  The Albanian international left the pitch and walked down the tunnel only to be called back by the referee after a VAR review.  VAR had determined that the headbutt was a straight red card offence rather than a yellow and so Xhaka was shown the red and had to leave the pitch for a second time in a matter of minutes.  Xhaka’s red card wasn’t the only sending off of the game as four players were shown a red in what was a feisty affair between the Swiss rivals.  The match ended with Zurich winding up as 2-0 winners. It sees Zurich now in eighth place with Basel up in fifth.  Xhaka took to Instagram following the game to apologise for losing his temper and explain what happened. He wrote: “I would like to take this opportunity to apologise in all form for my suspension from last night. BETTING SPECIAL - BEST SPORTS BETTING APPS IN THE UK “You know me as an emotional player. As someone who does not hold back, who gives everything for his colours on the pitch.  “And we players, too, are flesh and blood people who react emotionally in certain situations.  “At the same time, no verbal insults on the field, against me and my family, justify such a blunder on my part.” He went on to say: “I can't undo what happened last night and I will of course face the consequences for not being able to control myself for a brief moment.” ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/