As the U.S. men's national soccer team prepares for its World Cup Round of 16 showdown against the Netherlands on Saturday (10 a.m. ET on FOX), there are a handful of players carrying yellow cards who could risk a one-game suspension if they are penalized as such again. In Tuesday's win over Iran that sent the USMNT into the knockout rounds, team captain Tyler Adams was issued a yellow card. In the team's tournament-opening 1-1 draw with Wales, Kellyn Acosta, Sergiño Dest, Tim Ream and Weston McKennie each were issued yellow cards. All five players run the risk of missing the quarterfinals (should the U.S. advance) if they are issued another yellow card on Saturday. WORLD CUP 2022: Schedule, scores and latest news OPINION: USMNT sees reaching World Cup knockout rounds as means to end, not signature achievement FUTBOL, FOOTBALL AND EVERYTHING IN BETWEEN: Sign up now to get top sports headlines delivered daily Explaining what exactly a yellow card in soccer means is like trying to explain umpire Ángel Hernández's strike zone to baseball fans. Basically, it's a foul, and the degree of which will dictate whether it's a warning to the player or if said player receives a yellow card. Oftentimes, that all depends on the referee. Generally speaking, a referee will present a yellow card in order to caution a player for unsporting behavior, repeated infringement of the rules of the game, dissent by word or deed, not maintaining correct distance from a corner or free kick, leaving or re-entering the field of play without the referee's permission, or delaying the restart of the game. All of these infractions, of course, are up for interpretation by the referee. Think of it as a personal foul penalty in football ... except worse. A yellow card can have implications that go well beyond the current game being played. In terms of the current game being played, once a player receives a yellow card, it's imperative to avoid a second yellow card. If a second yellow card is presented by the referee, then that referee also will present a red card. That means a player is ejected from the game. This is bad for a number of reasons. One, an ejected soccer player – unlike in baseball, basketball or football – cannot be replaced by another player; that player's team must play at a personnel disadvantage. Two, the player who received the red card cannot play in their respective team's next game. Yellow and red card accumulation also can factor into which teams advance to the knockout stages. Behind most points, goal differential and total goals scored in group play is the "highest team conduct score relating to the number of yellow and red cards obtained" tiebreaker. Per FIFA's "fair play rule," each team is deducted points on their conduct score as such: yellow card: minus 1 point; indirect red card (as a result of two yellow cards): minus 3 points; direct red card: minus 4 points; yellow card and direct red card: minus 5 points. The "fair play" tiebreaker nearly came into play on Wednesday on the final day of Group C play. For a moment, Mexico and Poland both had four points, a goal difference of zero, two goals for, and two goals against. Poland owned the "fair play" tiebreaker. A late Saudi Arabia goal assured that the "fair play" tiebreaker would not be used to decide the second-place finisher, behind Argentina, of Group C. Poland moved on to the Round of 16 and Mexico failed to advance to the knockout rounds. Per FIFA: "If a player receives two cautions in two different matches, he will be automatically suspended from his team’s subsequent match." Also per FIFA, "Single yellow cards in the final competition will be cancelled after the quarter-finals." A second yellow card during the Round of 16 matches could result in being ineligible to play in the quarterfinals. However, all accumulated yellow cards for every player for each semifinal team will be wiped after the quarterfinals. This means semifinal participants will not be at risk of missing the World Cup final over yellow card accumulation. Unless, of course, a player receives two yellow cards, or a red card, in the semifinal, resulting in a player suspension for the final (or the third-place game). Any suspension that can't be served during the World Cup will carry over to that player's next official national team match. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: World Cup 2022 yellow card accumulation rules: How USMNT is impacted Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Christian Polanco and David Gass chat the USMNT reportedly hiring Mauricio Pochettino. They also discuss major storylines head of Premier League season, discuss MLS transfer news, and recap Leagues Cup round of 16.