The first time Stephanie Germino was banned from TikTok, she was mortified. “My whole world was coming down,” she said. “And I was like, ‘Wait, what's happening? Why me of all the people?’” In almost every video on her account, Germino appears topless. But her content does not violate any of the app’s community guidelines on adult nudity. Having undergone a double mastectomy two years ago, Germino, now 30, has no breasts, no nipples and no need to be censored, she said. Germino is a “previvor,” who chose a mastectomy as a preventative measure because she faces a higher risk of cancer. She is on the app to normalize the post-surgical option of “going flat,” or not getting breast implants. Yet a year since she posted her first topless video, Germino’s account, @theebooblessbabe, has accrued 1.6 million followers  – and been temporarily banned six times. “When I get these censorships, and I get these blocks, it really just unmotivates me from wanting to share my content, which is really a disservice,” she said. “Because I know this helps a countless amount of people.” Much of the controversy about social media today revolves around censorship, with strong opinions about the tech giants’ – and government’s – potential role in blocking undesirable content such as extremist views and fake news. However, Germino’s experience underscores one pitfall: Safeguards put in place to prevent one problem, in this case pornography, can cause others. When tests revealed a genetic mutation that put her at an 87% risk of breast cancer, Germino had a double mastectomy in 2021. Skipping implants, she said, is a choice many survivors or fellow previvors are not offered. Around half of all breast cancer patients who undergo a mastectomy choose reconstruction surgery, research shows. But a 2021 study found that about 1 in 3 women were not aware of all their options, including the choice to go flat, formally called an aesthetic flat closure. “That’s what my content brings,” Germino said. “It’s not just that I’m showcasing my body. I’m showcasing an option.” Although TikTok’s community guidelines state, in bold, that they “do not allow nudity,” including the “nipples and areolas of women and girls,” their policies do make exceptions for “non-sexualized content … in medical contexts (and) for educational purposes.” These “limited situations” would include mastectomy and breast cancer content. Other apps post similar guidelines and exceptions. Meta, the parent company for Facebook and Instagram, states a clear distinction for health-related content. Posts about mastectomies or breast cancer awareness, for example, are explicitly allowed, according to Instagram’s community guidelines. Both apps use artificial intelligence to initially screen posts. If these systems spot a potential infraction, they can immediately remove a post or send the questionable content to a human team for further review. But without the ability to recognize context, this technology is often the basis of moderation mistakes, said Tia Tyree, a professor at Howard University and expert in women and social media. “When someone is sharing their bare chests and their bare souls to show others what breast cancer has done to them, it’s a deeply emotional moment,” Tyree said. “To them, they’re telling their stories in a raw and real way. But to technology, it’s as simple as: There is a breast on screen, it has to go.” TikTok said their technology screens keywords, audio, images and titles in every video. Clear-cut violations, including nudity, lead to automatic removals. Instagram follows a similar enforcement process. While some of their artificial intelligence is used to specifically review text, other technology filters through images looking for breaches such as nudity.  Content restrictions have long been a feature of social media platforms, meant to ensure users’ comfort and safety. But the process is an imperfect system: while technology may inadvertently “catch” content from users like Germino, these same filters have missed more dangerous violations including hundreds of posts reselling recalled products on Facebook Marketplace or solicitations related to sex trafficking. Along with nudity or sexually explicit images, these apps have guidelines against violent images and misinformation. But when it comes to helping moderate false or misleading claims, the government’s hands were largely tied this summer by a court in Louisiana, which curbed collaborative efforts between the platforms and Biden administration agencies. The restriction by federal Judge Terry A. Doughty was a win for Republicans who claim the restrictions are government censorship. When Adriana Huerta was diagnosed with breast cancer in June 2020, she felt all alone in trying to learn more about the disease and find resources. Though she had a support system of friends and family, she said she had no one with personal experience to guide her. “I seriously wanted somebody to hold my hand and say, ‘Hey, next time you go to the doctor, make sure you have a notepad, ask about this, make sure you do this.’ Tips, advice,” Huerta said. Support systems are crucial for those going through a traumatic experience, said psychologist Paula Durlofsky. As platforms accessible at any time and globally connected, social media can be an ideal space to form these relationships. “Ultimately, the hope is that it will provide hope and encouragement and knowledge and will be helpful to both the individual that is facing a challenging health issue and maybe their families too,” Durlofsky said.  Dr. Robyn Roth, a New Jersey radiologist specializing in breast imaging, created her social media pages around sharing breast health information in a more approachable way. With almost 13,000 followers on TikTok and about 8,000 on Instagram, Roth uses her accounts, both named @theboobiedocs, to engage and educate a younger audience that she said may be unaware of their risk for the disease.  A study by Quest Diagnostics this year found that almost 1 in 4 Americans turn to social media for medical information, a statistic that increases to about 40% for Generation Z and for millennials.   “Since starting, I’ve had about five young women tell me that something that they learned from my page helped them find their breast cancer,” Roth said. Instagram is also a source of business for medical tattoo artist Nicole Rizzuto. The majority of clients at her independent studio in Long Island, she said, are breast cancer survivors who come to Rizzuto for areola and 3D nipple tattoos. Photos of her work dominate Rizzuto’s page, which has about 2,500 followers. Despite Instagram’s policies making an exception for “health-related situations” and Rizzuto’s photos not showing real nipples, she said she still has three or four posts flagged every month. “Breasts are a sexual organ, but cancer’s not really that sexy,” said Rizzuto, a survivor of kidney cancer. “There’s so many layers of trauma that occurs (to a breast cancer patient) and one of them is a disconnect to one’s body,” she said. “The nipple tattoos really can help someone have that connection again, which is a beautiful thing. ... “How is that in any way pornographic or sexual?” Being let down by social media and its confusing policies may be particularly disappointing for patients and survivors, Durlofsky said. “In their real life, they are facing circumstances that are frustrating and beyond their control, and then to go online (and) to have that with a virtual group could kind of trigger more of that frustration,” she said.  Many participants in the virtual cancer communities have adapted to moderation issues with workarounds, such as strategic video or text edits. Rori Zura, a 36-year-old breast cancer survivor and cancer exercise specialist, was fully clothed in an 11-second recording in which she lip-syncs to a motivational audio track. But when she went to upload the video to her page last May, an alert appeared immediately telling her she had violated TikTok’s community guidelines. Her original post never went up. The violation in Zura’s video was not her own body, but a painting in the background. With wings of fire and short, pink hair to match Zura’s own, the nude illustration was created by a good friend and based on Zura’s mother, who called her daughter “her little Phoenix.” “Why are you censoring something that’s supposed to be beautiful for people to look to as inspiration, not sexuality?” she said. So Zura posted the same recording again, adding an “I’M A SURVIVOR” sticker over the illustration’s fake breasts. This time, the video uploaded without issue. Before she posts any video to her TikTok account, Huerta looks for anything that might get her flagged, she said. If Huerta, a 35-year-old breast cancer survivor, sees a potential violation, she uses various editing techniques to try to prevent the issue.  Red flags can still be hard to predict, she said. “Their guidelines vary from day to day, video to video,” Huerta said. Users can appeal a removal or ban but Huerta uses social media as a creative outlet and place to find community. Because her accounts are mostly “just for fun,” she said she rarely contests when something gets removed. Not so for Germino, the “boobless” previvor. After facing the issue so many times on TikTok, she has the form to do so bookmarked on her phone.  Instagram makes it even easier: Creators can appeal through an option directly on the app. More often than not, however, tattoo artist Rizzuto said hers are denied. Roth, the radiologist, said she takes similar precautions as Huerta when deciding what to share on both platforms.  “You have to have your own internal filter,” she said. “And it’s unfortunate, because I do think sometimes I might have to tone down my content, just because I think it might get flagged or could potentially offend somebody, unintentionally.” Since she doesn’t typically include depictions or photos of breasts in her videos, Roth has not faced many issues with moderation. But seeing what happens to others in her online community, she worries that even having the word “boobie” in her username or across her page could get her crossways with the AI filters. Many breast cancer content creators try to sidestep moderation technology with intentional misspellings; using numbers to write words like “b00b” or “br3ast” are common examples, although TikTok does not officially ban the words “boob” or “breast. Another popular workaround, used across the app, is the hashtag “fakebody.” By including this in captions, users attempt to keep their nude or scantily clad videos from being flagged. “That’s a way for people to get around the guidelines, a way for people to say I’m going to trick this app, I’m going to trick this technology to make it do what I want it to do,” Tyree, professor and social media expert, said. “That’s just us adapting to rules, which we know human beings, and definitely Americans, like to do.” For a longer-term solution, Tyree said companies need technology that is smarter and better able to recognize a video’s context. “People are using TikTok in a way that they’ve always used social media, for that storytelling purpose,” she said. “(That’s) when you get into what we would consider a gray area. And the idea of showing your body to punctuate your journey, I think that’s where it gets into the problem.”