Program these exercises to increase your performance and sculpt big, strong glutes. IF THERE'S ONE muscle group that is well-represented on social media, it's the glutes. You've likely scrolled past a "booty-blasting" or "glute gains" video when you've wiled away time on the fitness internet—and maybe you've tried one or two of these routines yourself, hoping for posterior growth. The setup is usually fairly straightforward: The trainer or model shifts so their rear end is in the focus of the shot, then squats, thrusts, and pulses their way through a few movements with light dumbbells or no external load at all. The problem with most of these workouts, however, is that your glutes are just like any other muscle in your body. They need progressive overload to grow—and a quick circuit performed once or twice isn't going to provide that. You need a better catalogue of glute exercises to build muscle and strength in these essential leg muscles. Due to this proliferation of butt-focused content (and likely because of the types of people who are associated with it), you might be quick to dismiss the importance of training the glutes. That would be a huge mistake. These muscles are about more than just "booty building" and achieving aesthetic goals (although the potential benefits in that department are undeniable). Building a set of strong, healthy glutes should be in the sights of every type of exerciser, whether you're training to meet an aesthetic standard or you have major PR goals. Let's expand that, actually—strong, healthy glutes are good for everyone, from desk jockeys to grandparents. The massive muscles do a lot more than just fill out your favorite pair of jeans, so it pays to pay them individual attention in your training plan. The glutes serve as the engine for explosive, athletic movements needed to excel in sports. The muscles are also essential for proper posture and movement; without a functioning set of glutes, you're going to have a hard time doing much of anything with your body. Let's circle back to those unfortunate workout clips from the top of this article. If you've dismissed targeted glute training as an endeavor solely to whip up a thirst trap photo following, you're missing the point (and you need to log off). Glute workouts are for guys, too. Here's what you need to know about this eminently important muscle group—and the best movements you can add to your training to make them big and strong. So how can you train your butt effectively, without wasting your time with the thousands of rear-focused routines that populate social media? Understanding more about the largest muscle group in your body is a good way to answer that question. Consider the glutes your body’s anchor. These massive and powerful muscles that constitute much of your backside are pertinent in nearly every day-to-day activity. When most lifters think of the glutes, they usually just consider the gluteus maximus, the larger glute muscle that plays a major role in hip extension. There’s no denying that the glute max is incredibly important to think about and train, but there’s also the gluteus medius and minimus, also muscles deserving of our attention.  The glute medius’ anterior muscle fibers internally rotate the thigh and the posterior fiber play a role in leg abduction (moving your leg away from the midline of your body). The glute minimus works in synergy with the medius and plays an important role in supporting pelvic stability in the gait cycle. When we consider the dynamic nature of the glutes and how important they are for performance and everyday life, it’s pretty easy to see why it’s important to train them as a whole. It’s also important to recognize that the glutes are part of the body’s core. Men’s Health fitness director Ebenezer Samuel, C.S.C.S. notes that the core is composed of the abs, obliques, lower back musculature, and glutes. "They all work as one and, if you want a truly strong core, they must work as one."The glute exercises below vary greatly—and that's not an accident. You need to add some variety to your glute workouts in order to tackle the dynamic nature and different needs that the glute maximus, medius, and minimus have.  As we've covered, your glutes are a major engine for athleticism and power. They're also an aesthetic focus for lots of people—bigger glutes are a major draw. But there's a real downside to neglecting your glutes, too. You'll want to keep the muscles firing—otherwise, you could wind up developing an issue that could 'kill' your butt.  Gluteal amnesia, otherwise known as "dead butt syndrome," might sound like a joke, but it's a real issue for folks who spend too much time sitting down without using their muscles as they're meant to be used. Firing, or contracting, the muscles becomes an issue, and that can lead to problems with your posture, changes to your walking gait, and lower back and knee pain (and even injury) as the rest of your lower body compensates. So yeah, it's past time to give your glutes some extra TLC. Your pants will fit better, you'll get a spring in your step, and you might just get a little extra attention when you hit the town. Add the following moves to your workout routine for a better-looking, better-performing butt.  Want a more dedicated plan? Try this 30-day butt workout challenge to start a new glute training habit.  Why: Few exercises, when done correctly, isolate the glutes like the hip thrust. The movement is also that rare leg exercise that allows you to recover quickly for your next workout. Most leg exercises are multi-joint moves that can leave you sore for a day or two afterwards. But a properly done hip thrust isolates the glutes and can be done 3 to 4 times per week, depending on the rest of your training.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 12 reps Why: You're in the same position as the standard thrust to start—but it might be a good strategy to try this exercise with only your bodyweight to start. By working unilaterally (one leg at a time), you'll hone each leg at a time, working to correct any muscle imbalances between your legs. Once you've improved your form, think about adding a load.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 12 to 15 reps per leg Why: There may not be a better move for pure, explosive hip extension than the kettlebell swing. Learn to do it right, and it has you pushing your hips (and butt) backwards every rep, then exploding forward and squeezing your glutes aggressively at the top of every rep. It's a powerful, explosive, and sudden move that trains hip extension and glute power and translates to sports and on-field explosion.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 5 minutes of 30 seconds on, 3o seconds off Why: You'll still reap the benefits of the standard kettlebell swing—but you'll add an element of control that will force you to focus on creating force to power each rep, which won't allow you to use momentum as you might when you string together a series of swings. Use this variation when you want to pick up heavier weights.  How to Do It:  Sets and Reps: 3 to 5 sets of 3 to 5 reps Why: The goblet squat is a great anterior loaded squat variation that nearly every lifter can tackle. For this reason, it’s a great movement for beginners that want to target their glutes with a squat variation that can be performed with minimal equipment. How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 6 to 8 reps Why: The Cossack squat is a great unilateral lateral squat variation that tests your strength and mobility. This variation can be great for targeting the glutes because as you hit depth in this squat, the glutes are going to have to stabilize the pelvis then initiate extension to create a successful rep. How to Do It: 3 to 4 sets of 6 to 8 reps per side Why: You'll work your lower body muscles, including the glutes, while breaking out of the sagittal plane of movement (front-to-back). By moving in the frontal plane (side-to-side), you'll introduce a new element to your training. This will pay off with everything from your performance in sports to the way you move in everyday life. How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 sets of 6 to 8 reps per side Why: The basic Bulgarian split squat can be a great glute move. To focus it on the glutes, make sure your front shin is vertical to the ground and don't let our knee travel over your foot. If your knee travels forward, this becomes a more quad-powered movement. Focus on squeezing your glutes actively when you stand.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 12 reps per side Why: The classic split squat is a strong starter move to unilateral leg training, and it'll work your glutes in two ways. First off, your glutes will play a key role stabilizing your body when you're in the bottom position. Your glutes will also power you back up to standing. Make sure to keep your hips and shoulders square at the top, an underrated glute challenge.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 4 sets of 10 to 12 reps per side Why: One of the toughest parts of the standard Bulgarian split squat (and many of the other variations listed here) is working with a heavy load, since it challenges your balance and grip strength. This variation allows you to work with even heavier weights—which will help you build strength and muscle—by adding a stop between each rep. Make sure to focus on resetting your position and driving up powerfully on each rep. How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 6 to 8 reps Why: This simple exercise can be much more effective than you might expect. The key here is to make the wall sit a position of work, not one of rest—so instead of relaxing into the wall, squeeze your glutes continuously to create constant tension.  You can add weight to make the move more effective, but before you grab a dumbbell, kettlebell, or plate, focus on hammering that constant tension first.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 30 to 60 seconds Why: Yes, the initial move on here, the elevated, feet-close goblet squat, blasts your quads. But once you step off that elevation with quads already fatigued, it's your glutes and hamstrings that must carry you to the end in a vicious series that piles up reps.   How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 sets Why: The classic deadlift is a full-body move, but it also pummels the glutes as well. It's your glutes that serve as a key driving force in the movement, and if you don't squeeze your glutes hard at the top, you won't truly stand all the way up. Novice lifters sometimes substitute arching their back at the top of each rep, but make an effort to squeeze your glutes to get the most out of the movement.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 sets of 6 to 8 reps Why: This deadlift variation is great for taller lifters who might struggle with the standard version of the exercise because of their long legs. It also offers your glutes a challenge—in order to get into the sumo stance (legs wide, feet pointing out), you'll need to contract your glutes. Bonus: since you'll be working within a shorter range of motion, you might be able to pull heavier weights than with a conventional stance (once you master the form, of course).  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 4 sets of 6 to 8 reps Why: The Romanian deadlift will hammer both your glutes and your hamstrings. Again, the key here is how you use the deadlift to drive into true hip extension. As you lower down, you should "feel" your hamstrings and glutes stretch. When you stand up, you must actively squeeze your glutes, driving your hips slightly forward. The eccentric portion of the movement should help you "feel" hamstrings and glutes, then you get to activate them during the concentric portion of the lift.   How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 10 reps Why: Standard RDLs with a barbell is a great way to work your glutes and hamstrings with as much load as possible, but you can focus in on the muscle and add a new element by grabbing a set of dumbbells and pausing. This will help to alleviate a common form issue too; sometimes, overeager lifters allow their hips to rise too fast, which can put stress on the lower back. Home in on your tempo and add a pause halfway through the lift to keep your hips in the right place.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 10 reps Why: The classic back squat will help blast your quads, glutes, and hamstrings altogether. It's going to fire up your glutes more than you think, too, and it requires strong glutes. Additionally, the back squat forces you to lean your torso forward just slightly, a challenge that requires your glutes to come into play more than you may expect.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 to 4 sets of 8 to 10 reps Why: The box variation of the squat is underrated for both leg and glute development. Lowering slowly to the box is key here, asking quads, glutes, and hamstrings to fire up eccentrically and maintain control the whole way down. This is also a great chance to work on opening your knees as you squat, and doing so occurs only when you squeeze your glutes, driving your hips into external rotation.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 sets of 8 to 10 reps Why: The single-leg deadlift works your glutes in two ways. First off, you're training your glutes much as you do when you do traditional deadlifts: You'll be squeezing them actively at the top of each rep on the side with your foot on the ground. You'll also be doing something else: Your glutes on both sides must stabilize in the "frontal" plane, keeping you from tipping from side to side. It's glute mayhem when done right.  How to Do It: Sets and Reps: 3 sets of 8 to 10 reps per side The Moves You Need for Hamstring Muscle The 20 Best Leg Exercises of All Time 10 Deadlifts You Can Do With Just a Pair Dumbbells Stop Doing Jump Squats Like a CrossFitter Try This Strength-Yoga Hybrid Workout Why Your Body Needs the Lateral Lunge This Split Squat Will Make Your Glutes Explode These 10 Moves Will Build Monster Quads Treadmills That Deserve a Spot in Your Home Gym MLS-Player Approved Soccer Bags How to Get Last-Minute Tickets to the US Open How Raheem Mostert Hit His NFL Stride After 30 A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.