If you hold a Queensland driver licence, you must tell the Department of Transport and Main Roads within 14 days if you change your name or address. When you tell us that you have changed your name, address or sex descriptor, all products you have with the Department of Transport and Main Roads in your name will be updated, including your: You do not have to pay a fee to change your name, address or sex descriptor. We have an address list from Australia Post that gets new updates every 3 months. If your address is new, it might not be in our system yet, which means you can't update it online. To make sure your address is accepted, use the one shown on your official bills like council rates, electricity, or phone. If what you enter doesn't match our list, the system may correct it. It is important you make sure that your address is correctly recorded with the Department of Transport and Main Roads. Update your address details online. If you have a Queensland licence you cannot have an interstate residential address, but you can have an interstate postal address. When you notify us of your new home address, always write or say your address exactly as it appears on your household bills (e.g. your rates or electricity bill). Once you have told us of your change of address, within 21 days you will get a label showing your new address, to put on your licence. To change your address, you must do one of these things: If you update your address by post, send your letter to: Department of Transport and Main RoadsPO Box 5232BRISBANE QLD 4001 Your letter must include your: Use this online service to let us know you have changed your address. You can update your address details online. When you tell us that you have changed address, your residential and postal address will be changed for your: You can only change your personal address. Contact the Department of Transport and Main Roads if: To update your name on your licence, visit a transport and motoring customer service centre and bring: You don't need to fill out a change of details form  when visiting a Department of Transport and Main Roads Customer Service Centre to apply for a replacement driver licence. You will need to complete the change of customer details form (F4214) if: Your replacement licence with your updated name will be mailed out to you. It is mandatory to record a sex descriptor for the issue of a licence. This may be Male, Female or another sex descriptor recorded with the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registry. The sex descriptor does not appear on your physical licence or any other TMR product. We use this information for research to enhance our road safety initiatives. When you apply for a TMR product, your sex descriptor will be recorded from your identity document. If it is not on that document, you will be asked what your sex descriptor is, and this will be recorded. If you change your sex descriptor with the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registry in Queensland and want to update your licence record, you can bring your new certificate to a transport and motoring customer service centre. You can update your address details online.  Remember to also update your  address details with Linkt,  the toll payment provider, if you have a toll tag account. 13 QGOV (13 74 68) Help us improve the content on our website or tell us what is working really well. Please contact us. 
                                This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
                                Privacy Policy and
                                Terms of Service apply.
                             We pay our respects to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ancestors of this land, their spirits and their legacy. The foundations laid by these ancestors—our First Nations peoples—give strength, inspiration and courage to current and future generations towards creating a better Queensland.
            