This application package has: The instruction guide: Read the instruction guide completely and then fill out each of the applicable forms. The forms are designed with questions that will help the processing of your application. This guide uses these symbols to draw your attention to important information: What you must do to have your application processed. Important information that you need to know to avoid delays or other problems. Where to get more information. Tips that will help you with this application. This application is for persons who want to voluntarily renounce their status as a permanent resident of Canada. To renounce your status as a permanent resident, you must: Note: In cases where the client is under 18 years of age, all legal guardians must consent in writing to the client renouncing their permanent resident status. There are multiple situations in which a person might wish to renounce their permanent resident status including: Note: You do not need to renounce your permanent resident status in order to become a Canadian Citizen. If you renounce your permanent resident status, you will permanently change your status in Canada as of the day your application is approved by an officer. You will not be able to appeal the decision to the Immigration Appeal Division (IAD). You will no longer be a permanent resident of Canada. You will no longer be eligible to apply for Canadian citizenship. Any application for Canadian citizenship that is still in process will be refused. Your family members do not need to renounce their permanent resident status if you do. They can remain permanent residents. However, when IRCC receives your application to renounce your permanent resident status, it will suspend any active family class sponsorship applications you may have already submitted. If your application to renounce your permanent resident status is approved, any sponsorship application that is still in process will be refused. The applications for permanent residence of any family you have sponsored that are still in process will also be refused. The processing fees will not be refunded. If you renounce your permanent residence in Canada, you will lose access to social and health services provided to permanent residents by the Government of Canada or your province or territory of residence. You may still qualify for certain benefits such as those related to the Canada Pension Plan and Old Age Security, but there may be exceptions. If you receive or plan to receive social services or benefits from the Government of Canada or from a province or territory, you should contact the appropriate authorities within the federal government or the province or territory. They can tell you if you have to be a permanent resident to receive the service. If you are inside Canada and your renunciation has been approved, you will be considered a temporary resident (visitor) in Canada. You are allowed to remain in Canada for six months as a temporary resident. If you would like to remain in Canada longer than six months, you must apply to extend your stay in Canada. You will no longer be allowed to work or study without authorization from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC). Yes. However, you may need to apply for a temporary resident visa (TRV) or an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA), depending on your country of citizenship and the purpose of your visit and the travel document you will be using. If you wish to apply for a TRV, you must submit your visa application separately from your application to renounce your permanent resident status. TRV applications must be submitted following the existing instructions for submitting TRV applications, while Voluntary Renunciation of PR status applications must be sent in a separate envelope by mail to the IRCC visa office. If you are applying for an eTA , you will have the option of renouncing your PR status electronically. After you apply for an eTA, you will be provided with detailed instructions on how to renounce. Your renunciation in this context will be completed online through a secure account that you will need to create as part of the eTA application process. Instructions will be sent to you to explain how to do this.  Yes you can, but you will not lose your protected person status. If you remain in Canada, you can continue to live as a protected person in Canada and you may be eligible for a work or study permit. If you leave Canada or are already outside of Canada, your protected person status is not a guarantee of re-entry into Canada. You may have to obtain a temporary resident visa (TRV), an electronic travel authorization (eTA), a work permit, or a study permit, depending on your country of citizenship and the purpose of your visit and the travel document you will be using. Use the Document Checklist (IMM 5783) (PDF, 301.98 KB) to assist you in gathering the necessary documents. Note: If any of the required documents are missing, or photocopies are not clear and legible, your application will be returned to you.  Consult the following examples to determine which documents to include with your application: If you have legally changed your name, If you have changed your name as a result of marriage, adoption or divorce Examples of documents to include: If you have applied for an amendment to your Record of Landing or Confirmation of Permanent Residence, A clear and legible photocopy of one of the following: NOTE: if the names of both parents do not appear on the birth certificate, include also a baptismal certificate, a civil registry document, a school transcript or a national identity card which carries the name of the child and both parents. Make one photocopy of the original forms once you have filled them out. Sign the original forms. NOTE: If the application is for a client under the age of 18, signatures of client and ALL parents or guardians are required. See Step 4 below for information on where to send your application. Keep this set for your personal records. Follow the step-by-step instructions below to complete the application forms. The following forms must be filled out and submitted for all clients: Complete all sections. If a section does not apply to you, write “Not Applicable” or “NA”. If your application is incomplete it may be returned to you and this will delay the processing of your application. If you need more space for any section, print out an additional page containing the appropriate section, complete it and submit it along with your application. Write your full family name (surname/family name) as it appears on your Record of Landing (IMM 1000) or Confirmation of Permanent Residence (IMM 5292 or IMM 5688) or Permanent Resident Card). Write all of your given names (first, second or more) as it appears on your Record of Landing (IMM 1000) or Confirmation of Permanent Residence (IMM 5292 or IMM 5688) or Permanent Resident Card). Write all of your other names (first, second or more) for example, maiden name, son/daughter of, other family name, other given name. Select your gender as F-Female, M-Male or X-Another gender. Write your complete date of birth. Indicate your place of birth, including the city or town. Select your current marital status: Single: Never been married nor in a common-law relationship. Married: Married means that two people have had a ceremony that legally binds them to each other. This marriage must be recognized under the laws of the country where it was performed and under Canadian law. Widowed: Widowed means that a person’s spouse has died and that person has not remarried or entered into a common-law relationship. Divorced: Divorced means that a court has granted a divorce and that a marriage has ended. The two people are no longer married. Legally Separated: Separated means that two people are married but no longer living together, and they do not wish to live together again. They may be waiting for a divorce or have not yet decided to divorce. Common-Law: A person who has been living with another person in a conjugal relationship for at least one year. The term refers to opposite-gender and same-gender relationships. See the legal definition of common-law partner. Write the date and place (including city and province) of where you became a Permanent resident. (As it appears on your Record of Landing (IMM 1000) or Confirmation of Permanent Residence (IMM 5292 or IMM 5688). Write the document number on your Record of Landing (IMM 1000) or Confirmation of Permanent Residence (IMM 5292 or IMM 5688) or Permanent Resident Card. Write your current passport or travel document number. Make sure there is no space between each number or letter. Write the date your passport was issued and the expiry date. a) Check the appropriate box if you are a citizen of a country. 
      If yes, indicate of which country (ies). b) Check the appropriate box to indicate if you are a permanent resident of another country.
      If yes, indicate of which country (ies). c) Write in which country (ies) you can legally return to. a) Indicate your current residential address include the following information:  b) Indicate your current mailing address, if different from above by typing the following information: Note: All correspondence will go to this address. c) Indicate the address in Canada you intend to visit, include the following information: Complete this form only if you: If you have dependent children aged 18 years or older, they are required to complete their own copy of this form if a representative is also conducting business on their behalf. A representative is someone who provides advice, consultation, or guidance to you at any stage of the application process, or in a proceeding and, if you appoint them as your representative by filling out this form, has your permission to conduct business on your behalf with Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) and the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). You are not obliged to hire a representative. We treat everyone equally, whether they use the service of a representative or not. When you appoint a representative: 
Important information:
 
 You must notify IRCC if your representative’s contact information changes, or if you change your representative, or cancel the appointment of your representative. For more information on updating IRCC with your representative’s information, please see below section - Notify IRCC about any changes. Uncompensated representatives do not charge fees or receive any other form of consideration or compensation for providing advice or services to represent you before IRCC or the CBSA. Uncompensated representatives include: Note: You do not have to pay someone for them to be your representative. IRCC will conduct business with an uncompensated representative if an applicant appoints them on their behalf. Compensated representatives charge a fee or receive some other form of consideration in exchange for the representation that they provide. It is important to know that anyone who represents or advises you for payment - or offers to do so - in connection with IRCC proceedings or applications is breaking the law unless they are an authorized representative or they have a specific agreement or arrangement with the Government of Canada that allows them to represent or advise you. This applies to advice or consultation which happens before or after a citizenship or an immigration application is made or a proceeding begins. IRCC will only conduct business with compensated representatives who are in good standing with their designated regulatory body. For more information see - Find out if your representative is authorized. Note: If a representative is being paid or compensated by someone other than you, the representative is still considered to be a compensated representative. Authorized representatives are: If you appoint a compensated representative who is not a member in good standing of one of these designated bodies, your application will be returned. Learn about using a representative. Write your last name (surname or family name) and given name(s). Write your date of birth. Write your IRCC’s Identification (ID) or Unique Client Identifier (UCI) number (if known). If you have not dealt with IRCC since 1973, you will not have a UCI or a Client ID. Write your representative’s full name.  If your representative is a member of the College of Immigration and Citizenship Consultants (CICC), a law society or the Chambre des notaires du Québec, print their name as it appears on the organization’s membership list. Check one box to indicate if your representative is uncompensated or compensated. Write your representative’s contact information. If you are appointing a student-at-law to represent you, include their supervising lawyer’s information including their membership ID. Note: By indicating your representative’s e-mail address, you are hereby authorizing IRCC to transmit your file and personal information to this specific e-mail address. To accept responsibility for conducting business on your behalf, your representative must: Fill in this section if you wish to cancel the appointment of a representative. Write the representative’s full name. Complete all sections of the form if you wish to both cancel a representative and appoint a new one. By signing, you authorize IRCC to complete your request for yourself and your dependent children under 18 years of age. For sponsorship application, your spouse or common-law partner does not have to complete a separate request. If your spouse or common-law partner is included in this request, they must sign in the box provided. To authorize IRCC to release information from your case file to someone other than a representative, you will need to complete the form Authority to Release Personal Information to a Designated Individual (IMM 5475) (PDF, 593 KB). The form is also available from Canadian embassies, high commissions and consulates abroad. The person you designate under that form (IMM 5475) will be able to obtain information on your case file, such as the status of your application. However, they will not be able to conduct business on your behalf with IRCC. Send this form along with your application to the office listed in the guide of your application. You may use this Web form to upload the IMM 5476. or; If you know which IRCC office is processing your immigration or citizenship application, send the completed form to the office mailing address. Consult IRCC office mailing addresses. You must let IRCC know if any information changes regarding the person you authorized to represent you on your application. Send the Voluntary Renunciation of Permanent Resident Status form and supporting documents to the IRCC office closest to you. Consult IRCC office mailing addresses. You will receive a letter from IRCC which includes the Voluntary Renunciation of Permanent Resident Status form. You will be asked to complete the form and submit it and your supporting documents online through a secure IRCC account. You will not be able to follow these steps unless you are asked to do so from IRCC. The letter will also include instructions about how to create a secure account. There is no fee for voluntarily renouncing your permanent resident status. If you are applying for any other documents (for example, a TRV or eTA) along with the application to voluntarily renounce your permanent resident status, you must pay the application processing fee for the other document(s). If you currently live in Canada: Send your complete application with all supporting documentation to the following address: (Your name)
    (Your address) 
    (Your postal code) Recipient Renunciation of Permanent Resident Status
      Citizenship and Immigration Canada
      Operational Support Centre
      365 Laurier Avenue West
      Ground Floor Mailroom, South Tower
      Ottawa, Ontario 
      K1A 1L1 If you currently live outside of Canada: Send your complete application with all supporting documentation to the Canadian visa office responsible for your country of citizenship or legal residence. Where are you applying from? You must have legal status in that country. If you want to visit Canada and require a TRV based on your country of citizenship or the purpose of your visit, you must submit your TRV application separately from your Voluntary Renunciation of PR status application. TRV applications must be submitted following the existing instructions for submitting TRV applications, while Voluntary Renunciation of PR status applications must be sent in a separate envelope by mail to the IRCC visa office. We recommend that you apply for Voluntary Renunciation of your PR status first, and apply for your TRV or eTA once you receive the approval of your Voluntary Renunciation. Note: If you choose to renounce your PR status after you submit an eTA application, your Voluntary Renunciation of Permanent Resident Status application must be completed and submitted online through your secure online account in order for IRCC to continue processing your eTA application. You will be provided with instructions on how to do this after you apply for an eTA. Before submitting your application, ensure that all forms have been filled out and signed and that you have included all supporting documentation. Your application will not be processed if even one document is missing. Make sure you use the Document Checklist (IMM 5783) (PDF, 301.98 KB) and attach it to your application. Upon receiving your completed application, an officer will review your file and determine whether you meet the requirements to renounce your Canadian permanent resident status. If your application is approved, you will be provided with a document confirming that you no longer have permanent resident status in Canada. For more information about the programs offered by IRCC, visit Immigration and Citizenship. Your personal information is: 
For more information.
  For more information about the protection of your data, visit the Help Centre.  If you need help, you can find answers to your questions by visiting the Help Centre. Take this information with you to the photographer The photos must be: The back of one (1) photo must: 