Vienna, MAR 2023; tubics.com, a leading enterprise SaaS platform for data-driven video marketing, is pleased to announce the launch of the 3rd edition of the YouTube Marketing Conference, which will take place on March 28th, 2023. This year’s conference will be the B2B edition, focusing on all topics Video Marketing for B2B marketing decision makers. The YouTube Marketing Conference is a digital event designed to bring together leading experts in the video marketing industry to share insights, best practices, and case studies that will help participants improve their B2B video marketing game in 2023. The conference offers a unique opportunity to learn from the best in the industry and network with like-minded professionals. “We are thrilled to announce the 3rd edition of the YT Marketing Conference – The B2B Edition,” said Claudia Eder, CSO of tubics.com. “Our goal is to provide B2B marketing decision-makers with the latest and greatest insights into video marketing and to help them level up their game in 2023. The conference will be packed with valuable content and actionable takeaways that will help attendees achieve their marketing goals.” The conference will feature a range of presentations, panel discussions, and workshops covering topics such as B2B video marketing strategy, video production, video distribution, and video analytics. Speakers will include industry leaders and experts in video marketing, as well as executives from top B2B companies. “The YT Marketing Conference is a must-attend event for any B2B marketing decision-maker looking to stay ahead of the curve in 2023,” said Eder. “We encourage all marketers who are serious about video marketing to register for the conference and join us for a day of learning, networking, and inspiration.” We have a special offer for all Techbullion readers: 50% off with the promo code TECHBULLION. Visit www.ytmarketingconference.com for more information.  tubics.com is the leading enterprise SaaS platform for data-driven video marketing. The platform helps businesses of all sizes to optimize their video content for search and social media and to measure and analyze the impact of their video marketing efforts. The company’s mission is to empower businesses to use video as a strategic tool to drive growth and build brand awareness. If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... The rise of child anxiety Based on recent academic sources, child anxiety appears to... A U.S. judge temporarily halted the introduction of a new sports streaming service, supported... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.