You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Apr 19, 2023, 11:55am Digital banking (online and mobile banking) makes managing finances easy. With digital banking technology, you can pay bills, deposit checks and transfer money from wherever you’re located. Due largely to their convenience, online and mobile banking are the two most popular ways to bank. More than three-quarters of Americans (78%) prefer to bank digitally, according to a March 2022 Ipsos-Forbes Advisor survey. But how secure are online and mobile banking? And is your information safe? While reputable financial institutions implement a slew of security measures, you can take some steps on your own to keep your financial and personal details out of the hands of hackers. It’s easy to protect your information while still leveraging the convenience of online banking. Use these six strategies to ensure you’re the only one eyeballing your balance. Your password can create an opening for hackers, even if you don’t realize it. Some common mistakes you may be making with online banking passwords include: Those things can make it easier to remember your passwords, but they make it easier for hackers to guess your password and access your online banking information. Here are some tips for creating stronger passwords for banking online: Update your online banking passwords regularly. Change them every three to six months to lower the odds of your password being stolen or decoded by hackers. And consider using a password manager to store and protect your passwords—and make using longer and more complicated passwords easier. Two-factor, or multifactor, authentication can add a second layer of security verification when logging in to your online or mobile banking account. First, you enter your login name and password and then you have to pass a second security test. For example, you may need to enter a special code, verify your account through an automated phone call, use biometric verification or identify an image. This makes it difficult for a hacker or identity thief to unlock your account, even if they have your online or mobile banking password. Ask your bank or credit union if two-factor authentication is an option and how to enable it. Public Wi-Fi is convenient when you need to stay connected on the go, but you can’t count on it to be secure. According to NortonLifeLock Inc., the consumer cybersecurity provider, some of the most significant security risks posed by public Wi-Fi include: It’s best to avoid using online or mobile banking when you’re on a public Wi-Fi network. If you must access online banking or mobile banking with public Wi-Fi, here are some tips to stay secure. Banking alerts notify you when certain actions occur. You receive near-instant notifications of any potentially fraudulent or suspicious activity. It’s often possible to receive email or text alerts for the following: If you get an alert and suspect fraudulent or suspicious activity, contact your bank or credit union immediately and change your online and mobile banking passwords. Phishing is one of the most common methods identity thieves use to gain access to personal and financial information. This kind of scam usually involves tricking you into giving up your information. Phishing scams can take different forms, but they’re often email or text scams. For example, you might get an email that looks like it came from your bank, telling you that you must log in to your account and update your information. You click the link and log in to what appears to be a legit site but is a dummy site. Or, clicking a link downloads tracking malware to your computer, allowing identity thieves to log your keystrokes. Either way, you’ve given up your login details without realizing it. For this reason, it’s important to scrutinize closely any emails that request financial or personal information. Here are some tips for avoiding online banking phishing scams: Financial apps, including mobile banking apps, can help with banking, paying bills, sending money and shopping. But they’re not equally secure. If you plan to use your bank’s mobile app, make certain you’re using its official app. The best way to do that is to download the app from your bank’s website. If you’re downloading the app from the App Store or Google Play, verify that it’s legit by checking the developer details and reading reviews. Consider which apps you allow to access your online and mobile banking details. For example, you might want to use a budgeting app to manage your money. These apps generally ask you to share your login credentials to pull information and create a financial picture, putting your data at risk. Before downloading a financial app, check its ratings. Research the app’s security policies and look for past data breaches. Online banking is a safe way to manage your money when your bank follows strict security protocols and you’re aware of how to spot potential security threats. Banks utilize various security measures to protect customer information. Those measures can include: Although it may be tempting to log in to your bank’s website or app from your phone while you’re out and about, using an unsecured network can have real consequences. Watch out for: Although there are risks to banking online, secure digital banking has benefits that outweigh those risks. These include: Data security refers to banks’ strategies to keep customers’ data secure. The primary goal is to protect any personal information from unauthorized access. According to the American Bankers Association, a trade association for the U.S. banking industry, some of the most commonly used data security measures include: Banks must report a data breach to regulators within 36 hours if that breach is likely to materially affect banking operations. The rule, effective in May 2022, is a joint effort by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency to enhance accountability in the banking industry. With this new rule, banks have an even greater incentive to take measures to protect customers’ data security. 
 Online banking offers convenience and control over your financial life. You can mitigate the risks by being proactive and protecting your online banking information. Doing so decreases the odds of your information ending up in the wrong hands. Forbes Advisor Banking Expert Rebecca Lake and Writer Rachel Murphy contributed to this article. Some of the biggest security issues associated with online banking include malware or phishing scams to intercept or steal customers’ personal and financial information. Online banking is safe. However, hackers are constantly at work, finding new ways to get around security measures. The safest way to bank online is to access your bank’s official online or mobile banking app using a secured Wi-Fi connection. Banking with unverified or untrusted apps or over unsecured Wi-Fi connections could leave you vulnerable to cyberattacks. Mobile banking is considered safe if you use a secure internet connection and access your accounts from a trusted app. You can add extra layers of security by setting up multi-factor authentication and employing your phone’s security tools, such as fingerprint or face ID. Several banks have state-of-the-art security features, such as encryption, biometrics and multifactor authentication. Many banks also offer instant alerts for unusual account activity and the ability to turn your debit and credit cards on or off from the app or website if your card is lost or stolen. 

 Rebecca Lake is a certified educator in personal finance (CEPF) and a banking expert. She's been writing about personal finance since 2014, and her work has appeared in numerous publications online. Beyond banking, her expertise covers credit and debt, student loans, investing, home buying, insurance and small business.