The all-star tribute concert  "Still Playin' Possum: Music and Memories of George Jones," which took place during April in Alabama, comes to movie theaters on Tuesday, Oct. 17 (Courtesy Fathom Events) Taylor Swift’s isn’t the only concert film coming to theaters this weekend. “Still Playin’ Possum: Music and Memories of George Jones” was filmed during an all-star tribute concert in April in Huntsville, Ala., commemorating the 10th anniversary of the country legend’s death. Performers include Jelly Roll, Brad Paisley, Tanya Tucker, Dierks Bentley, Travis Tritt, Wynonna with Jamey Johnson, Trace Adkins, Blackberry Smoke’s Charlie Starr, Joe Nichols and Sam & Dave’s Sam Moore, among others. “Still Playin’ Possum” screens for one night only on Tuesday, Oct. 17. Check out fathomevents.com for tickets and theater locations. Other events (all subject to change)... FRIDAY, OCT. 13 Coinciding with a 50th anniversary remixed edition of “The Dark Side of the Moon” Pink Floyd releases the short documentary “Eclipse” on its YouTube channel. The 30-minute film was shot in April in Australia, chronicling fans’ experience listening to the album during a solar eclipse. Lamb of God will also be on YouTube with a free stream of its documentary “Lame of God,” marking the one-year anniversary of its latest album, “Omens.” The film was previously available for a limited one-month on-demand run. The rap duo Run The Jewels (El-P and Killer Mike) throws down at 12:35 a.m. from the Hollywood Palladium, with additional shows through Sunday, Oct. 15. Tickets via veeps.com. Pianist Yoshiki, of the bands X Japan and the Last Rockstars, will be joined by Ellie Goulding and St. Vincent at 2:30 p.m. for a classical concert from Royal Albert Hall in London. Tickets via onair.events. Progressive rock troupe The Korgis (formerly Stackridge) play at 3 p.m. from Chelmsford, England. Tickets via veeps.com. Sweden’s Pain streams the London stop of its I Am tour at 3:30 p.m. Tickets via lookport.live. Little Feat plays at 8 p.m. from Collingswood, N.J. Watch via a subscription to nugs.net. Veteran singer-songwriter Melanie is still with us and playing a Bad Ghost Online Concert at 8 p.m. Tickets via melanieonlineconcerts.anywhereseat.com. Gov’t Mule livestreams its concert from Fort Myers, Fla. at 8 p.m. The group also plays at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 14, from St. Augustine, Fla. Watch via a subscription to nugs.net. Willie Jones II and Gerald Cannon lead an “In the Spirit of Roy” celebration of the late Roy Hargrove at 7:30 and 9:30 from Dizzy’s Club in New York City. Watch via jazzlive.com. Phish’s fall tour hits Chicago at 8:30 p.m. with additional concerts on Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 14-15. Tickets via nugs.net. Billy Strings plays at 9:30 p.m. from Independence, Mo. and at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, Oct. 14. Watch via a subscription to nugs.net. Canadian rockers Metric celebrates the release of the new album “Formentera II” live from The Roxy in Los Angeles at midnight. Tickets via veeps.com. SATURDAY, OCT. 14 The Ragas Live Festival presents 24 hours of continuous music from 60 artists starting at 1 p.m. Watch free via fans.live. The celebration of the late Roy Hargrove’s birthday continues when the Roy Hargrove Big Band plays through Monday, Oct. 16 from Dizzy’s Club in New York City. Watch via jazzlive.com. Pink Talking Fish will be joined by Cirque Troupe Modern Gypsies for a unique concert at 8 p.m. from the Capitol Theatre in upstate New York. Tickets via fans.live. “Madmen and Dreamers,” billed as a “climate change rock musical/opera” debuts at 8 p.m. via stageit.com, with a subsequent airing at 1:30 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 15. Ronnie Milsap, Little Big Town, Trace Adkins, Mark Wills and Mandy Barnett perform at 9 p.m. from the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville. Watch free via circleallaccess.com. Hootie & the Blowfish’s Darius Rucker wraps up his Starting Fires Tour at 10:15 p.m. from Nashville, on the heels of his new album Carolyn’s Boy. Tickets via veeps.com. The quintet Blues Hoodoo plays classic covers at 11 p.m. from the Bez Arts Hub. Tickets via veeps.com. Jenny Lewis and MUNA are featured on this week’s episode of “Austin City Limits” on PBS. Check listings for local channels. “Saturday Night Live’s” return for a 49th season on NBC brings musical guest Ice Spice alongside host Pete Davidson at 11:30 p.m. Check listings for local channels. SUNDAY, OCT. 15 The Grateful Dead celebrates the release of “Wake of the Flood (50th Anniversary Deluxe Edition)” with a special listening session via the Good Ol’ Grateful Deadcast YouTube channel and also via dead.net/deadcast. Robyn Hitchcock is back on the stageit.com platform, with a matinee livestream at 4 p.m. Twiddle jams at 8 p.m. from Lafayette, N.Y. Watch via a subscription to nugs.net. MONDAY OCT. 16 California hardcore favorite Movements celebrates its new album, “Ruckus!,” at 12:30 a.m. from the House of Blues Anaheim. Tickets via veeps.com. TUESDAY, OCT. 17 Saxophonist Rufus Reid and Friends celebrate the late Eddie Harris at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. from Dizzy’s Club in New York City. Watch via jazzlive.com. WEDNESDAY, OCT. 18 Gondwana and Dionysus jam at 9 p.m. from Gainesville, Fla. Tickets via veeps.com. Rapper Macklemore finishes The Ben Tour at 11 p.m from the Hollywood Palladium in Los Angeles. Tickets via veeps.com. THURSDAY, OCT. 19 Jazz bass legend Ron Carter plays with his Foursight Quartet at 7 p.m. from Birdland in New York City. Tickets via veeps.com. Daniel Donato puts his Cosmic Country on stage at 8 p.m. from Ardmore, Pa. Watch via a subscription to nugs.net. Guitar virtuoso Alex Skolnick and his Trio present their “Mood & Mixes” podcast at 9:45 p.m. via stageit.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices