MANCHESTER UNITED legend Rio Ferdinand led the furious reactions to the yellow card harshly awarded to Bruno Fernandes. The Portuguese star was booked towards the end of the first half in the first leg of United’s Europa League quarter final with Sevilla. The 28-year-old slid in to block a Nemanja Gudelj shot near the edge of the box.  The ball hit his arm from point-blank range, but it seemed impossible for him to get his arm out of the way. Fernandes will now be suspended for United in next week’s crucial second leg, and a host of former players and supporters vented their anger at the decision. Ferdinand wrote: “Bruno to miss the 2nd leg.” Another fan tweeted: “Shocking booking.” A fellow supporter commented: “That is absolutely ridiculous. What’s he supposed to do?” The incident occurred just moments after Sevilla’s Erik Lamela escaped a red card after appearing to stamp on Casemiro. And Treble-winning United legend Peter Schmeichel was another that could not believe what he was watching regarding Fernandes after seeing Lamela get away with one. BETTING SPECIAL - BEST FOOTBALL BETTING SITES IN THE UK He told BBC Radio 5 Live: “That's not a yellow card. “The referee has just given a yellow card for something that is a red. “Fernandes threw himself at the ball but where is his hand supposed to go? “I agree with the free kick but it is nowhere near a yellow card.” ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)