Shahid Kapoor had a healthy start to the new year. Why do we say so? Well, then, you probably haven't seen his Instagram Stories. The actor started the day by taking his taste buds on a joy ride. He relished a plateful of yummy pancakes for breakfast. The plate featured a total of three pancakes with a generous chocolate spread, banana toppings and sugar dust. No doubt the pancakes looked every bit yummy. Shahid, along with the picture, wrote a “good morning” note for his Instagram family. Take a look:Also read: Mira Kapoor Enjoys Undhiyu; Says, "I'm Pretty Sure I Was Gujarati In My Last Life"Why only Shahid Kapoor? You too can give a healthy start to your New Year with a host of lip-smacking delicious breakfast options. So are you ready? Keep reading then. Here're 5 Pancakes Recipes You Can Try:1. Banana Pancakes With Caramelised ApplesLet us try and recreate Shahid Kapoor's breakfast platter. Oh, and, you don't have to keep yourself restricted to bananas or apples. Feel free to top it with the fruit of your choice. Get the recipe here. 2. Spinach Pancakes These sumptuous spinach and mushroom-filling pancakes qualify for a healthy breakfast. Here is the recipe for a healthy savoury whole wheat spinach pancake, which will impress adults and kids alike. Click for the recipe here.3. Eggless PancakeEggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Also read: Mira Kapoor Enjoys Undhiyu; Says, "I'm Pretty Sure I Was Gujarati In My Last Life"Why only Shahid Kapoor? You too can give a healthy start to your New Year with a host of lip-smacking delicious breakfast options. So are you ready? Keep reading then. Here're 5 Pancakes Recipes You Can Try:1. Banana Pancakes With Caramelised ApplesLet us try and recreate Shahid Kapoor's breakfast platter. Oh, and, you don't have to keep yourself restricted to bananas or apples. Feel free to top it with the fruit of your choice. Get the recipe here. 2. Spinach Pancakes These sumptuous spinach and mushroom-filling pancakes qualify for a healthy breakfast. Here is the recipe for a healthy savoury whole wheat spinach pancake, which will impress adults and kids alike. Click for the recipe here.3. Eggless PancakeEggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Why only Shahid Kapoor? You too can give a healthy start to your New Year with a host of lip-smacking delicious breakfast options. So are you ready? Keep reading then. Here're 5 Pancakes Recipes You Can Try:1. Banana Pancakes With Caramelised ApplesLet us try and recreate Shahid Kapoor's breakfast platter. Oh, and, you don't have to keep yourself restricted to bananas or apples. Feel free to top it with the fruit of your choice. Get the recipe here. 2. Spinach Pancakes These sumptuous spinach and mushroom-filling pancakes qualify for a healthy breakfast. Here is the recipe for a healthy savoury whole wheat spinach pancake, which will impress adults and kids alike. Click for the recipe here.3. Eggless PancakeEggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Let us try and recreate Shahid Kapoor's breakfast platter. Oh, and, you don't have to keep yourself restricted to bananas or apples. Feel free to top it with the fruit of your choice. Get the recipe here. 2. Spinach Pancakes These sumptuous spinach and mushroom-filling pancakes qualify for a healthy breakfast. Here is the recipe for a healthy savoury whole wheat spinach pancake, which will impress adults and kids alike. Click for the recipe here.3. Eggless PancakeEggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  These sumptuous spinach and mushroom-filling pancakes qualify for a healthy breakfast. Here is the recipe for a healthy savoury whole wheat spinach pancake, which will impress adults and kids alike. Click for the recipe here.3. Eggless PancakeEggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Eggless? Check. Quick and super easy? Check. So without further delay, let's get going. Top this yummy delight with your favourite sweet or probably savoury sauce. Check the recipe here. 4. Soya and Oats PancakesMade with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Made with a handful of oats and soya flour, these pancakes are low on ingredients, but high on energy. What else do we need? Save the recipe right away. 5. Cinnamon PancakesA tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  A tinge of cinnamon brings the perfect aroma to those soft and fluffy pancakes. Don't trust us. Try the recipe yourself. So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  So when are you preparing pancakes for breakfast? We await an invite. Advertisement
                                             Comments  Advertisement
                                             Comments  Advertisement
                                             Comments  Listen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com