A 40-year Bechtel veteran has been named to lead work at the Hanford site vitrification plant as it prepares to start treating radioactive waste for disposal. Brian Hartman succeeds Valerie McCain, the former project director at the nuclear reservation’s Waste Treatment Plant for Department of Energy contractor Bechtel National. She led Bechtel’s work at the vitrification plant from 2018 until her sudden death two months ago. “I look forward to building on the WTP team’s quality culture and collaborative approach to how we do work,” Hartman said. “We have an important mission to protect the environment and the community.” Hartman said he was eager to work with all those with an interest in getting radioactive waste treated for disposal, including the Tri-Cities community, the Washington state Department of Ecology, Hanford’s other contractors and the Department of Energy. “Brian is an exceptional leader with a proven talent for building strong partnerships with customers and creating high performance teams,” said John Howanitz, president of Bechtel’s nuclear, security and environmental business. He will lead final commissioning of the vitrification plant’s Low Level Waste Facility, which will start glassifying the least radioactive waste held in Hanford’s underground tanks and allow its permanent disposal. Hartman also will oversee the team doing the engineering, design and purchasing for the vitrification plant’s High Level Waste Facility. DOE is required by the federal court to start treating the high level radioactive waste stored in Hanford’s underground tanks by 2033. The Hanford nuclear reservation adjacent to Richland in Eastern Washington produced two-thirds of the plutonium for the nation’s nuclear weapons program from World War II through the Cold War. Chemically separating plutonium from uranium irradiated in Hanford reactors left 56 million gallons of radioactive and hazardous chemical waste store in underground tanks, some of it prone to leaking. Construction on the vitrification plant began in 2002. Hartman has extensive leadership experience in project management, engineering and commissioning on thermal power plants and nuclear projects. “His deep experience on complex projects and across all aspects of project management and execution, from development to startup and commissioning, makes him an ideal choice to lead the WTP project forward, Howanitz said. Hartman most recently was Bechtel’s corporate manager of engineering and technology and project execution manager. He headed the global engineering and technology functions for 5,000 professionals in 115 locations across 20 counties. Over the past year he also managed collaborative engineering efforts between Bechtel, NASA and subcontractors to design a new launch facility at the Kennedy Space Center supporting NASA’s Artemis Mission to send astronauts to the moon. He has worked at Bechtel since an internship in 1982. He was elected a principal vice president in in 2013 and a senior vice president in 2020. He is a certified professional engineer and a member of the National Society of Black Engineers. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.