UK Edition My gym is populated by women in expensive leggings who park bloated 4x4s badly and sip skinny lattes while the nanny does the school run. Lovely people, you’d like them. However, the swimming pool is glorious, which is all I care about, so I keep my head down and mind my own business. Until the day a young lad, presumably a member’s son, got into the pool wearing combat fatigues. Because I am a highly trained and experienced journalist, this struck me as unusual. He swam up and down a few times, then stripped off under water, down to his trunks. He swam a few more lengths then got dressed again, still underwater. Curiosity got the better of me. “I’m training for a military recruitment exercise,” he explained. “The Marines?” I asked, impressed. “Special forces,” he said, modestly. I’d love to know if he passed. He can definitely swim lengths in full uniform, which is obviously impressive, but what I really want to know is this: can he park a Chelsea tractor? And if so, could he please teach his mum? A lockdown habit I can’t seem to shake is having a random TV cookery channel on in the background. There’s a brace of Americans: The Pioneer Woman on a ranch in Oklahoma, although given the amount of butter she puts in everything, the pioneers would have died of coronary heart disease long before they conquered the wild west. And there’s Barefoot Contessa in the Hamptons, who fluffs a pile of rocket in a bowl, smirks at the camera and says “How great is that?” But last night it was the turn of our very own Rick Stein, in an old episode from back when his little dog Chalky was still alive. Stein was in Melton Mowbray, where he asked someone the most inspired question ever, one which I will in future ask everyone I ever interview, and I’m not being facetious. Rick: “What do pork pies mean to you?” Man: “Everything, really.” Bliss. With all the hubbub about Prince Harry’s book, it’s a shame the only funny thing he’s said recently was buried in the interminable Netflix documentary. Wanging on about some perceived slight, he referred to “another amazing friend we’ve never met”. It doesn’t get any less surreal however many times you read it. “Another” amazing friend he’s never met? How many people does he count as amazing friends without having met them? Is it possible, these days, that the only way to tolerate becoming friends with Harry is never to meet him? And Harry, has it come to this, when the only people you can count as friends are in fact complete strangers? It’s been three weeks since my broadband went on the blink and the biggest horror isn’t the lack of broadband. Being forced to read a book when I get home, instead of idly scrolling through nonsense on my iPad, is no bad thing. No, the problem is the existential torment of Plusnet calling, then demanding I prove who I am. Why?” I feel like yelling. “You called me!” It’s maddening. They ask security questions to which I don’t know the answer, because like any normal person I use touch or face ID for everything. They were at it again yesterday just as I was about to get on the Tube. “What is the second and fourth digit of the pin number associated with your account?” “How should I know?” I wailed despairingly. “That’s rather the point,” said the voice at the other end. Ann Treneman is away © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.