In a 2010 interview with David Letterman, Goodman said he'd once weighed 400 pounds and that he struggled with yo-yo dieting while playing Dan Conner on "Roseanne". He told the host that every spring he'd finish filming "Roseanne" and lose 60 pounds. "Then I got too fond of the barleycorn. I'd gain it back and then some, every year. It's going to be an ongoing process for the rest of my life," he said. He told People magazine in 2010 that he decided to make a change in 2007. "I know it sounds sappy, but it was a waste," the actor, who was 58 at the time, said. "It takes a lot of creative energy to sit on your ass and figure out what you're going to eat next." So he hired health coach Mackie Shilstone who had trained athletes such as Serena Williams. Goodman started to lose weight after he cut out alcohol, sugar, and started working out six days a week. Shilstone told People: "He remembers what it feels like to be extremely heavy and it's something he doesn't want again." In the interview with People, published in 2010, Goodman revealed he'd lost 100 pounds through this new lifestyle. He said: "I'm breaking a sweat but I'm not going nuts." "This didn't happen overnight," Shilstone told the New York Post in 2015, explaining that he introduced Goodman to the Mediterranean diet. Insider previously reported that this diet is widely considered to be one the healthiest ways to eat, and is linked to good heart health and a lower risk of some diseases.  The diet focuses on vegetables, legumes, seafood, and olive oil, and encourages a reduction of processed and fried foods, red meat, refined grains, sugar, and saturated fat. Shilstone said that Goodman's weight loss success had come about mostly in the previous two years. As well as continuing to exercise six days a week using an elliptical bicycle and treadmill, he also did 10,000 to 12,000 steps every day.  In 2016 in an interview with ABC News, Goodman said that he was first prompted to make a change because he got "sick and tired" of looking at his reflection when shaving. "You don't want to look at yourself. It gets dangerous."  The actor who has struggled with alcohol addiction said: "I was just eating all the time. I was just eating alcoholically. In the old days, I would take three months out, lose 60 or 70 pounds, and then reward myself with a six-pack of bud or whatever and just go back to my old habits." At the age of 63 at the time, he said he couldn't afford to sit still anymore but his new lifestyle gave him the energy to work.  In an interview published on Saturday, Goodman told Rolling Stone he'd lost a total of 200 pounds. Walking the dogs helped him get in a healthy routine, he said. He also enjoyed boxing too, although he stopped due to the pandemic. While he enjoyed "hitting the mitts," he never actually took part in boxing matches. "Once I get whacked in the face, I don't know if I wouldn't lose it," he said. Due to his busy work life, Goodman said he hadn't had the chance to exercise lately but he's hoping to get into a new routine this summer. Advertisement POPULAR CATEGORIES