Weekday calls for all things quick and easy. Amidst our busy schedule, spending hours in the kitchen feels like a distant dream. This is where quick and easy recipes come to your rescue. If you scroll through the internet, you will come across countless recipes that are fuss-free and can be put together in just no time. From one-pot biryani to 5-min mac and cheese - we find a pool of options to try. One such dish that defines comfort for us is Bombay aloo (or aloo Bombay). To put it simply, Bombay aloo is a spicy aloo sabzi that goes well with roti and paratha, and as an accompaniment with dal chawal. You can also refer to it as a distant cousin of North Indian aloo jeera.Why is it called Bombay aloo?According to legends, the name Bombay aloo finds its origin in the British era. History has it, the potato was introduced in India by Portuguese sailors during the early 17th century. Its cultivation was then spread across India by the Britons. The potato was deemed exotic back then and was used to replace several indigenous vegetables.Also Read: Jaiphali Aloo: Make This Rajasthani Recipe Under 15 Minutes For A Quick LunchPhoto Credit: iStockWhat are Bombay potatoes made of?Much like jeera aloo, it is also spice-mixed potatoes cooked to perfection. This dish is prepared using potatoes that are cubed (sometimes parboiled) and then cooked with various Indian spices, including turmeric, cumin, garam masala, chilli powder, salt, pepper et al.How to make Bombay aloo at home? Bombay aloo recipe:As mentioned earlier, Bombay aloo is easy, fuss-free and needs maximum 20 minutes for preparation. All you need to do is, pan-fry baby potatoes and then prepare a masala with ginger, garlic, green chillies, onion, haldi, red chilli powder, coriander powder, jeera powder and salt.Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  According to legends, the name Bombay aloo finds its origin in the British era. History has it, the potato was introduced in India by Portuguese sailors during the early 17th century. Its cultivation was then spread across India by the Britons. The potato was deemed exotic back then and was used to replace several indigenous vegetables.Also Read: Jaiphali Aloo: Make This Rajasthani Recipe Under 15 Minutes For A Quick LunchPhoto Credit: iStockWhat are Bombay potatoes made of?Much like jeera aloo, it is also spice-mixed potatoes cooked to perfection. This dish is prepared using potatoes that are cubed (sometimes parboiled) and then cooked with various Indian spices, including turmeric, cumin, garam masala, chilli powder, salt, pepper et al.How to make Bombay aloo at home? Bombay aloo recipe:As mentioned earlier, Bombay aloo is easy, fuss-free and needs maximum 20 minutes for preparation. All you need to do is, pan-fry baby potatoes and then prepare a masala with ginger, garlic, green chillies, onion, haldi, red chilli powder, coriander powder, jeera powder and salt.Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Also Read: Jaiphali Aloo: Make This Rajasthani Recipe Under 15 Minutes For A Quick LunchPhoto Credit: iStockWhat are Bombay potatoes made of?Much like jeera aloo, it is also spice-mixed potatoes cooked to perfection. This dish is prepared using potatoes that are cubed (sometimes parboiled) and then cooked with various Indian spices, including turmeric, cumin, garam masala, chilli powder, salt, pepper et al.How to make Bombay aloo at home? Bombay aloo recipe:As mentioned earlier, Bombay aloo is easy, fuss-free and needs maximum 20 minutes for preparation. All you need to do is, pan-fry baby potatoes and then prepare a masala with ginger, garlic, green chillies, onion, haldi, red chilli powder, coriander powder, jeera powder and salt.Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Photo Credit: iStock Much like jeera aloo, it is also spice-mixed potatoes cooked to perfection. This dish is prepared using potatoes that are cubed (sometimes parboiled) and then cooked with various Indian spices, including turmeric, cumin, garam masala, chilli powder, salt, pepper et al.How to make Bombay aloo at home? Bombay aloo recipe:As mentioned earlier, Bombay aloo is easy, fuss-free and needs maximum 20 minutes for preparation. All you need to do is, pan-fry baby potatoes and then prepare a masala with ginger, garlic, green chillies, onion, haldi, red chilli powder, coriander powder, jeera powder and salt.Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  As mentioned earlier, Bombay aloo is easy, fuss-free and needs maximum 20 minutes for preparation. All you need to do is, pan-fry baby potatoes and then prepare a masala with ginger, garlic, green chillies, onion, haldi, red chilli powder, coriander powder, jeera powder and salt.Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Then, throw in the fried potatoes, mix with the masala and finally, garnish with coriander leaves.Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Serve hot and enjoy the flavours to the fullest. Click here for the recipe.Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Such an easy recipe; isn't it? So, what are you waiting for? Prepare it today and enjoy a delicious meal during the weekdays. Do let us know how you liked it.Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Click here for more such delicious aloo sabzi recipes.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Advertisement
                                             Comments  About Somdatta SahaExplorer- this is what Somdatta likes to call herself. Be it in terms of food, people or places, all she craves for is to know the unknown. A simple aglio olio pasta or daal-chawal and a good movie can make her day. Listen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com