GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES More on KentOnline News you can trust 21°C | 9°C 5 day forecast   Home   Sheerness   News   Article Sheppey is turning Japanese with the opening of its first sushi bar. YO! Sushi has taken over part of Tesco's supermarket in Bridge Road, Sheerness, and opened a kiosk. Lauren Phillips, 29, who manages the bar, said: "The reaction has been very positive. We had free samples for people to taste when we opened on Wednesday but they went within minutes." The former Minster College pupil has returned to Sheppey after a stint in Newcastle to look after the new venture. She admitted: "It's something a bit different for the Island but people seem to like it. "Many think sushi is just raw fish but we sell curries, noodles, sharing platters, snacks and vegetarian dishes, too. In fact, there is more choice than you can shake a chopstick at!" Lauren, from Sheerness, had never worked for the company before but has experience in the food industry. She has been training at YO! Sushi’ s Kensington kiosk. She added: “We are offering a typical Japanese menu which includes sushi, gyozas, rice and noodle bowels as well as the Little Moon mochi balls. There are 80 options at the kiosk. Everything is prepared fresh on site every day.” Also at the opening was Chi Ng, area manager of the Japanese cuisine chain. It is only the third YO! Sushi kiosk in Kent. The others are in Sevenoaks and Orpington. The nearest YO! Sushi restaurants to Sheppey are in Ashford and Bluewater. The new kiosk is in a corner of the store where the hot chicken counter stood. Food prices start from £1.90, while hot meals begin at £4.50 and sharer platters are £13. A Tesco spokesman said: “We’re always keen to offer a wide range of the best services for our customers." Trying to find the right nursery, school, college, university or training provider in Kent or Medway? Our Education Directory has everything you could possibly need! This website and its associated newspaper are members of the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) © KM Group 2024