The 35-year-old Kim Yo Jong has increasingly become the face of North Korea’s secretive and combative regime. The younger sister to dictator Kim Jong Un led the state delegation at the Winter Olympics in South Korea. She met then-President Donald Trump in 2018. She has made major announcements on the world stage, including last week’s launch of a spy satellite, prompting the United Nations Security Council to hold an emergency meeting. Her title is officially “deputy department director of the Publicity and Information Department,” but there has long been speculation that she is being set up for a bigger role. When rumors about Kim Jong Un’s health began in 2020, she was cited as a likely successor. Whoever rules North Korea wields enormous power given the authoritarian kingdom’s nuclear weapons and constant threats to use them against the U.S. and its allies. But what is known about Kim Yo Jong? Yahoo News spoke to two experts: Sung-Yoon Lee, author of “The Sister: North Korea’s Kim Yo Jong, the Most Dangerous Woman in the World,” and Edward Howell, a lecturer in politics and international relations at the University of Oxford, about the princess and her rise through the ranks of North Korean politics. Howell: She’s the younger sister of Kim Jong Un and the youngest child of the former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il. What we know is that she was born and raised in North Korea but also studied abroad in Switzerland, together with her brothers, under a pseudonym. Howell: What’s interesting about Yo Jong is that she has risen through the ranks as a member of the junior elite in the Workers’ Party of Korea. She worked for the National Defense Commission — the most important institution for national defense. She was then appointed to the Publicity and Information Department in 2014 — one of the main departments of the party and one that is responsible for disseminating propaganda across the kingdom. Over time, she gets promoted to different departments within the party, and in 2021, she was promoted to the State Affairs Commission, which is the most important body of state power over North Korea. Howell: I think she’s useful [to the party] because she reinforces North Korea’s messaging that South Korea and the United States are fundamentally hostile actors, the idea that the outside world will never fundamentally be nice to North Korea, and that North Korea must act accordingly. She has been seen as a sort of unifier among factions within the military and the party. Lee: The rise of a “Nuclear Despotess” is an entirely new phenomenon. North Korea is such a male-dominated, chauvinistic country despite claiming to be a communist system that guarantees gender equality. This sudden rise of a female leader, a sort of a co-crime boss of the family, is in itself an interesting phenomenon. In the past, we’ve seen the royal family, for example, the younger sister of other kids play an important role, but not nearly as important or visible a role as that played by Yo Jong over the past five or six years. Lee: Senior political figures avert their gaze whenever she makes an appearance. They don’t want to be noticed by her because she is such an oddity as a young, powerful person and sister of the supreme leader. There have been reports of her issuing random orders of execution of officials who get on her nerves. It’s hard to corroborate these reports, but they have come from many different regions inside the nation. Lee: A lot of North Korean defectors take the view that there could never be a female leader and they may be right. But I humbly disagree, because I would argue that the North Korean dynasty’s supposedly sacred hereditary bloodline supersedes chauvinistic cultural considerations. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.