YouTube is introducing a new feature that lets users create customized playlist art using generative AI, the Google-owned company announced on Tuesday. The new experimental feature is rolling out starting today for English language users in the United States. The company plans to bring the feature to additional regions and languages in the future. To get started, you have to click on the current default image of a playlist of yours. From there, you can scroll through a number of themes, such as travel, nature, landscape, fantasy, animals and humor. After you select a theme, you can scroll through a selection of prompts. For instance, if you select the animal theme, you can choose to receive an image of a pug "in the style of a Medieval Gothic painting" or "in the style of a Pop Art painting. Image Credits: YouTube Music Once you have made your selections, you can click the "Create" button. You will then receive a series of AI-generated images that you can choose from. After you have found one you like, you can click "save" to have it appear as your playlist art. "The guided experience allows users to effortlessly explore from a range of visual themes and options to create one-of-a-kind cover art that expresses the uniqueness of your personal playlists," the company wrote in a blog post. "Struggling to find the perfect artwork for your 90’s R&B-inspired morning commute playlist? Don’t worry, we got you." YouTube Music also shared that in the coming months, it's going to launch a new feature on the Home tab that makes it easier for users to quickly jump back in and listen to the songs and artists that they have had on repeat. Once users open up the app, they will see their recent favorites at the top of the Home tab. The feature will bring YouTube Music's homepage somewhat in-line with Spotify's, which lets users quickly jump back in and listen to their recent favorites. The company says the launch is part of its efforts to redesign parts of the YouTube Music app to help users easily find and play their favorite music. The new features come as YouTube Music has been introducing new functionality to its service over the past few months. The service recently launched a TikTok-style short-form personalized video feed called “Samples.” Each clip in the feed offers a glimpse into the artist, music video and feel of a song recommended to you. YouTube Music also recently rolled out timed lyrics that let you follow the words on-screen as you listen, along with Comments, so users can express their thoughts in the app. YouTube Music is adding a TikTok-style ‘Samples’ short-form video feed New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.