Advertisement We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more› By Rose Maura Lorre Rose Maura Lorre is a writer on Wirecutter’s discovery team. She has reported on turkey fryers, composters, body pillows, and more. Do you like the idea of composting, but not the idea of maintaining a heap of rotting comestibles? Do you care about keeping stinky food scraps out of landfills, but not about creating compost? For lazy environmentalists like me who want to reduce their own household waste without assigning themselves more chores, there is a simple option: the Redmon Green Culture 65-Gallon Compost Bin. 
This at-home composter requires next-to-zero human effort; just install it on a patch of unpaved ground and feed it some of your scraps. Without demanding any other labor from me, it’s converted hundreds of pounds of food waste into a soil-like substance so dense that the bin’s contents actually reduce in volume over time. My Redmon compost bin hasn’t reached full capacity despite years of use, and except for once or twice out of curiosity, I’ve never even emptied the thing. Our staff favorite is a durable, easy-to-use container that does the hard work of composting for you You could say I treat this vessel less like a composter and more like a personal trash incinerator fueled by Mother Nature. Advertisement For many gardening enthusiasts, the reason to make compost is to have compost. When cultivated properly, compost offers a rich balance of moisture and nutrients that can be mixed into soil or used as mulch to promote healthy, productive growth in all kinds of plants and crops. However, making a quality compost—one that has an ideal carbon-to-nitrogen ratio and that gets hot enough during the decomposition phase to fully break down food bits while killing off potentially harmful pathogens—takes work. You usually have to turn your compost pile, layer ingredients in certain proportions, and occasionally even water the pile so it doesn’t get too dry. All of that is known as active or hot composting, but there is another way: passive or cold composting, which can entail nothing more than dumping random quantities of organic materials into a mound or vessel and letting the elements slowly do their thing. The compost that results from passive composting will take longer to decompose and won’t be as beneficial in a garden, but if your primary goal is to reduce what goes into your garbage, that’s okay. “Not everybody is in a position to do active composting, and I believe in being really open-minded about that,” Linda Brewer, a senior faculty research assistant at Oregon State University’s Department of Horticulture, told me in a phone interview. “Some people don’t have a good back, some people are too busy, and some people would rather be dead than look at decomposing organic waste. All of those are fine reasons to do passive composting instead.” The user guide that came with my Redmon bin states that you can compost “fruit and vegetable peels/rinds, tea bags, coffee grounds, and eggshells,” plus yard waste like grass clippings, leaves, and straw. (I actually throw in all parts of a fruit or vegetable, not just peels and rinds, and I also put in paper products like coffee filters, brown paper bags, toilet-paper tubes, and paper napkins.) The guide’s list of composting don’ts includes dairy, meat, bones, and “fatty food waste,” all of which are likely to attract vermin and need a hotter composting system to fully break down. (More active at-home composters, such as the Mantis Compact ComposTumbler we recommend in our roundup of favorite compost bins, can take on stuff like crab shells, fish bones, and small quantities of dairy, but not meat.) Pet waste is also a no-no, even if it’s in a so-called compostable poop bag, because it can introduce diseases to the bin. The same ground rules appear in the instructions (PDF) for the Algreen Soil Saver Composter, a very similar black-box bin previously recommended by supervising editor Ben Keough. “[My wife and I] didn’t do any animal bits,” Ben says, who owned the Algreen Soil Saver Composter before he moved to a new place. “Just vegetables, fruit, and bread—and my yeast and grain from home brewing.” This is a similar black-box bin we like for passive composting. Brewer (who previously spoke to Wirecutter for our composting 101 guide) said that avoiding cooked, fatty foods should keep any outdoor compost bin pest free, even if it sits on the ground like mine. “You’re putting the low-interest items in there,” she explained. “If rats or other animals are interested in something like raw vegetable matter, they don’t have to come to your compost pile for that. But if you’re putting in leftover lasagna, that’s going to draw some attention.” Advertisement The Algreen Soil Saver Composter user guide estimates that a third of all household waste (including yard waste) can go into an at-home composter. That may not seem like much, but by my conservative calculation, I’ve deposited roughly 1,900 pounds of organic materials into my bin over the past six or so years. My spent coffee grounds alone, at about 5 to 6 ounces a day, account for nearly 40% of that. Despite the fact that I don’t do anything to help my food scraps decompose, my family has had no unpleasant experiences with rodents or funky smells (although, when I pop the bin’s fitted lid to throw in my latest batch of kitchen gunk, I can see flies going to work inside it). Even better, I’ve never turned my compost with a spade or pitchfork, nor have I ever hosed it down, added worms to it, or done any other onerous chores a serious composter might undertake. All I’ve done is dump kitchen waste into the bin and walk away, just like I do when I bring trash from my indoor garbage cans to my outdoor garbage can. The Redmon bin’s black, plastic sides absorb and hold in heat and they’re vented for airflow, so the bin itself does all the work necessary to break down organic matter. The process is so efficient that my bin has never been more than two-thirds full. (My husband did dig a hole about a foot deep that we placed the bin on top of when we set it up to give our pile a head start.) Little hatch doors at the bottom allow access to your compost. Despite my stubborn anti-compost stance, my Redmon compost bin has produced what looks a lot like usable compost, albeit with plenty of still-intact eggshells and plant bits mixed in. In fact, Brewer told me that my hastily made concoction still has value. “I’d put the recognizable items back in for another cycle of composting,” she said. “The rest could be applied as a soil amendment, just a thin layer.” Despite my worst intentions, it seems I’ve made compost after all. This article was edited by Alex Aciman and Catherine Kast. Rose Maura Lorre Rose Maura Lorre is a senior staff writer on the discovery team at Wirecutter. Her byline has appeared in The New York Times, Esquire, Salon, Business Insider, HGTV Magazine, and many more. She lives in New Jersey with her husband, her daughter, one dog, two cats, and lots and lots of houseplants. by Katie Okamoto and Anna Perling No matter where you live or how many kitchen scraps you amass, you can compost if you want to. We compiled tips from five compost experts to get you started. by Katie Okamoto and Anna Perling These tools and strategies for reducing food waste skip the guilt trip and focus instead on a holistic approach to cooking. by Rose Maura Lorre You don’t need a “compostable” bin liner for kitchen scraps, and experts say paper bags or no bag at all are the better choice. Here’s why. by Katie Okamoto Our favorite kitchen compost bins are affordable (or free), easy to clean, and may help you keep up a composting habit for the long run. Advertisement Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). 