UK Edition Anthony Pender has already taken steps to cut costs. The founder of Yummy Pubs has been closing his kitchens earlier, frying less food and shutting earlier on Sundays to save on energy costs. This weekend, his bills will rise further. Much further. On Saturday, the government withdrew the energy support scheme for businesses that helped protect them from the surging prices triggered by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The result for Pender is that his energy bill will go up by £3,400 a month. He said: “We are busy five nights a week and even we are struggling. We shouldn’t be in this position, but with energy relief falling away and wages going up, it will make it very hard to break even.” One option might be to put up prices at his two London pubs — the Somers Town Coffee House and The Victoria — but Pender thinks customers might not stomach more rises. He believes his business will survive, but others will have to reduce opening hours or even close. “In effect, we will be entering a quasi-lockdown by default because of the costs,” he said. Pender is running just one of the thousands of companies in Britain — be they publicans or steelmakers — facing an increase in energy bills, just at a time when corporation tax is rising from 19 per cent to 25 per cent, water bills are going up by an estimated 24 per cent, and the National Living Wage is increasing by 9.7 per cent to £10.42 an hour. The Bank of England has also raised interest rates from rock-bottom lows to 4.25 per cent. The main concern this weekend is among those businesses that locked in prices last year when wholesale prices were higher — they are now down 80 per cent from their peak — and are now receiving less support from the government after the end of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme (EBRS). Introduced after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the EBRS in effect capped the price of energy bills at a cost the government has put at £18 billion. Its replacement scheme, which began this weekend, the Energy Bills Discount Scheme, is expected to cost £5.5 billion and provides a discount on bills that is aimed at the most intensive energy-users, such as steelmakers and the glass and ceramics industry. According to the Federation of Small Businesses, some 370,000 small firms locked in their energy prices when wholesale prices were higher — and in some instances, could face a fivefold rise in their bills. The FSB’s Craig Beaumont said: “The withdrawal of the government’s EBRS scheme means a sudden 300 to 400 per cent increase in energy bills, which is an existential threat to many already struggling with increased inflation, interest rates, taxes and employment costs.” Businesses — from all sectors, including hospitality, retail and manufacturing — are concerned about the implications of higher bills amid tensions with the energy industry over commissions paid to brokers and the higher fixed-rate deals some businesses have ended up on. The Sunday Times had reported in November that UKHospitality was concerned about business customers being locked into prices higher than those available on the wholesale market. Lawyers at law firm Harcus Parker are now exploring whether there are any ways for customers to be released from contracts locking them in at rates higher than market prices. For now, though, businesses will be planning to pass on costs where they can, in order to avoid more radical actions. Manufacturing body Make UK feared companies would have to raise prices, which could add fuel to Britain’s inflation rate, which at 10.4 per cent is at levels last experienced 40 years ago. At Sheffield-based manufacturer Tinsley Bridge, managing director Mark Webber said his bills will increase from £120,000 per month in March to £320,000 for the rest of 2023. Steve Hardeman, managing director of rivets and bolts maker Clevedon Fasteners, based in Sutton Coldfield, said: “Prior to October last year, we were paying £5,000 per month for our electricity. When the scheme comes to an end, that figure will be closer to £16,000 — that type of money could help us employ four more people.” Steve Morley, president of lobby group the Confederation of British Metalforming, has written to business secretary Kemi Badenoch to warn of a “wholesale collapse of manufacturing supply chains” without more intervention. Small shopkeepers, on average, will need to find an extra £500 a month after their support has dropped away, according to calculations by Andrew Goodacre, chief executive of industry lobby group the British Independent Retailers Association. Big names are also concerned. Chicken giant 2 Sisters, owner of Bernard Matthews, has said the poultry sector faces an existential threat from soaring costs, including energy and its £525 million of bonds maturing in 2025 are trading at just 64p in the pound. For the hospitality industry, Kate Nicholls, chief executive of UKHospitality, reckoned there would be a doubling of bills, costing the sector £7 billion. To her mind, the new support scheme “effectively falls away to nothing”. It is not based on a fixed price like the previous scheme, but offers a discount of 1.96p per kilowatt hour for anyone paying over 30p per kWh. As an example, for a business paying 75p per kWh, it would have fallen to 21p under the old scheme, but now would be 73.04p. The current market price is about 28p per kWh — still more than double the price before the Ukraine conflict. Many businesses fixed their bills last year at levels far higher. For businesses on variable rates and coming off fixed rates, the problem is not so acute. A government spokesperson said: “Global energy prices have fallen significantly and are now at their lowest level since before Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine. The new level of government support reflects this welcome fall in prices, but we will continue to stand by businesses, as we have done over the winter.” Few businesses hold out hope for any additional support, although the government has said that energy minister Amanda Solloway met with energy regulator Ofgem, energy suppliers and other bodies last week to discuss what more suppliers can do to help business customers fixed into long-term contracts at high prices. A spokesperson for the industry, at Energy UK, said: “Energy suppliers continue to work with Ofgem, the government and business groups to address the challenges that have resulted from a sustained period of exceptionally high energy costs, which have inevitably led to steep bill increases for some customers – particularly those looking to renew long-term contracts. One key hope for businesses is that they will be able to pass on extra costs. Will Wright, head of restructuring at Interpath Advisory, who has been poised to step in to help businesses in trouble, said many seem resilient. “Whether that changes when the government support drops off, we don’t know … A lot of businesses are putting their prices up and people are bearing it.” © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.