We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage After experiencing a short market downturn in the past two weeks, the non-fungible token market has recorded positive gains this week. The NFT market flipped 20% last week after the United States Securities and Exchange Commission launched attacks against the general crypto industry. Earlier this week, several major players from the traditional financial sector, including “Citadel and Fidelity”, backed up a new crypto exchange stirring up optimism in the crypto industry. The move has attracted a short frenzy in the NFT market. Below we have listed some of the top-selling NFTs this week.  Top selling NFTs this week: Source: CoinGecko.com Bored Ape Yacht Club, an NFT collection from digital asset firm Yuga Labs featuring a limited edition of 10,000, takes the top position in top-selling NFTs this week. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has attracted a trading sales volume of 4,217 ETH. It has a market cap of $729 million and a floor price of $72,999. Mutant Ape Yacht Club, another NFT collection from Yuga Labs featuring a limited edition of 20,000 NFTs, ranks second in our ten top-selling NFTs this week. In the past 24 hours, the Mutant Ape Yacht Club has recorded trading sales of 1,922 ETH. It has a market cap of $280 million and a floor price of $14,336. Azuki is an NFT collection from digital asset firm Chiru Labs featuring a limited edition of 10,000 anime NFTs. In the past 24 hours, the Azuki NFT collection has attracted a sales volume of 1,051 ETH. Azuki has a market capitalization of $312 million and a floor price of $31,213. A wrapped Cryptopunk is an NFT collection featuring a set of original Cryptopunks wrapped with ERC-721. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has recorded a trading sales volume of 934 ETH, ranking fourth in our ten top-selling NFT list this week. The NFT collection has a market edition of $84 million and a floor price of $109,169. Beanz official is another NFT collection from digital asset firm Chiru Labs, featuring a limited edition of 19,950 anime-themed NFTs. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has recorded a trading sales volume of 262 ETH, taking the fifth position this week. The NFT collection has a market cap of $52 million and a floor price of $2,628. HV-MTL is a dynamic NFT collection from Yuga Labs, consisting of a limited edition of 30,000 mechs summoned through a space-time rift. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has recorded a trading sales volume of 234 ETH. During this period, HV-MTL has surged 12% in sales. The NFT collection has a market cap of $45 million and a floor price of $1,632. Bored Ape Kennel Club, another NFT collection from Yuga Labs featuring a limited edition of 9,602 NFTs, ranked seventh in our top-selling NFT list this week. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has recorded a trading sales volume of 205 ETH. The NFT collection has a market cap of $62 million and a floor price of $6,491. Pudgy Penguins is an NFT collection featuring a fixed set of 8,888 NFTs hosted on the Ethereum chain. In the past 24 hours, Pudgy Penguins has attracted a trading sales volume of 131 ETH, taking the eighth spot in our ten top-selling NFT list this week. The NFT collection has a market cap of $76 million and a floor price of $8,566. Bitch Better Have My Money is an NFT collection from lady investor and artist Rihanna featuring a limited edition of 300 NFTs. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has attracted a trading sales volume of 90 ETH, taking the ninth position this week. It has a market cap of $761,767 and a floor price of $2,539. Opepen Edition is an NFT collection featuring a limited edition of 16,000 NFTs hosted on Ethereum NFTs. In the past 24 hours, the NFT collection has recorded a trading sales volume of 78 ETH, closing our top-selling NFT list this week. Opepen Edition has a market cap of $20 million and a floor price of $1,296. In terms of new drops, Wall St Bulls is a new non-fungible token project showcasing the huge potential of giving investors massive returns. The NFT collection was launched by Wall St Memes, a crypto team that launched a similar NFT collection on Ethereum that sold for a record time of 32 minutes. The same team has a rapidly selling presale, which has already raised over $9 million in less than three weeks. PlayDoge (PLAY) - Newest ICO On BNB Chain Rating Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Dominic is a Nairobi, Kenya based crypto news writer enthusiastic about NFTs, DeFi, GameFi, the Metaverse and blockchain tech in general, with five years experience in the field, alongside his own personal trading and investing journey. Dominic holds a Bachelor's degree in Journalism, Media and Mass Communication Studies and has been blogging and producing educational materials for retail investors in… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The ...