Thor: Love and Thunder EXCLUSIVE: Tessa Thompson picks THIS Prince song as Valkyrie's bada*s entrance theme Stree 2 actor Abhishek Banerjee recorded Amitabh Bachchan's entry on Section 84 sets; says, 'I didn't want to forget it' ‘They Reshape Your Body': The Gilded Age Star Carrie Coon Talks About Challenges Of Being In Corset For Bertha Russell Role Angry Young Men Review: The docu-series on superstar screenwriting duo Salim-Javed is raw, honest, personal and like their movies, a BLOCKBUSTER Did Days Of Our Lives Star Jessica Serfaty Find A Tracking Device Hidden In Her Car? Find Out ‘I Became The Kid’: Jeremy Renner Shares How His Daughter Got More Independent After Taking Care Of Him Post Snowplow Accident Did You Know Deadpool & Wolverine's Kidpool Role Almost Went To THIS Favorite Teen Actor; Find Out Who Is Catherine From Love Is Blind UK? All We Know About Reality Star Stree 2: Did you notice how white petals shaped up Shraddha Kapoor and Rajkummar Rao's romance in film? Eeshwar re-release: Prabhas’ debut action flick to hit big screens once again on his 45th birthday Aquarius to Cancer: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Prefer Dating Partners Older than Themselves Virgo to Capricorn: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Never Forgive Cheating as They Consider It a Cardinal Sin Pisces to Cancer: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Have a Proclivity for Making Clumsy And Awkward Blunders Cancer to Leo: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Inspire Hope in Relationships Amid the Darkest of Times Scorpio to Aquarius: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Simply Adore Hiking in Any Weather Gemini to Taurus: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Understand the Ebb And Flow of Friendships Capricorn to Leo: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Have an Undeniably Seductive Vibe Gemini to Aries: 4 Zodiac Signs Who Maintain Their Individuality While Being in a Relationship 55 Best At-home Date Night Ideas for Couples to Foster Intimacy Dave Portnoy Fiercely Slams Storm’s Skylar Diggins-Smith for ‘Assault’ on Caitlin Clark: ‘WNBA Doesn’t Know How’ Joe Rogan Faces Backlash for ‘Bias’ Towards Israel Adesanya During UFC 305 Fight vs Dricus Du Plessis: ‘So B*tthurt’ LeBron James Tried To Dwarf Michael Jordan’s Legacy in 2005 Former NBA Player Claims: ‘Make That Other Number 23 Disappear’ Sean Strickland Demands Rematch With Dricus Du Plessis: ‘You Ain’t Ducking Me’ Drew McIntyre Wants To Face This Former WWE Champion in His Dream Match; Find Out Who Jimmy Butler’s 'Killer Mode' Will Silence Critics This NBA Season, Claims NBA Insider Anthony Edwards Sidelines LeBron James And Steph Curry For Devin Booker As Team USA’s Most Impressive Player  When Peyton Manning Chose His Dad to Present Him at Pro Football Hall of Fame Noah Lyles Responds to Tyreek Hill’s Diss Track After NFL Star Challenges Him to a Race BLACKPINK facts  BTS' Jin flaunts 'close friendship' with B1A4's Sandeul; announces 'variety show genius' return for Half-Star Hotel in Lost Island  Why are NCT's Mark and Chenle sad about fans' lack of reaction over 'falling apart' rumors after unfollowing each other? The Tyrant's Kim Seon Ho opens up on acting journey in reference to Chief Choi's role; 'It's a continuous learning process'  Park Shin Hye embraces cold and cynical transformation in upcoming K-drama The Judge from Hell; SEE PICS Love Next Door Ep 1-2 Review: Jung So Min and Jung Hae In’s emotional rom-com keeps it real and fun Pachinko 2: Lee Min Ho-Kim Min Ha's dynamics with son Noa, Jin Ha's arc; 5 narratives likely to be explored in upcoming season BTS' V's 10 unexpected friendships that only true ARMYs know: Ha Ji Won, Park Bo Gum, and more BIGBANG's 18th anniversary: From BANG BANG BANG to Still Life, exploring K-pop icons' global music takeover Kareena Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan don vibrant salwaar suits for Raksha Bandhan 2024 celebrations Alia Bhatt and Raha Kapoor opt for traditional looks for Raksha Bandhan 2024 festivities Kate Middleton’s top 4 fashion moments that prove Princess of Wales was, is and will always remain iconiqué 5 times Tamannaah Bhatia’s statement-worthy blouse designs took her saree looks to the next level Kareena Kapoor’s love affair with red: Here’s how you can pull off this HOT color in 4 different ways  Aditi Rao Hydari’s Rs 59,800 red bandhani silk saree with Banarasi blouse is made for modern brides Kriti Sanon donning Rs 7,800 denim gingham dress shows us how affordability and style can go hand-in-hand 4 times lil diva Raha Kapoor served fierce fashion inspiration with her adorable outfits Khushi Kapoor’s luxurious bag collection: Sequin Prada purse to denim Chanel bag Kelly Ripa's Weight Loss Journey: Diet, Exercise, And More Charles Barkley’s Weight Loss: How He Lost 60 lbs with Mounjaro Penn Jillette’s Weight Loss: How He Lost 100 lbs with the Potato Diet Megan Thee Stallion’s Weight Loss, Diet, Fitness Routine, And More Jennifer Lopez’s Weight Loss: How the “Hustlers” Star Stays In Shape Brie Larson’s Weight Loss: How the ‘Captain Marvel’ Star Keeps Herself Fit Snooki’s Weight Loss: Weight Training, HIIT, Protein-rich Diet, Etc. How Jennifer Aniston’s Workout Routine Keeps Her in Shape at 55 Sunny Hostin’s Weight Loss: How  Using “Mounjaro” Helped Her Shed 40 lbs Brooke Shields's Plastic Surgery: An Eternal Beauty Or Cosmetic Touch Struggling with Hair Removal? Find Out the Smarter Alternative Heidi Klum's Plastic Surgery Rumors: Did She Go Under the Knife How to Get Rid of Ice Pick Scars: Causes, Prevention, And Treatment 25 Stunning Eye Makeup Looks for Green Eyes And How to Apply Hayden Panettiere’s Plastic Surgery Story: Here’s What We Know Jenny McCarthy Plastic Surgery: Did She Really Go Under the Knife? Sofia Vergara’s Plastic Surgery Analysis: Here’s What We Know Jennifer Aniston’s Plastic Surgery Rumors: How the Friends’ Star Maintained Her Beauty 11 Best Summer Mini Dresses to Turn up the Heat at Every Occasion 15 Best Beach Wedding Dresses for Ceremonies on the Shore 11 Best Spray Sunscreens for a Quick Splash of Sun Protection 13 Best Moisturizers for Sensitive Skin That Hydrate And Pamper It 16 Best Summer Dresses You Need Now to Stay Chic in the Heat 14 Best Midi Dresses from Ethical Brands That Emphasize Sustainability  10 Best Dresses for Tall Women That’ll Make You Look Ravishing 10 Best Green Dresses to Fashionably Hop on the Trend Train  10 Best Holiday Dresses to Embrace Festive Spirits in Style  Sonakshi Sinha and Honey Singh are collaborating together in Kalaastar after almost a decade. Pinkvilla has now exclusively learnt that the actress did the music video for free.   Sonakshi Sinha featured in rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh’s song Desi Kalakaar in 2014. The song was appreciated by many and the chemistry between Sonakshi and Honey Singh seemed to be completely on fire. While it has almost been a decade since the release of the song, the duo has once again collaborated in Kalaastar. Notably, now Pinkvilla has exclusively learned that Sonakshi did the music video for free.  Fans have been left over the moon after seeing Sonakshi Sinha collaborate with Yo Yo Honey Singh after almost a decade. In a piece of exclusive information obtained by Pinkvilla about the song, Sonakshi Sinha did not charge anything for the music video and did it for free.  A source in the know revealed, “We were all eagerly waiting for Honey’s comeback like the rest of the fans. And Sona once again proved to be his lucky charm. I think she was herself rooting for his return most and her excitement is clear as she did the music video free of cost too.” Notably, ever since Kalaastar was released, music lovers have been going gaga over it and shared several reactions to it. A fan commented saying, “Not just a song , it's a celebration.” Another fan reminisced about the reunion of Honey Singh and Sonakshi and noted, “9 years passed away .. but still " desi kalaakar" is in my mind.”   Sonakshi stepped into the world of acting with Salman Khan starrer Dabangg and received a heap of appreciation for her portrayal of Rajjo’s character. Post her debut, the actress proceeded to deliver several other entertaining gigs that include Ranveer Singh starrer Lootera, Noor, R…Rajkumar, Akira, Kalank, and many more. Up next, Sonakshi will be seen in Heeramandi, the first look of which was unveiled earlier this year.  ALSO READ: Sonakshi Sinha recalls Salman Khan’s response on learning about her salary from first job ‘Buy me a gift…’ 
From Jab We Met to Ghajini, Apoorva Jha obsesses over Hindi movies. After having completed her BA and PG 
...
From Jab We Met to Ghajini, Apoorva Jha obsesses over Hindi movies. After having completed her BA and PG Diploma degree in Journalism, she worked at Inshorts for over a year and her love for everything related to Bollywood eventually brought her to Pinkvilla, which is her stepping stone towards becoming an entertainment journalist. She also loves exploring her creative side and indulges in sketching and writing when not working.

 From Jab We Met to Ghajini, Apoorva Jha obsesses over Hindi movies. After having completed her BA and PG  From Jab We Met to Ghajini, Apoorva Jha obsesses over Hindi movies. After having completed her BA and PG Diploma degree in Journalism, she worked at Inshorts for over a year and her love for everything related to Bollywood eventually brought her to Pinkvilla, which is her stepping stone towards becoming an entertainment journalist. She also loves exploring her creative side and indulges in sketching and writing when not working. By providing this information, you agree that we may process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Statement
