
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- ValueWalk) 
In his  Daily market Notes  reportto investors,Louis Navellier wrote:  Table of Contents  show  
jpmorgan absorbs first republic bank
   
all eyes on fed
   
attractive money markets
   
coffee beans: yummy masterpiece
  JPMorgan Absorbs First Republic Bank
Stocks hit the high for the year as first republic bank (NYSE:FRC) was absorbed by JPMorgan Chase & Co (NYSE:JPM).
With the expectationof the Russell 2000, all the major indexes carved out a gain for April on the strength of the major rallyat the end of last week, with stocks now near the high for the year and back where we were a full year ago, before the Fed began to raise rates.Gates Cap Management Reduces Risk After Rare Down YearGates Capital Management's ECF Value Funds have a fantastic track record. The funds (full-name Excess Cash Flow Value Funds), which invest in an event-driven equity and credit strategy read more 
Consider that for theyear to date, the biggest 50 S&P stocks are up 15.4% while the equal-rated Russell 1000 is up only 1.5%. The biggest names are acting as the safe haven as predictions of a recession continue.
Fears of a banking crisis have faded for the moment, albeit the regional bank index is lower this morning as investors consider how the ability for a run on a bank via online withdrawals has changed the game.
JPMorgan, the biggest bank in the country, had to get a provision to become even bigger to absorb First Republic, another sign that bigger is a major advantage this year. All Eyes on Fed
Today's economic numbers showed stability in manufacturing although still in recession, but with slightly higher employment and pricing, adding to expectations that the Fed will raise rates this Wednesday and may not signal a pause, leading interest rates higher today.
I think this is a mistake though, especially in the wake of First Republic Bank being taken over by the FDIC and then acquired by JPMorgan.
The earnings season is far from over and this morning's results continue to be largely beats with no major cuts in 2nd half forecasts.
But the event of the week remains the Fed decision on Wednesday, with their commentary very important given the hopes that the regional banking situation may make them more cautious while the strength of the stock market and still rock bottom unemployment appears to give them room for further increases to push for their 2% inflation target, which is still a long way off.
Attractive Money Markets
The stickiness of housing prices due to the low inventory may hold back the inflation  calculation more than expected. Even if they come across as aggressive it is likely that the trend we've seen of investors seeking shelter in the biggest names will continue, which will support index prices.
The longer stocks hold up, the more all the money on the sidelines will reconsider just how attractive 4% money markets really are.
Coffee Beans: Yummy Masterpiece
A hungry South Korean student ate a banana that was part of one of Maurizio Cattelan's art installations. The artwork, called Comedian, consisted of a ripe banana duct-taped to a wall. After eating the banana, the student taped the peel back onto the wall, with the museum later replacing it with a fresh banana. Source: Sky News. see the full story here . MENAFN02052023005205011743ID1106152039  Stocks hit the high for the year as first republic bank (NYSE:FRC) was absorbed by JPMorgan Chase & Co (NYSE:JPM). With the expectationof the Russell 2000, all the major indexes carved out a gain for April on the strength of the major rallyat the end of last week, with stocks now near the high for the year and back where we were a full year ago, before the Fed began to raise rates. Gates Capital Management's ECF Value Funds have a fantastic track record. The funds (full-name Excess Cash Flow Value Funds), which invest in an event-driven equity and credit strategy read more  Consider that for theyear to date, the biggest 50 S&P stocks are up 15.4% while the equal-rated Russell 1000 is up only 1.5%. The biggest names are acting as the safe haven as predictions of a recession continue. Fears of a banking crisis have faded for the moment, albeit the regional bank index is lower this morning as investors consider how the ability for a run on a bank via online withdrawals has changed the game. JPMorgan, the biggest bank in the country, had to get a provision to become even bigger to absorb First Republic, another sign that bigger is a major advantage this year. Today's economic numbers showed stability in manufacturing although still in recession, but with slightly higher employment and pricing, adding to expectations that the Fed will raise rates this Wednesday and may not signal a pause, leading interest rates higher today. I think this is a mistake though, especially in the wake of First Republic Bank being taken over by the FDIC and then acquired by JPMorgan. The earnings season is far from over and this morning's results continue to be largely beats with no major cuts in 2nd half forecasts. But the event of the week remains the Fed decision on Wednesday, with their commentary very important given the hopes that the regional banking situation may make them more cautious while the strength of the stock market and still rock bottom unemployment appears to give them room for further increases to push for their 2% inflation target, which is still a long way off. The stickiness of housing prices due to the low inventory may hold back the inflation  calculation more than expected. Even if they come across as aggressive it is likely that the trend we've seen of investors seeking shelter in the biggest names will continue, which will support index prices. The longer stocks hold up, the more all the money on the sidelines will reconsider just how attractive 4% money markets really are. A hungry South Korean student ate a banana that was part of one of Maurizio Cattelan's art installations. The artwork, called Comedian, consisted of a ripe banana duct-taped to a wall. After eating the banana, the student taped the peel back onto the wall, with the museum later replacing it with a fresh banana. Source: Sky News. see the full story here . MENAFN02052023005205011743ID1106152039 MENAFN02052023005205011743ID1106152039 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN