American socialite Kim Kardashian was in attendance at the Emirates Stadium on Thursday night as Arsenal were knocked out of the Europa League against Sporting CP Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Arsenal hosted yet another high-profile celebrity star at the Emirates Stadium on Thursday night as Kim Kardashian was in attendance for their Europa League clash with Sporting CP. Kardashian is not the first A-lister to adopt the Gunners as their club of choice with rapper Jay-Z and actors Jamie Foxx, Matt Damon and Andrew Garfield also supporting Mikel Arteta's side. The famous personality arrived in north London to watch Arsenal suffer a disappointing exit from the Europa League as part of filming for a documentary. Her presence at the Emirates Stadium came after her son, Saint, was seen in Arsenal's third kit for his birthday party in January, sparking suggestions that the household are keen fans of the north London outfit. Kardashian shared images on social media from behind the scenes ahead of the match, including snaps of Prime, Arsenal's official sports drink supplier, and pictures of William Saliba, who featured on the matchday programme. The 42-year-old influencer has now posted a video of her video call with Hale End star Bukayo Saka after the penalty shootout defeat to Sporting in which they planned another trip to the Emirates Stadium. READ MORE: Arsenal facing wait on William Saliba injury with Takehiro Tomiyasu out for Crystal Palace In the video, Saka has a conversation with Kardashian and her children as he apologised for not being able to meet up with them after the match. The Arsenal forward said: "Sorry I missed you guys yesterday (Thursday), I was told you were in the Players Lounge - I had a shirt for you!" One of Kardashian's children replied: "We're going to come back if you win the Premier League." The family quickly corrected this to "when" rather than "if" as Saka laughed and responded: "When!" Saka continued: "Tell me when you're coming back and I'll get some t-shirts sorted!" The video featured the caption: "And more surprises...the boys fave player for @Arsenal, @BukayoSaka87." The 21-year-old will hope that he can help the Gunners lift their first Premier League title since 2004 with just 11 games left to play this season. Arsenal could move eight points ahead of Manchester City if they bounce back with a win against Crystal Palace on Sunday, potentially setting up a reunion with Kardashian and her Arsenal-mad children. READ NEXT: Arsenal facing wait on William Saliba injury with Takehiro Tomiyasu out for Crystal Palace Every word Mikel Arteta said on Saliba's injury, Martinelli's miss and bouncing back Takehiro Tomiyasu, William Saliba: Arsenal injury news and return dates ahead of Crystal Palace Mikel Arteta's major William Saliba injury boost after Arsenal vs Sporting Europa League tie Arsenal news and transfers LIVE: All the latest news, rumours and gossip from the Emirates Stadium 