A coalition of Broadway theater owners and producers, midtown Manhattan community and tenant organizations, and such well-known theater-district restaurants as Sardi’s and Joe Allen are among the members of a new coalition pledging opposition to a proposed casino in Times Square. Citing such potential liabilities of a Times Square casino as traffic congestion, economic disruption and social harm including making the area “less welcoming to families,” the No Times Square Casino coalition is urging state gaming officials to reject any casino proposals for the neighborhood. More from Deadline Actors' Equity Members Ratify Three-Year Contract Agreement With Broadway League Jay-Z's Roc Nation Joins Times Square Casino Bid Opposed By Broadway Producers Actors' Equity Says It Was Not Consulted In Mask-Optional Policy; Broadway League Calls New Approach "Entirely Consistent" With Negotiated Protocols - Update “After a decades-long turnaround that revitalized the neighborhood and turned it into a pre-eminent destination for locals, businesses and tourists, Times Square is one of the most vibrant areas in the country,” said Charlotte St. Martin, president of the Broadway League, the trade organization representing theater owners and producers. “We don’t want to see that progress jeopardized by a casino.” The new coalition was formed in response to last year’s announcement by Caesars Entertainment and Manhattan realty company SL Green of their intentions to seek permission to building a Caesars Palace casino at 1515 Broadway, the same building that houses Disney’s long-running musical The Lion King. In December, Jay-Z’s Roc Nation entertainment agency joined the companies’ efforts. New York State’s Gaming Facility Location Board’s is expected to review application requests for new casino’s in the city this year, with competition for the licenses intensifying, the new coalition says. Other potential casino operators have proposed locations throughout the city’s boroughs. Details of the Caesars proposal were released last October, and the concept was quickly opposed by The Broadway League and supported by Actors’ Equity Association, with the labor union representing actors and stage managers citing the potential for new jobs, among other possible benefits. “We believe that Times Square offers the best location for a new resort casino that can attract tourists and benefit local businesses,” said Marc Holliday, CEO of SL Green, at the time. “We’re excited to pursue this license with Caesars and our many local partners. Our approach will ensure that under-represented communities benefit both in terms of employment and investment opportunities.” In the announcement of its formation today, the No Times Square Casino coalition said its members already include the League, The Hell’s Kitchen Neighborhood Association, The Hell’s Kitchen Block Association, The West 47th – 48th Streets Block Association, The Manhattan Plaza Tenants Association, The Clinton Hell’s Kitchen Chelsea Coalition for Pedestrian Safety, Times Square Church, Encore Community Services, The American Bus Association, and The Student & Youth Travel Association. While the names of most of those organizations will likely be recognizable only to residents of the various Times Square area neighborhoods, the membership roster also includes some of the most iconic theater-haunt restaurants in the vicinity. In addition to Sardi’s and Joe Allen, the membership includes Italian restaurant Orso and the popular pre- and post-show watering hole Bar Centrale. Max Klimavicius, owner of Sardi’s, said, “No matter how much emphasis promoters try to place on glitz and glamour, a casino in Times Square has the potential to unravel the fabric of the theater district and jeopardize the fate of its restaurants.” Best of Deadline Deadline Contenders Television 2023 Arrivals & Panels Gallery: Natasha Lyonne, Dominique Fishback, Ali Wong, Riley Keough, Evan Peters & More Hollywood & Media Deaths In 2023: Photo Gallery & Obituaries TV Cancellations Photo Gallery: Series Ending In 2023 & Beyond Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.