By Jack Bezants For Dailymail.Com   Published:  18:06 EDT, 29 July 2023   |  Updated:  19:18 EDT, 29 July 2023      309 View  comments  Jay-Z could make an incredible move to buy English Premier League team Tottenham if owner Joe Lewis is convicted of insider trading. A business associate of the hip-hop star told The Express: 'More than a few of the very top clubs there (England) – like Manchester United, Liverpool and Chelsea – are now under US ownership and Jay would jump at the chance of a controlling interest at board level somewhere with the global reach of Spurs. 'It remains to be seen whether Mr. Lewis will walk away free. If he doesn't, Jay has said he wants to be in a position to move quickly if he feels the price is right. 'He believes this is achievable, especially with the backing of fellow investors.'  The 53-year-old Jay-Z, real name Shawn Carter, already has business partnerships in soccer. His RocNation Sports signed a 'strategic partnership' with the Italian league, Serie A, earlier in July. Jay-Z could make a move to buy Tottenham if the opportunity surfaces in the coming months Tottenham if owner Joe Lewis (center) was indicted in New York this week and pleaded not guilty to allegations of insider trading Jay-Z, who is worth an estimated $2.5billion, is married to popstar Beyonce Knowles  RocNation also represents Romelu Lukaku, the Belgium and Chelsea striker who has previously spoken of how much Jay-Z knows about the game. 'We spent some time together in New York...  He’s a person who follows football a lot, he always follows Inter (Milan). He’s truly a nice person.' Jay-Z has an estimated wealth of $2.5billion, while Forbes valued Tottenham earlier this year at $2.8bn. He is married to singer Beyonce Knowles, who is said to be worth $500m. This week, Tottenham was plunged into crisis when Lewis was indicted in New York on 16 counts of insider share dealing and conspiracy - which he denies. The 86-year old billionaire Lewis is the man originally behind ENIC, which owns 70 per cent of Spurs. Tottenham finished last season down in eighth place in the Premier League and star striker Harry Kane is widely expected to leave the team for German champion Bayern Munich.  But the team has a state-of-the-art stadium in north London - one of the finest venues for sports in the world - that doubles up for hosting NFL games as well as Premier League soccer.   The team last won a trophy back in 2008 and this season has no European tournaments after last year's mid-table finish.  Tottenham has a state-of-the-art stadium that doubles up as a venue for NFL games in London Tottenham is widely expected to lose its captain and star striker Harry Kane to Bayern Munich  Four of English soccer's elite teams are owned by Americans - Stan Kroenke at Arsenal, John Henry and Fenway Sports Group at Liverpool, the Glazer family and Manchester United and Todd Boehly at Chelsea.  Ironically, Jay-Z has previously said that he follows Arsenal - Tottenham's fiercest rival. 'Everybody in the UK knows that I am an Arsenal fan,' he told the NME in 2010. 'When Thierry Henry was at the club I saw him play and I just thought he was an amazing player.  'Ever since then I have been a big fan of the club. I think he had a real long term-effect on the team.' In that same interview 13 years ago, he refused to rule out ever owning a soccer team. 'I am a businessman, and I will always look at an opportunity, and if it feels right great,' he said. 'In the future if the right opportunity presented itself, then who knows?'  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group