UCL Advertisement The Athletic's Daniel Taylor, Seb Stafford-Bloor, Jeff Rueter and Thom Harris came together to give their thoughts on Bayern Munich's 4-3 win — check it out below. GO FURTHER  Advertisement (Photo: Getty Images) Team just do not beat Bayern Munich in the Champions League group stage, it doesn't happen. We told you about their two records before the game and they have just extended them. They are unbeaten in their last 35 group-stage games and have now won their last 14 in a row! Manchester United will probably need to break both of those records if they are to finish top of Group A... And here are the other four groups. Group E Group F Group G Group H So, the first set of Champions League fixtures of the season are done and the groups are already starting to take shape — here is how the first half of the them look after the first round of matches. Group A Group B Group C Group D (Photo: Getty Images) There was plenty of other action around Europe this evening, here is how all of the games finished. Group A Group B Group C Group D Speaking on TNT Sports Onana played in a more stable, functioning environment last season (at Inter Milan) than the one he finds himself in at Manchester United. A lot of people will focus on how he's a great distributor and how Ten Hag has brought him in, in part, for his ability to break lines with his passes but he showed last season that he's a more than capable shot stopper. It's early to say this about Onana, but there's a trend at Manchester United that we've seen for the last decade where top players go there and they regress. It's early to say that's already happening to Onana. Advertisement Speaking on TNT Sports It was strange because Bayern were toying with United at times, they were queueing up to score goals. United somehow found two more goals in the end but it never really felt a tense game. In the second half, Bayern were quite happy to stroll around and they were really wasteful with their attacks. (Photo: Getty Images) Sane was rewarded for his electric performance with the Player of the Match award and he spoke at the collective happiness of his team mates to get off the mark. “We’re delighted to win our first Champions League game of the season and get our first three points," he told DAZN. "The game was a bit wild. For the fans, it must have been fun with so many goals. "Going forward it was great, but we also have to make less mistakes as a collective. There were a few too many tonight and, when we’re 2-0 up, we need to bring a bit more calm into games to control matches." Tel's winning goal was the 14th Manchester United have conceded across the Premier League and Champions League this season. No Premier League side has conceded more. Ten Hag is overseeing a very tough period on the pitch for United, at the moment and the amount of goals they are conceding is the topic of everyone's mind. "I'm disappointed because we should've stayed in the game," the United boss told TNT Sports. "When you score three goals at Bayern, you have to take at least a point. "Mistakes are being made, but you have to bounce back as a team. When a player makes a mistake, it's done, it's gone and, as a team, we have to believe that we can always bounce back." (Photo: Getty Images) It's devastating to make a mistake that determines the outcome of the game and it's harder for Onana with such big shoes to fill at United. He'll be under fire every game and he'll want to come out with a good performace. It takes such mental strength to put an error to the back of your mind and go again for the rest of the game. Fortunately, he'll have the next game to put it right and, heading into the Manchester derby at the end of the month, they have a good run of fixtures. At the end of the day, the team needs you to be focused because there are lots of opportunities to make up for it. Advertisement Plenty of The Athletic subscribers have been having their say in our matchday discussion — which you can find here. Matias R: We are in our 6th game of the season, currently with 9 players out of action. Let's see where we are at Christmas before starting to panic. David O: So I guess the bottom line is that we were a poor mistake and a dodgy pen away from smashing the German champions on their own turf? CL glory, here we come! Dominic E: 4-3 wouldn't be a bad score, if it looked like we actually deserved it. Our defensive organisation is absolutely shocking, the number of goals we concede from people being free in the area is mindblowing. It's not a new thing either, this was happening last season as well, and it's not being fixed. Sridhar K: Fun watch. I don’t think our team has been as bad as it is being made out to be these past few matches and we have several players injured. Be patient guys. It is so hard nowadays, there is nowhere to hide. Social media kills you and, like Onana has done there, you're better off creating your own narrative. To get ahead of it and deal with it shows strong character and it helps with supporters. Credit to Onana for coming out to speak to the press about his error — goalkeepers can do 20 things right but one thing wrong and that's what people remember. Onana made a brilliant save from Eric-Maxim Choupo-Moting as well as numerous good stops from other Bayern chances. But that will all be forgotten - his awful mistake to let in Leroy Sane's tame shot will be how fans remember his performance and he has acknowledged that himself. (Photo: Getty Images) Until Sane's opening goal, United had imposed themselves on the game brilliantly and, unfortunately, the blame for that goal lies at Onana's door. "It's difficult to lose this way because, in the beginning, we started very good," he told TNT Sports. "After my mistake, we lost control of the game. "It's a difficult situation for us, for me especially because I'm the one who let the team down. We didn't win today because of me." Last season, United's issue was that they were solid defensively but struggled to score — De Gea won the Premier League golden glove! They saved money by selling him and by not spending £100m on Kane, but they've wasted the money they did have on a team that isn't good enough. Their wage bill will be bigger than Bayern's but there was a massive difference in quality — it's all about recruitment. Advertisement (Photo: Getty Images) Kane opened his Bayern Munich Champions League account from the penalty spot and was pleased with what he and his team mates were able to produce. "It was a crazy finish, but we controlled the majority of the game, dictated the tempo and went 3-1 ahead," he told TNT Sports. "We lost a bit of concentration in the last five minutes and thankfully we were able to hold onto the lead. "Overall, it's a really good start to the campaign against a tough side." And, on his goal: "It's always great to score but there's always room for improvement. A really good night tonight and we've started the season well, but we know we can improve in certain areas." (Photo: Getty Images) The late Casemiro goals didn't yield anything further for Man United tonight, but it will put a positive spin on the game in terms of the post-match debrief and identifying the upsides from the match, as well as ensuring they go into their next game without their confidence completely torn apart. Ultimately, Bayern have so much ridiculous young talent and that told tonight. Probably a fair result in the end. Bayern's quality shone through and they were clinical when they got forward. United will take some positives from the game and they fought until the end but there is still so much to work on for Ten Hag — they are conceding far too many goals. Martial came on and proved a point at the end, giving his manager a decision to make for the weekend's game against Burnley. FT Bayern Munich 4-3 Manchester United A mad game of Champions League football is brought to an end and Bayern hang on for three points. United just left themselves far too much to do on three separate occasions and the German champions were ultimately deserving winners.