Jorge Preciado's booming voice guides fans inside the King/Drew Magnet High School basketball gym in South Central Los Angeles. The squeaking shoes and basketball bouncing paired with the announcer's voice seamlessly matches the play on the court – a mix of professional and playground style of basketball and one that includes a wide range of talent. "The Drew League in the summer is unbelievable because what you got is the NBA veterans and rookies and stuff all playing together against the high school phenom, the neighborhood phenom," former Drew League commissioner Dino Smiley said. "They all on the court together." This isn’t your typical basketball viewing experience either. Fans interact with refs midgame. A corner of the gym is reserved for legends of the league. Everybody knows everybody. There’s a reason this summer marks 50 seasons for the Drew League. SPORTS NEWSLETTER:Sign up to get the latest news and features sent directly to your inbox FEELING THE HEAT:Damian Lillard wants to play for Miami, but which teams have a chance to get him in trade? What began as neighborhood games in Compton, Calif., has evolved into an iconic league broadcasted across the country by the NBA. It’s known simply to locals as "The Drew," priding itself on being the place where the best players come to show their skills. "There's just something about Drew that makes it special," Smiley said. Kobe Bryant played there. So has LeBron James. After Chris Paul was traded to the Houston Rockets to team up with James Harden, the first game they played together was at the Drew League. Here’s everything you need to know about the Drew League, from how to watch games to its history. Founded in 1973, the Drew League is the one of the most famous professional-amateur basketball leagues in the country. Games are held at King/Drew Magnet High School in South Central Los Angeles with four 8-minute quarters and a 24-second shot clock. There are 22 teams split between two divisions. Each summer season typically runs from early June to late August when a champion is crowned. Games are played on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. The Drew League has a women's league that was founded in 1988, and the Drew League Foundation, which was created in 2009. It initially served as an outreach for individuals in the Florence-Firestone community in Compton, Calif., who needed simple things such as meals and supplies. Since then, the foundation has given out 150 scholarships to local kids, staged turkey giveaways, a Christmas toy drive and more. They've also held a gala for the past 10 years and have a partnership with the Los Angeles Clippers, which helps with basketball camps that the foundation sponsors. "We've been going strong ever since 2009," Drew League CFO Michael McCaa said. "Our specific catchment area is the Los Angeles, Florence-Firestone community, the Watts community (and) the Compton community." It is free to attend the Drew League – no tickets are required. If you are unable to watch games in person, the NBA app broadcasts games every weekend. There’s a long list of players who have suited up in a Drew League game including Kobe Bryant, LeBron James, Kevin Durant, DeMar DeRozan, James Harden, Chris Paul, Paul Pierce and Baron Davis, among many others. Born and raised in Compton, Calif., DeRozan’s been around the Drew League since he was 14 years old, playing in games and assisting with the Drew League Foundation.    "But we wouldn't let him play in the summer league with us. We said, no, he's too young. He's too young," Smiley said. "And then when he finally hit like 16, we said OK. And he played so well." As current commissioner and daughter of Smiley, Chaniel Smiley said: "If you can hoop, you can test your game out (here)." And that doesn’t apply to just NBA players. Celebrities such as rapper The Game and former Heisman Trophy winning quarterback Matt Leinart have played in the Drew League. The Game even had his own Drew League team. Late rapper Nipsey Hussle also wanted to put his own team in the Drew League, according to Dino Smiley, but he was killed the following year. It’s hanging on the top of the walkway at King/Drew Magnet High School in bold, white letters: "No Excuse, Just Produce." The motto, coined by Dino Smiley in 1984, was a response to complaints by players. Players complained that the refs were cheating, or the floors were too slippery or that it’s too hot in the gym, which irritated Smiley. "I got mad with the players for crying all the time. I said, y'all need to stop this," Smiley said. "All these excuses man. Ain’t no excuses. Just produce man and get it over with." The blacktop of Charles Drew Middle School in Compton was filled with local basketball talent back in the early 1970s. Alvin Wills evolved the homeroom basketball program at the middle school into pick-up games at night. Teams were separated by shirts and skins. Seeing the popularity of the games, Wills came up with an idea. "Alvin said, 'You know what? I think I'm gonna start a league,'" Smiley said. "There's enough guys up here to make this work and we kind of put our heads together." The first season of the Drew League was held in 1973. There were six teams – The Gassers, The Neighborhood, Harney’s Hornets, Running Rebels, The Dreamers and Chic-Unique – with games played Wednesday and Friday nights. Harney’s Hornets won the first Drew League championship. In the early days, Smiley, who served as commissioner of the league from 1984-2017, would climb up a 10-foot ladder and keep score on a chalkboard as a 13-year-old. Wherever Wills would go, Smiley was right behind him. Keith Anderson, who participated in the inaugural season and played at Cal State Fullerton, said the Drew League served as a place for local basketball players that hadn’t continued their careers after high school, but who were still interested in playing. Word began to spread about this local league held in a small middle school with fans packed in the gym like sardines. Crowds started to form through word of mouth, no social media to highlight the neighborhood games. Anderson recalled how a build up of participation from NBA players slowly made the league bigger. But the community aspect had an even bigger part. "It was just something to keep everybody out of trouble, to have a little bit of entertainment and just to have fun," Chaniel Smiley said. "Just hooping, that's what everybody loves to do because there's really not much that goes on in this community." That community impact was felt during the L.A. riots in 1992. With everything shut down, Dino Smiley reached out to then LAPD chief deputy Lee Baca about letting the Drew League continue. Smiley thought they could bring the neighborhood together and once you’re in the gym, you’re safe. Baca agreed, telling Smiley: "Whenever Drew is playing, crime goes down, so we need to play." It’s exactly what they did then and continue to do now. The league grew organically before a boom during the summer of 2011. With the NBA in a lockout, players searched for the best runs across the country. Naturally, the Drew League fell in that category. Anderson said that the lockout created a more competitive atmosphere. Appearances from top NBA players meant the league had to move from Washington Park to their location now, King/Drew Magnet High School. The gym fills up each weekend with fans from everywhere coming for the same reason that started everything in 1973 – watching good basketball. Fifty years of the Drew League never seemed realistic for Dino and Chaniel Smiley. Chaniel acknowledged that she never thought people would come from far and beyond to embrace what the Drew League is about. But with backing from the city and support from the NBA, anything is possible. "Our community embraces us so much and supports what we are doing. So we have a lot of support from that," Chaniel Smiley said. "And now, from the district, from mayor's office, from councilmen. So they love what we're doing, so we plan to be here for another 50 years."