Newcastle, Chelsea, Aston Villa, Brighton, Fulham and Brentford will all be involved in the finale of the Premier League Summer Series The Premier League Summer Series comes to an end this weekend and you can now catch all the action thanks to a cut price Sky Sports deal.  On Friday, July 28 at 7.30pm Brighton & Hove Albion and Newcastle meet while Sunday, July 30 will see Aston Villa take on Brentford at 12:00pm while at 2:45pm Chelsea will face Fulham. The series has hosted some intense battles so far with the Chelsea, Newcastle, Brighton and Aston Villa going head to head in Florida, Georgia and Philadelphia as they all look to get into prime condition int the USA. So far we have seen some cracking games play out in the Summer Series with Newcastle and Chelsea drawing 1-1, Newcastle and Aston Villa engaging in a thrilling 3-3 draw while Chelsea beat Brighton 4-3 on the same day Fulham eclipsed Brentford 3-2. The series will come to an end on Sunday which will then just leave less than two weeks until the big kick-off. The Premier League kick-off is on August 12. You can sign up for 18 months now for a cut price deal which will mean you'll see all the Premier League action throughout the 2023/2024 season as it unfolds. This weekend will give fans a chance to see how their clubs are shaping up ahead of the new Premier League season as well as a glimpse at several new signings in action. Chelsea supporters can get a look at Christopher Nkunku and Nicolas Jackson while Newcastle fans can watch Sandro Tonali line up for the Magpies. Youri Tielemans will be a player Villa fans will want to keep a keen eye on while Joao Pedro and James Milner are just some of the names Brighton have brought in. Fulham have not long ago signed Raul Jimenez while Brentford's summer spree has seen thm sign Freinburg duo Mark Flekken and Kevin Schade, as well as Nathan Collins from Wolves. The series will give the opportunity to see new signings on display as well as a pre-Premier League fix before the 2023/2024 campaign gets underway, Sky are currently offering the Sky Sports package for £20 a month for 18 months or it is £27 a month on a 31 day rolling contract. You can find out more and sign up here.