Gisele Bündchen is taking a breather following her divorce from Tom Brady. The supermodel has been sharing happy glimpses into her life with her kids since her split from their father, including sweet photos from their relaxing getaway in Brazil. In their divorce proceedings, Brady and Bündchen, who were married for 13 years, agreed to share joint custody of son Benjamin, 13, and daughter Vivian, 10. Over the weekend, Bündchen posted an Instagram carousel featuring sun-kissed selfies in front of the ocean, joyful moments with her two children, yummy snacks, sunset walks, moments of meditation, and lots of love. "Recharging with my little ones in the country of my ❤️!" she wrote in the caption.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Gisele Bündchen (@gisele) The first photo shows Bündchen basking in the sun in a cheetah-print bikini while walking on the beach during sunset. The model is makeup free and glowing in the candid selfie, looking blissful while in her home country. Another shot shows Bündchen cuddling her daughter on a chair, and another shows Bündchen wearing a comfy grey yoga set and meditating on an outdoor couch in front of the ocean. Brady and Bündchen have kept their lives following their divorce mostly private, though the NFL star did say in an episode of his SiriusXM show, Let's Go!, last month, that their split was "very amicable." He also revealed his current priorities. "I'm really focused on two things: taking care of my family and certainly my children, and secondly, doing the best job I can to win football games," the Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback said. You Might Also Like 15 Can't-Miss Fashion Gift Ideas from Oprah's Favorite Things 2022 4 Investment-Worthy Skincare Finds From Sephora The 17 Best Retinol Creams Worth Adding to Your Skin Care Routine New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?