Affiliate links on Android Authority may earn us a commission. Learn more. Published onJanuary 21, 2024 The Google Play Store gets frequent updates, which is excellent news. The not-so-great news is that it can take weeks, or sometimes even longer, to get the latest iteration. The basic functionality never changes, so being stuck on an older version isn’t all that bad. However, we understand the urge to get the latest version on your device. Are you looking to update the Google Play Store on your device? Here’s how. Please note that this is just for downloading and installing the Google Play Store on Google Android devices. For non-Google Android devices, such as the Amazon Fire Tablet, you’ll need to install Google Account Manager, Google Services Framework, Google Play Services, and the Play Store, in that order. We have a dedicated guide for installing the Google Play Store on Amazon Fire tablets, if you need some help with that. QUICK ANSWER The simplest way to update the Google Play Store is to launch the Google Play Store, tap on your profile icon, and select Settings. Expand the About section and tap on Update Play Store. To install the Play Store manually, download the Google Play Store by going to a reputable site like APKMirror and get the APK there. Then, install the Play Store either using a file browser or APKMirror's proprietary installer app (available in the Play Store). JUMP TO KEY SECTIONS  Here’s how to update the Google Play Store to get the latest version if it’s already installed on your device: Editor’s note: These steps were formulated using a Google Pixel 7 running Android 14. Menus and steps may change depending on your specific device and software version. This is the easiest and most efficient way to get the latest Google Play Store version. Generally speaking, it should be up to date all the time since it does update in the background. However, this is the easiest method to make sure. This method only works on devices running Android 8.0 Oreo or later. Please note that you’ll also need Google Play Services installed for the Play Store to function properly. That should be the whole process. There are a lot of versions of the Google Play Store, and some are even for other devices like Android TV or Wear OS. If the installation doesn’t work, double-check that you have the correct APK version and that you have the version that supports your device.  Much like the previous section, if the installation fails, it’s most likely due to an incompatible APK. Double-check your version and try downloading a different APK file. You’ll most likely want to go into your phone settings and wipe the Google Play Store cache and data. Sometimes, updates can cause finicky stuff with old cached files. You can follow our Google Play Store troubleshooting guide to figure things out. No. While it is frustrating and time-consuming, the easiest way to restore things is to factory reset and then try again from the beginning. We have a dedicated guide for factory resetting your Android phone here. The Google Play Store is only half of the equation. You also need to obtain Google Play Services for your device. Almost every Play Store app, including the Google Play Store, uses Google Play Services. Without one, you cannot have the other. Unfortunately, getting everything up and running is an exceptionally difficult process. We have a dedicated guide for this.