We offer you the download of Google Play free for PC. You can access the Google app store and install APKs as if you were on your smartphone or tablet Google Play Download Free for PC Android devices come along with an app store to download contents, the Google Play Store. The app that grants us with access to the store is installed by default on many devices and it's the easiest way to download and install apps on our handset. It works with a Google account, which is compulsory on this operating system, and that's where we can find both free and paid apps. If you want to access the Google marketplace from your PC's desktop, there's an easy way to do so. Thus, you can download and use apps from this store and even run them or create your own backup. The fastest way to access the store from Windows is by using an emulator of the likes of BlueStacks. It's one of the most stable and user-friendly options. Once it's ready, you'll be on the main screen of the emulator, very similar to the home screen of any phone or tablet. If you take a look at the upper part of the interface, you'll see several sections. You should be interested in visiting My Applications, the option on the utmost left side of the upper menu. Once you access this option, you'll see several icons, some of which correspond to apps installed by default and one in particular called System applications that includes different basic tools. Once there, you'll see several apps, including Google Play: the emulator includes a shortcut to the Android app store so that you only have to click on it to start downloading apps. The truth is that the search engine available from upper right-hand side of the interface is the actual Play Store search tool. Therefore, if you want to download a specific app, just search for it. There's no need to go to Google Play each time you want to download a new app. As a technology journalist with over 12 years of experience in the world of software and apps, I have had the opportunity to try all kinds of devices and operating systems over the years. I have done from software or mobile applications reviews...
         Antony Peel Features August 17, 2024 913 KB Windows Google We'd love to hear from you. Do you want to give us your opinion? 
Logged off
  Share on social networks Similar Software