She continued: "Sorry, Jeremy," referencing the former BBC Top Gear and ITV Who Wants to be a Millionaire star. Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Don't miss any TV and showbiz news - sign up to free alerts We have more newsletters Jeremy Clarkson has received a public apology from his girlfriend Lisa after she pinched the final edible raspberries from their farm. Lisa showed fans a bush of raspberries but admitted that most of them remain inedible. "We haven't had enough sun to ripen them," Lisa said. "That one's perfect," she then said.  She picked three and said. "Oh, look at that, that's mine. That's disappearing immediately." She continued: "Sorry, Jeremy," referencing the former BBC Top Gear and ITV Who Wants to be a Millionaire star. "It was going to be for you, oops." A fan replied: "We’ve had plentiful this year . Just pick red currants and 10 jars jelly made today." "Any issues with the birds?" asked another. "Same here in Ireland - Notting ripping," another typed. "The blackberries in Kent are insane this year! Jam batch one done today," another said. BREAKING Corrie and Doctors star dies aged 75 with viewers left devastated "Eat them all before he gets any! Hee hee," a fan typed. Another wrote: "Lisa your a legend!" Cotswolds Retreats said: "We love raspberries." Georgia said: "Making my mouth water!" "Yummy," Nikki Sawyer said. "Diddly Berries," another typed. "For me it's the best time at summer : eat ripe raspberries ,wherever I can find them," said another. It comes as Diddly Squat is selling wildflowers. "Wild flower seeds from the farm will be harvested soon and available to buy at Diddly Squat Farm Shop!," the farm wrote on Instagram. Siri replied: "That's a fantastic idea ,who wouldn't want to have such beautiful wildflowers in their garden and at the same time do something good for insects and bees ?" Homespun said: "If you plant it they will come. They also make a great cover crop." Isobel asked: "Do u do an online delivery service? @diddlysquat.farmshop" Lisa and Jeremy have been dating since 2017. "Nobody would ever call Lisa down to earth but if you had seen her yesterday," he said previously. "It was absolutely sluicing it down, and blowing such a gale and my tractor, which is not small, was being buffeted by the winds. The two of us were out, making this fence on the highest part of the bleakest, most wind-set part of the farm." 