JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage of this site, then refresh the page. NRS Healthcare data breach If you have a council tax account with the City of London you can register to view your account details online. If you wish to make a payment please see below as you are unable to pay via this facility. If your council tax account has already been closed, for security reasons, you will not be able to register that account for the self service facility. Note: you do not need to be a registered user to search for your council tax band. We kindly request that all payments are made by direct debit, using our online or telephone payment service, or by telephone or internet banking directly with your bank. This is the easiest way of paying your council tax. You only have to sign a direct debit instruction once and amounts will be collected automatically as they become due. Please download and complete the below PDF and email the Council Tax team and attach the signed document. Or you can post it to the address detailed on the form. Direct debit guarantee The direct debit scheme comes with a guarantee that is offered by all banks and building societies taking part in the scheme. Find out more about the direct debit scheme and direct debit guarantee. Payment can be made using our online payment service (we do not accept American Express, Diners or Electron). Payment can be made using our telephone payment line, 0300 0132 418 (we do not accept American Express, Diners or Electron). If you have made telephone banking or internet banking arrangements with your bank, you can use the bank details shown on your council tax bill to make a payment. You can also use these details to set up monthly payments. Please ensure you only quote your eight-digit council tax account number, which is located on the top right section of your bill. No further information is needed other than your eight-digit council tax account number. If you provide further information as the reference, then this may delay the payment reaching your council tax account. Depending on how you pay, it can take up to five working days for your payment to reach your account. Please allow sufficient time to ensure payments arrive on or before the due date stated on your bill. For further information please email the Council Tax Team​. If you are experiencing difficulties in making a payment, email the Council Tax Team. Further information about claiming benefits and council tax reduction scheme discount are available from the City's benefits service.