

@kyleighmarie745/TikTok


sdx15/ShutterStock

(Licensed)
 Tiffanie Drayton Trending 
Posted on Aug 7, 2023
 “Weaponized incompetence” is a new term to describe men’s bad behavior that has gained popularity online and there seems to be no shortage of examples. In a viral video that has amassed over 224,000 views, TikTok user Kyleighmarie745 (@kyleighmarie745) showed viewers how her male Instacart shopper and fiancé couldn’t find a grocery item that was hard to miss.  “Imagine sending your fiancé to get something from the store after the Instacart shopper (male) couldn’t find it,” text overlaid on the clip read. “And your fiancé tells me they don’t have it.” In the clip’s next shot, a very clear shot of almond flour sits on the shelf, which is stocked with multiple packs of the same item. Taylor Swift’s song “The Man” plays in the background while the video rolls.  In the comments section, other users shared their epic tales of what they believe to be men weaponizing their incompetence. “Sent my husband to dollar general for makeup wipes once and he came home with a giant bottle of pure acetone,” user Katie wrote.  “Husband ‘lost’ his tooth paste – it was inside his drawer just upside down,” another said.  “We had a male shopper say they were out of tampons,” OrigamiCorgi commented. “We went to the same store right after. They weren’t.” Others said they have stopped using Instacart shoppers because they are too often assigned incompetent male shoppers. “I had male instacart shoppers so often I stopped it altogether,” one user shared. “Same I can’t do it anymore,” Kyleighmarie responded. These days, viral posts calling out male “weaponized incompetence” abound. The term first cropped up earlier this year in a Huffington Post piece in January that reported on the term, noting the significant gender imbalance in workplace responsibilities and in the division of labor at home.  Since then, the Daily Dot has published numerous stories about TikTok that have gone viral after women point out how men weaponize incompetence against them. One TikToker amassed over a million views after saying men in the workplace only acknowledge a good idea if it comes out of their own mouth. The Daily Dot reached out to Kyleighmarie745 via TikTok comment and Instacart by email. ‘I threw away a rug I loved. I wish I’d seen this a few months ago’: Expert shares how to get rid of dog stains with baking soda and vinegar ‘Can’t decide if I love the page or hate this page’: Family of 6 eats unlimited pancakes at IHOP for only $30—and they take breakfast to-go for the next morning ‘I feel like ppl should get a discount on a new car for being this loyal’: Man’s Corolla hits 400K miles. Here’s how Toyota rewards him ‘You should be ashamed of yourselves’: Customer calls YETI cooler a ‘rip-off’ after ice melted in 1 day Share this article TAGS  Tiffanie Drayton is a geek culture and lifestyle reporter whose work covers everything from gender and race to anime and Xbox. Her work has appeared in Complex, Salon, Marie Claire, Playboy, and elsewhere.