A woman has shared her thrifty tips and tricks which have seen her halve her energy bill, including charging her phone on a solar panel and cooking on a camper stove. Having seen prices saw during the cost of living crisis, Kerry Collinson, 51, from Crewkerne in Somerset decided to try to ruthlessly reduce her gas and electricity bills. Since making a conscious effort to switch up her habits, Collinson has slashed two-thirds off of her gas bill, and halved her electricity bill - meaning she now only pays £10 a month after the £60 government grant. The commercial cleaner has not turned on her central heating since February, and says she only spends £1.20 a week cooking, after swapping her induction hob for a camping stove. Despite the cut backs, Collinson says her "quality of life is just as good", but she's "saving a fortune". Read more: Frugal mum shares savvy tips for slashing bills during cost of living crisis "I don't want to cut back on the nice things I've worked hard for my whole life so greedy energy firms can put it in their pockets," she explains of her lifestyle changes. "I'm very happy, I've still got what I need and I haven't had to give up the things I love to do like going out for dinner or Netflix." Collinson says that her simple yet clever tips and tricks have seen her halve her energy bill, even before the price rise. "We never put the central heating on, we got a log burner instead, and we use electric blankets when we're cold," she says of her switch ups. "We never turn on the oven, and we stopped using the induction hob because I could see the smart metre literally spin every time I used it." Instead she uses two camping stoves, an air fryer or a microwave to cook her meals. "It costs me £1.20 for the whole week whereas before it would cost 70p per meal," she explains. Solar lights are also something Collinson has used to effectively cut costs. Read more: Ninja's hugely popular air fryers back in stock after selling out multiple times She never turns her lights on in the evening, and instead relies on solar lights that charge through the day, her log burner, and some chargeable tea lights from Amazon. She has also stopped used the tumble drier, which she says is an "inconvenience" but not essential. Another tip she swears by is using a window vacuum cleaner to help remove moisture and ensure the house doesn't get damp. But her most important money-saving tip is to be aware of turning things off when they're not needed. Read more: Woman shares how to make five-course Christmas dinner for 10 people for under £50 Instead of charging her phone and electrics from the mains, she has a transportable solar panel that can charge essentials during the day. "We started buying solar stuff in the summer because we had a feeling that we should be prepared," Collinson explains. "So we bought lights, lanterns and a fold up solar panel that charges our devices for free." At it's highest, the family's monthly energy bill for their three-bedroom bungalow was £230, whereas she says it's now only £95. Despite no longer using her oven for cooking, she is planning to use it on Christmas day to cook her turkey, potatoes, and other meat cuts for the festive season. Everything else will be cooked on the camping stoves and in her airfryer. "It's mostly about being more aware, turning things off when you're not in the room and being more frugal," Collinson says of her new energy-saving regime. "In the past I'd pay my bills and just think it's a thing I have to do as an adult, but now it just rubs me the wrong way. "Why should so many people have to cut back on other things to put money into the pocket of someone who doesn't deserve it. "I'm not a political person, but I don't want to give my money to people like that - I'd rather spend it on other things I love." Read more: 30 ways to save cash: Brits battle cost of living crisis with these top hacks Collinson isn't the only one opting to share their cost-cutting tricks to save money during the cost of living crisis. Earlier this year a mum revealed how she saved thousands of pounds by shopping for yellow sticker produce, putting away enough to take her family away on their first holiday in years. Michelle Newton, 49, from Runcorn, Cheshire, has always looked for ways to reduce spending on her food shopping, regularly scouring the shelves for yellow sticker bargains. But, after noticing the cost of food rising, she now shops almost exclusively in the ‘reduced to clear’ section, which has enabled her to save thousands of pounds as a result. Additional reporting SWNS.  Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. "We still have hope and will never give up" King Charles's cancer diagnosis was announced six months ago, but the type of cancer he is fighting has never been disclosed for a very specific reason, it has been claimed Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." The singer-dancer wore her most naked look for a daring cover with Perfect Magazine featuring a make-shift bikini bottoms and no top... Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 A driver captured the moment a £175k Bentley was driven down a motorway - while missing a tyre. Joseph Grieve, 27, was heading along the M25 near London en route to Nürburgring, Nürburg, Germany, with his mate when he spotted the luxury motor chugging along. At around 6am, Joseph noticed sparks flying on the road when the Bentley Flying Spur roared pass him - with only three tyres. Joseph, a carer, from Carlisle, Cumbria, said: "My mate got his first passport and wanted to go to the Nürburgring. "We were on the way and I noticed those bloody sparks coming off the car. "I saw them and I was like 'what the hell?' "I never thought I'd see such an expensive Bentley missing a tyre." The video was filmed on July 30, 2024. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. With millions set to lose out on the winter fuel payments this year, the expert revealed another way to boost your income.