Nationwide Outrage Over Kolkata Rape and Murder Case: Teenagers Against Politicisation Of Protest Aamir Khan Gets Emotional on Rhea Chakraborty’s Show, Praises Her Courage Torn Pages Of Doctor's Diary, Notepad 'Hold Key' | CBI Grills Ex-Principal Kolkata Rape-Murder: 'White Liquid...Several People Involved In Sex Assault' | Autopsy Report Russia 'Wipes Out' 3,400+ Ukrainian Soldiers In Kursk; Zelensky Announces Final Goal | Watch Rakhi Highlights: Genelia, Tamannaah Bhatia & Other Celebs Share Touching and Fun Moments from Their Celebrations Arshad Warsi’s Social Media Flooded with Hate Over Prabhas Comment Swifties Turn On Taylor Swift? Donald Trump Sparks Outrage With AI-Generated Swift Endorsement Anubhav Sinha's Sweet Gesture Towards Dia Mirza Leaves Netizens In Awe | Fans Declare Him a 'True Gentleman' Netanyahu Loses Cool At Israeli Negotiators After Fight Over IDF Withdrawal Gets Leaked | Watch Shocking! Lawyer rams Mercedes car into Kachori shop in Delhi, Six injured In a shocking incident, six people were injured after a lawyer rammed his speeding Mercedes car into a Kachori shop in the national capital. The incident took place at Fateh Kachori in Civil Lines area. The police have taken the lawyer into custody and seized his car. The lawyer has been identified as Parag Maini who is a resident of Noida’s Sector 79.  The police have registered a case against the lawyer under Section 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by endangering life). Telangana cop punched, dragged by villagers, video goes viral On Cam: Crane drags car with senior citizens sitting inside, case registered | video goes viral Instagram influencer shot dead by husband in Rajasthan's Phalodi CCTV: Thieves arrive in car, decamp with jewellery in MP's Damoh Goons hurl abuses at toll plaza employee in MP's Chhatarpur Two goons hurled abuses at a toll plaza employee in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur. One of the assailants is reportedly the brother of an MLA. The incident was filmed by an employee of ol plaza which has gone viral on social media. The goons were upset after they had to wait in the queue.  Viral: Cobra blocks road in MP's Chhatarpur district Nigeria: Lion kills zookeeper at Obafemi Awolowo University CCTV: Biker crushed to death by speeding bus in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain district Four women steal tray full of earrings from a jewellery shop in MP's Raisen Shirtless British man punches air steward after destroying aircraft toilet, arrested A shirtless British man punched an air steward after destroying the aircraft toilet. The man was arrested. The man went berserk soon after the flight took off . He went up to smash the plane’s toilet.  The incident took place on February 7 when the flight took off from Bangkok to London. A video of the incident went viral on social media.  On cam: Several injured after swarm of bees attacks guests during wedding ceremony in MP's Guna On cam: Man hurls abuses at government school teacher in MP's Chhatarpur district On cam: Man thrashes youth with stick in MP's Ujjain Doctor loses cool, misbehaves with home guard in MP's Chhatarpur On cam: Goons thrash Dalit youth in MP's Betul A Dalit youth was thrashed in Madhya Pradesh’s Betul. The man was brutally thrashed and forced to squat while holding his ears. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media. Congress leader Jitu Patwari highlighted the plight of the Dalit man. The police have launched a probe into the matter. On cam: Govt employee consumes alcohol at work place in MP's Singrauli On cam: Goons thrash liquor shop employee in MP's Gwalior CCTV: Man thrashed, abducted in Madhya Pradesh's Betul district Fight breaks out between CHC employee and patient in UP's Barabanki NIA carries out searches at multiple locations in Tiruchirappalli Centre holds all-party meeting ahead of Interim Budget Session Snow clearance operation underway by BRO’s 109 RCC Beacon Project on Karnah-Kupwara road Trying to minimize electric bills to Zero: PM Modi as introduces new rooftop solar power scheme Uttarakhand UCC: 'Muslims should unite and protest', says Muslim cleric Sajid Rashidi Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal: 'We did not give up, we snatched victory from BJP' Famous YouTuber Mr Beast's video earned 230,000 Euros from X Modi's goons 'ED, CBI and IT' were running extortion racket: Atishi India gets its longest cable-stayed bridge; PM Modi inaugurates Sudarshan Setu in Gujarat Bihar Political Turmoil: BJP leaders to attend a meeting to discuss LS polls, says Vinod Tawde UP: Devotees offer prayers at Sangam on occasion of Magh Purnima Armed men stormed a TV station in Ecuador “Shameful incident in Karnataka…” Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Hanuman Flag removal row PM Modi leaves members in splits as he roasts Congress, Rahul Gandhi in Parliament AAP chief Kejriwal announces launch of doorstep ration delivery in Punjab US states approve the use of Nitrogen gas for execution in the death penalty Germany: Country's richest own around a third of all private assets in Germany Former Mrs India 2022 Mehak Suri on ‘Swa:Raksha’ inauguration US Secretary of State Blinken to embark on Israel visit today, push for Gaza ceasefire Why TP-Link, one of the world’s biggest Wi-Fi router maker, is under scanner in the US Ahead of Rajnath Singh's visit, US says relation with India of 'great importance' Mexico waiting on US for flight details behind capture of drug kingpins Welcome Bangladesh's focus on minorities, in touch with India too: US US may be planning to ‘break-up’ Google, company to be forced to sell these businesses Indian-American Richard Verma named US special representative for Ukraine's economic recovery US said to consider a breakup of Google to address search monopoly