Thank you for sharing your concern here in the Community. Let me provide some details about this matter.   Since you've mentioned that you've created those invoices in Zapier, it could be best to reach out to Zapier customer support. That way, they can guide you further with the steps to send an invoice automatically after they have created it.   If you're using QuickBooks Online, the option to send invoices automatically after they've been created or imported is currently unavailable. You'll need to send them manually. Here's an article for further details: Create and send invoices in QuickBooks Online.   Furthermore, you may consider using the recurring transactions feature if you have customers you send an invoice to regularly. You can set invoices to generate automatically and email them to your customers.   Here's how:     For more details about this, see the articles below:    You can post a reply below if you need more details about managing your invoices in QuickBooks Online. I'll get back to you as soon as possible. Have a good one! Hi GebelAlainaM,    Thank you for your help. I'm not creating the invoices in zapier. I'm using Zapier to transfer information from Sharpspring to Quickbooks so that Quickbooks creates the invoice. Please can you help with this as I am encountering difficulty. Is there someone in quickbooks that deals with integrations who can help?   Thanks,  Sarah It's good to have you join this thread, @SarahBigPic.   Thanks for laying out the details of your concern and the additional screenshot. I'll point you in the right direction of support to help you with this integration concern.   Since you're using Zapier to transfer information from Sharpspring to QuickBooks Online, I suggest reaching out to Zapier customer support. They have equipped tools to guide you on the best process.   You can reach out to them by searching Zappier on the Apps menu of your QBO and getting their contact details from there.   If you have any other QBO-related questions, please let me know, and I'll be right here to help. Wishing you the best!  
 
 You have clicked a link to a site outside of the QuickBooks or ProFile Communities. By clicking "Continue", you will leave the community and be taken to that site instead. For more information visit our Security Center or to report suspicious websites you can contact us here 

