Think of your last credit card transaction. It may have been a cup of coffee or when you went out to dinner with friends. Today, Apple makes it easy for consumers to pay for products and services with Apple Pay. You may be wondering, can I get cashback with Apple Pay? The answer is yes. Here's what you need to know about earning cash back through Apple Pay purchases. Related: Can You Use Apple Pay on Amazon?  Yes, you can get cash back with Apple Pay, provided the business accepts Apple Pay, the store offers cash back, and you have a debit or credit card linked to your Apple Pay account. Apple Pay offers unlimited cash back, so as long as a business meets these requirements, you can earn between 2–3 percent cash back on your purchases. Here's a bit more detail about each of the requirements:  To make full use of Apple Pay and your device features, sign up for our free Tip of the Day Newsletter. Now, where do you go to use Apple Pay? Apple Pay is accepted at over a million retail stores, including Albertson's, Safeway, Trader Joe's, Best Buy, McDonald's, and Walgreens. Your best bet is to look for Apple Pay symbols (shown below) and verify with each business. You can learn more on Apple.com. When using the Apple Pay Card with Apple Pay, cardholders get two percent Daily Cash Back on their purchases. All cash back amounts are deposited in your Apple Wallet. However, if you're purchasing Apple products or products from partner stores, you can earn three percent cash back (instead of the usual two percent).  Some of Apple's partner stores include:  So if you're planning to purchase Apple services or products, I recommend using Apple Pay to earn the three percent cash back. This applies to any Apple.com purchase and includes services such as Apple Music and Apple TV+. If you want to earn rewards for other credit cards, you may be able to link them to your Apple Pay Card. Check with your financial institution to see if this is possible. You can get even more rewards and cash back on grocery shopping, gasoline, and restaurants. Apple Pay is a secure and contactless way to make your everyday purchases. Just remember to link a debit and credit card before you start using Apple Pay for cash back and look for the Apple Pay symbol when you shop at stores. Happy shopping!  Belinda is a passionate digital marketer and content writer who loves creating unforgettable experiences for audiences with compelling copywriting and other forms of media. She used to live in England, has traveled to over 15 countries, and loves swimming in the ocean. In her free time, she enjoys planning women's events and trying new restaurants in Chicago.  Did you get a new iPad? Protect your investment by putting it in the best case available! Zugu iPad cases offer the best fit and premium features that are custom-designed and meticulously tested. All of their cases have up to 10 adjustable angles that are insanely secure, a protective bumper, air vents, a soft microfiber interior, and an elastic Apple pencil pocket. If you love supporting small businesses and quality products — check out Zugu now, no matter what iPad you have. Even if you're already using iCloud, it might not be set up to do what you need it to do, and you might not realize it until it's too late. If your iPhone gets lost or stolen, your photos and videos are gone forever. That's why we're excited to announce our Free iCloud Class. We'll show you how to avoid losing your data even if your device is lost, stolen, or replaced with an upgrade. Sign up today to attend our free live online iCloud class on Wednesday, August 21 at 3 p.m. ET. At iPhone Life, we use our 35 years of experience as a tech publisher to help millions of people master their Apple devices. Our experts obsessively test each tip, guide, and video we release to ensure you get all the hidden steps you won’t find anywhere else. Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Change Ad Consent Privacy Policy Customer Service Affiliate Disclaimer