Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Amanda Breen
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Jessica Thomas
              


            Mar 27, 2023
          
 
          Share         Google's Bard and Microsoft's new Bing have battled it out with OpenAI's ChatGPT for the spotlight in recent months, but the original AI contender just got a powerful update. Until last week, ChatGPT pulled its information from training data ending around September 2021. But OpenAI's just-launched plugins allow the bot to access third-party knowledge sources and databases — including the web, TechCrunch reported. Related: ChatGPT: What Is It and How Does It Work? | Entrepreneur OpenAI will first prioritize a select number of developers and subscribers to its premium ChatGPT Plus plan before introducing larger-scale and API access, according to the company's site. Of course, giving a chatbot web access doesn't come without some risk: WebGPT, an experimental system created in 2021 by OpenAI, at times quoted unreliable sources and drew from sites it anticipated users would find credible — whether they actually were or not. Additionally, the update is another step in the direction toward a potential upending of traditional search engines like Google — which declared a "code red" upon ChatGPT's release, The New York Times reported. Related: How Can Marketers Use ChatGPT? Here Are the Top 11 Uses. Other companies like Expedia, Instacart, Kayak, Klarna, Spotify, Slack, OpenTable and Zapier have also rolled out plug-ins for ChatGPT; Zapier is a standout for its ability to complete a variety of productivity tasks via connections with apps like Google Sheets and Trello, per TechCrunch. Entrepreneur Staff Senior Features Writer 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          On her journey to disrupt the beauty industry with her brand OUI the People, here are three lessons founder Karen Young shares.
         
          AI's speed, accuracy and cost-effectiveness are fundamentally reshaping financial workflows, but how can you ensure that it adheres both to your business's ethical principles and to best data security and integrity standards?
         
          The Made By Google event usually occurs in October.
         
          The Elon Musk and Donald Trump livestream event on X Spaces Monday was delayed for over 40 minutes.
         
          The two talked on a livestream on X on Monday night.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
