DNSE Securities and ZaloPay signed a cooperation agreement Monday to launch the first securities investment service on e-wallets in Vietnam. The "Securities Account" feature added to the ZaloPay platform by DNSE Securities will allow stock investments by “newbies” starting with just one share. Investors can directly register and trade in securities via DNSE's Entrade X account on the ZaloPay e-wallet without having to switch platforms, the companies said. To open the "Securities Account", investors only need to perform three simple steps: open ZaloPay e-wallet or access ZaloPay in Zalo; click on the "Securities Account" icon on the main screen; confirm information and sign a contract to open account. The feature will allow investors to look up information on stock codes and start trading from just one share. After successful registration, investors will be randomly given one share from the VN30 basket (index of top 30 stocks traded on the Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange, or HoSE) as part of a promotion offer that will run from July 20 to August 31, 2023. The promotion will have a total prize value of VND1 billion ($42,300). The cooperation between ZaloPay and DNSE is expected to make securities investment simple and accessible. Even those who are just starting to learn about financial investment and securities have the opportunity to learn and experience this playground without the pressure of initial capital. The first "Securities Account" product on an e-wallet also marks a pioneering step taken by them towards developing diversified, intelligent and convenient financial and securities services and products for users. "Finance is a very necessary skill for every individual, but so far in Vietnam, financial management and investment is still a distant concept for a large part of the population. DNSE has always cherished a desire to change that, opening up investment in securities to a large number of people," Pham Thi Thanh Hoa, general director of DNSE Securities, said at the signing ceremony. "We believe that with DNSE's experience in the stock market and ZaloPay's quality user network as well as the technological advantages of both sides, the "Securities Account" product will help realize our common vision," she added. Le Lan Chi, general director of ZaloPay, said: "Security is a potential field that is attracting great attention from users, especially young customers. Recognizing this demand, ZaloPay wishes to become the leading e-wallet in popularizing securities investment." "The common goal of ZaloPay and DNSE is to bring advanced financial products and services to customers and support them in investing and managing their finances in a smart and efficient way starting with a small amount of capital," she added. DNSE Securities, established in 2007, has achieved rapid growth in recent years with many pioneering products in the field of digital securities including: the e-KYC account opening service that digitizes 100% of the operation; the AI Broker virtual broker; the 24/7 deposit and withdrawal facility: and the pioneering system of administration and lending according to each transaction (Margin Deal). ZaloPay is currently the leading electronic wallet and online payment system in Vietnam with the advantage of integrating with the Zalo messaging application. ZaloPay recorded more than 11.5 million regular payment users in 2022. It has a wide network with tens of thousands of partners and payment points across the country and has enjoyed the fastest user growth among e-wallets over the last three years. 
Companies
 
Finance
 
Finance
 
Finance
 Fulbright University Vietnam has received a $1.5 million grant from Google to advance artificial intelligence (AI) research and education in the Southeast Asian country. 
Economy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 7:47 pm  GMT+7
                                 Vietnam is set to surpass Taiwan to become the fifth-biggest coal importer in the world, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its July 2024 edition of the Coal Mid-Year Update report. 
Energy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:45 pm  GMT+7
                                 A 30kg lot of arabica coffee from Pun Coffee Ltd. won the highest bid of VND1.2 million ($48) per kg at an auction in Hanoi last Saturday. 
Economy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:19 pm  GMT+7
                                 State-controlled Vietcombank has withdrawn a long-awaited plan to issue shares in a private placement ahead of today's extraordinary shareholders’ meeting. 
Finance - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:12 pm  GMT+7
                                 Shelf Drilling, a UAE-headquartered leading contractor of jack-up rigs, says it has commenced work on a new contract with Petrovietnam Exploration Production Corporation Petroleum Operating Company (PVEP POC). 
Companies - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:01 pm  GMT+7
                                 With presence established in 88 countries and notable achievements in ASEAN, BYD sees a "golden opportunity" to develop in the Vietnamese market, says Vo Minh Luc, CEO of BYD Vietnam. 
Executive Talk - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 3:56 pm  GMT+7
                                 Vo Tan Duc, deputy Party chief of Dong Nai - a manufacturing hub in southern Vietnam, was elected Chairman of the province on Monday for the 2021-2026 term. 
Politics - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 2:37 pm  GMT+7
                                 Tra Vinh is looking for 5-star hotel investments in the southern Vietnam province to attract greater numbers of international tourists, said Duong Hoang Sum, director of its Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 
Real Estate - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 2:16 pm  GMT+7
                                 U.S. dollar prices in Vietnam, on both official and free markets, have been on the decline over the past month as greenback supplies rise and the Fed is expected to cut rates soon. 
Banking - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 12:05 pm  GMT+7
                                 Japan-based brewing and distilling firm Suntory, a partner in Vietnam-based Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Beverage Co. Ltd., aims to open a new factory in Vietnam in October 2025. 
Industries - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:46 am  GMT+7
                                 Vietnam welcomes businesses of China’s Guangdong province to expand high-quality investment in infrastructure, Party General Secretary and State President To Lam has stated, as the two countries seek to enhance transport links for more robust trade and tourism exchanges. 
Industries - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 9:37 am  GMT+7
                                 Japan will coordinate with Southeast Asian countries and Australia on policies that reduce carbon emissions in a region that is particularly reliant on fossil fuels, according to Nikkei Asia. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 8:33 am  GMT+7
                                 President of the Philippines Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. is optimistic that the Philippines’ “A-” investment grade rating by Japan-based Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) would drive more investments into the country, reported the Philippine News Agency (PNA). 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 8:30 am  GMT+7
                                 The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) has cooperated with banks to seek solutions on quantum security in finance sector. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 8:29 am  GMT+7
                                 The Thai Industries Sentiment Index (TISI) increased for the first time in four months to 89.3 points in July, driven by higher demand for food, medicine and cosmetic products, said the Federation of Thai Industries (FTI). 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 8:28 am  GMT+7
                                 The Department of Business Development (DBD) in Thailand is stepping up efforts to enforce laws governing foreign businesses, ensuring fair competition for Thai entrepreneurs. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 8:27 am  GMT+7
                                 0912312954 
                    Licence No.494/GP-BTTTT, dated August 3, 2021.
                 
                    Parent entity:
                    Vietnam’s Association of Foreign Invested Enterprises
                        (VAFIE)
 
                    Editor in Chief:
                    Pham Duc Son
 
                    Standing Deputy Editor in Chief:
                    Nguyen Phong Cam
 
                    Deputy Editor in Chief:
                    Vo Ta Quynh
 
                    Editorial Board Member:
                    Nguyen Thai Son
 
                    Managing Editor:
                    Nguyen Hong Hanh
 
Email: - [email protected]
 
- [email protected]
 
                    Head of HCMC Office:
                    Nguyen Thai Son
 
                        Headquarters: Floor 7, 65 Van Mieu Street, Dong Da
                        District, Hanoi
                     
                        HCMC Office: Floor 6, 289 Dien Bien Phu Street, District
                        3, HCMC
                     
                        Copyright©2021 Theinvestor.vn. All rights reserved.
                     No reproduction without permission 
                Headquarters: Floor 7, 65 Van Mieu Street, Dong Da District,
                Hanoi
             
                HCMC Office: Floor 6, 289 Dien Bien Phu Street, District 3, HCMC
             
                Copyright©2021 Theinvestor.vn. All rights reserved.
             No reproduction without permission CMS by Explus