
  A man was left outraged after an 'entitled' yet 'crazy' mother stole his plane seat before making wild accusations against him.
 
  The 23-year-old splashed out on a business-class seat because he only makes the trip home to visit his parents once a year,
 
  But when he arrived at his row after boarding the plane, he spotted a woman sitting in his aisle seat next to her two children.
 
  Taking to Reddit, he said: "When I get to my seat, I see a mother and two kids. I tell the mother that's my seat she is visibly annoyed at that statement and snaps back 'No it's not'."
 
    I’m a professional woman in my mid 30s and I just got laughed at by a woman in first class on a plane for wearing a mask. I’ve worn a mask intermittently since I was 12, depending on the weather and my health status. This was a first for me. 👀🦭🤯 pic.twitter.com/HkP4sWBGbX
 
  Not wanting to make a scene, the man asks a flight attendant to resolve the situation so he could sit down and claim his rightful seat. "[I] show her my boarding pass so the flight attendant asks her to move from my seat politely," he added. "Being asked to move set off the woman. In a raised voice - but not shouting - she says this is my seat, 'I paid for it so f*** off'.
 
  "The flight attendant still being polite asks to see the boarding passes to check the seats. The entitled mother pulls two out for the seats next to mine. The flight attendant slightly less kind says 'Ma'am these are only two boarding passes where is the third one'. The mother thinking she's smart says, 'I must have dropped the third one so I can't give it to you'."
 
  Still trying to defuse the situation, the flight attendant politely explains how she'll have to move from the seat because he is clearly assigned to it on the ticket. According to the Mirror, he said: "[She was] arguing for a few more minutes before stopping grinning and she said well if you want me to move so bad how about you pay to upgrade me and my children to first class.
 
    Being on one of these flights must be the craziest experience. Whole first class plane with all your boys… must be unreal vibes man. https://t.co/wesM26mbIj
 
  "I responded by saying, miss I only have a business class seat because I do a trip like this once a year so I tend to be comfortable during my flight and I don't have the funds for three first class tickets. The flight attendant then says to the woman either you or one of your children will have to move or else we will have to remove you from the flight.
 
  "Then without holding back she screeches, 'If I leave he's going to touch my babies'. Me and the flight attendant are physically taken aback after hearing this. After that I stopped trying to be nice and responded, 'Get out of my seat and never make those claims again, you self-centred b****'."
 
  With that, the flight attendant called over security and had the woman and her two children removed from the plane completely, leaving the man with the entire row to himself.
 
  One user in the comments was stunned at the ordeal, they said: "Jeez I’m so sorry about that. Honestly, you were way nicer than I would have been. Sucks her kids saw that but mum is a crazy woman."
 
  Another user commented: "Love it! I cannot fathom how people can be so delusional to think that kind of stuff would ever work." A third user said: "The woman is completely nuts! But it is true - you see stupid people on the plane like this all the time."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.