Talent density is the collective amount of talent held by your employees. Aside from hiring for ... [+] density, you can also enable and activate it for existing employees. The CEO of Netflix Reed Hastings wrote: “In all creative roles, the best is easily ten times better than average. The best publicity expert can dream up a stunt that attracts millions more customers than the average one.” To capitalize on this idea at the company level, you have to grow what Hastings refers to as your “talent density.” Talent density is the collective amount of talent held by your employees. Aside from hiring for density, you can also enable and activate it for existing employees. To learn more about activating talent density and company culture in general, I met with the Chief People Officer of Zapier, Brandon Sammut. Over the next year, Sammut’s number one priority is to grow Zapier’s talent density. Zapier is a 12-year-old, 800-employee company that has always been remote. Its mission is to make automation work for everyone. Brandon Sammut, Chief People Officer of Zapier Sammut’s top focus over the next year is what he refers to as “growing talent density.” “Talent density means that every single person in the company has an unusually specific and impactful role as well as the context and tools that they need to succeed at a high level,” he elaborated. “It’s a concept that sounds simple in words, but it's a rare and special thing to pull off.” For example, Zapier has started to focus on training employees on how to put artificial intelligence (AI) to work for them. “Long after their time at Zapier, we want folks to say that Zapier is the place where they did the best work of their life. In part, because Zapier helped them understand not only how to make AI work in their daily job but also how to become super marketable in their careers.” One of the best strategies to impact culture and make it thrive is to begin at the hiring stage. Zapier uses this exact approach: “For well over 90% of the folks that join us, Zapier is their first all-remote company,” Sammut remarked. “This is where default transparency comes in. As a candidate, you want a lot of context. What is it like to work at a place like Zapier? It's not the perfect match for every person. And that's okay for everyone involved.” When it comes to onboarding, Zapier has a particularly rigorous onboarding experience to help prepare new hires for the fully remote culture. This experience begins with two intensive weeks of onboarding around working norms and follows with just-in-time learning for six months. “We use Zapier to automate just-in-time onboarding,” Sammut said. “That way, folks are getting the information they need when it's timely rather than all at once.” What was particularly impressive about Sammut’s approach to engagement was his team’s effort to “strive to do the common things uncommonly well.” Here are four key ways Sammut and his team measure engagement uncommonly well:   Since research correlates 70% of employee engagement to management, the way a company develops its leaders can be incredibly telling of its culture. Here are three key strategies behind Zapier’s approach to leadership development:   Sammut has simple advice for someone stepping into a chief people officer role. “No one expects you to know it all,” he said. “One of the most confidence-inspiring things you can say is, ‘I don't know yet, but here's when and how we're going to figure it out.’” Sammut went on to describe how he was pulled into his first chief people officer role earlier in his career than he had expected. “When you have those crucible moments, you may feel like you have to know everything, but you really don't. Be transparent about the difference between the things you do know and the things you don't know.” All of the chief people officers I have interviewed are voracious readers and learners. Asked what book he would recommend for HR professionals to read, Sammut recommended "Atomic Habits" by James Clear. “I would choose Atomic Habits because of how powerful and pragmatic his paradigm is. I think a lot of us experience anxiety at work. The concept of atomic habits breaks anxiety down into small, tangible actions. It’s a powerful tool to help you shed perfectionism and procrastination.” Kevin Kruse is the Founder + CEO of LEADx, scaling and sustaining leadership behaviors with behavioral nudges, micro-learning, and live cohort-based workshops. Kevin is also a New York Times bestselling author of Great Leaders Have No Rules, 15 Secrets Successful People Know About Time Management, and Employee Engagement 2.0.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.