By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:29 EDT, 22 June 2023   |  Updated:  13:40 EDT, 22 June 2023      232 View  comments  The Sex And The City ladies were back together again — and with plenty of nudity and naughty behavior — for the two-part premiere of And Just Like That... season two on Thursday. The first episode opens with plenty of bangs as Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker), Miranda Hobbes (Cynthia Nixon) and Charlotte York Goldenblatt (Kristin Davis) strip down for the cameras. Miranda enjoys a passionate hot tub romp with her non-binary lover, Che Diaz (Sara Ramirez) in Los Angeles, while the ladies in NYC hit the sheets with their men of choice. Showcasing her more experimental side, Miranda models a black leather strap-on for Che in the bedroom — but it doesn't go any farther that a try-on. While figuring out life after the death of 'Mr. Big,' Carrie finds herself back in her wedding dress as her original look for the Met Gala turns disastrous. This season also sees the return of new characters Lisa Todd Wexley (Nicole Ari Parker), Seema Patel (Sarita Choudhury) and Dr. Nya Wallace (Karen Pittman). The Sex And The City ladies were back together again — and with plenty of nudity and naughty behavior — for the two-part premiere of And Just Like That... season two on Thursday. Experimental: During another scene with Che, Miranda is seen modeling a strap-on  And while figuring out life after the death of 'Mr. Big,' Carrie finds herself back in her wedding dress as her original look for the Met Gala turns disastrous The episode kicks off with Carrie and Seema chatting about attending the Met Gala together — where they'll also be joined by Charlotte, Lisa and the ladies' 'gay BFF' Anthony Marentino (Mario Cantone). Carrie is having her look custom made by her former podcast co-host Jackie Nee's wife, but it's not her dress that's on her mind. It's revealed that Carrie's been sleeping with her hunky Sex And The City podcast producer Franklyn, who she kissed in the season one finale. The morning after one of their many 'Thursdays' together, Charlotte pays Carrie an unexpected visit and comes face-to-face with Franklyn. Charlotte wants all the details from Carrie, as does the rest of their friend group, but insists that it's low-key After a podcast taping, Franklyn invites Carrie for rooftop drinks with friends on 'Tuesday night.' Although she's flattered, the widow fears that her hookup may be wanting something more. Later, Carrie calls Che — who is also her former co-host and Miranda's lover — to ask they advice about keeping her and Franklyn's relationship about sex and not 'the rooftop.' She also grabs dinner with Charlotte, Seema and Anthony, where she clarifies that Franklyn is 'not a booty call,' but more so 'exit out of grief sex every Thursday with a very nice man.' Carrie still doesn't know what she'll do about the rooftop date until she learns on the day of the Met Gala that her look is still unfinished. All that's been completed is the cape. Because of this pressure, and Jackie finding Franklyn's jacket in her bedroom, Carrie calls him up and courageously says: 'I think I'm only ready for Thursdays with us.' 'Got it. You're not ready to book a table at Relationship Place,' Franklyn replies. Franklyn ends up being totally fine with their sex-only arrangement as he signs off their call with, 'Thursdays it is!' Miranda's hot tub time with Che wasn't her only NSFW scene In episode two, Miranda is seen between Che's legs  In a comedic tone, Miranda is fully nude as she tries to get into a hyperbaric chamber while Che's working on their sitcom With 'Tuesday night' out of the way, Carrie can now focus solely on not letting her Met Gala look be a total disaster. The poor designer is unable to finish sewing together the dress and begs Carrie to pick something from her closet that will go with the turquoise cape she slaved over. After taking a moment to think, Carrie comes up with the perfect plan. She pulls out the wedding dress and feathered veil she wore during her and Big's wedding and takes it for one final spin with the cape wrapped around her. 'And just like that, I repurposed my pain,' she signs off. Meanwhile, Miranda has been living with Che in Los Angeles as they prepare to film their first-ever sitcom. After a day of fittings and read-throughs, Che comes home and watches Miranda try on the kinky strap-on harness they bought her. 'Is this a strap on or a cat toy?' asks Miranda as she tries to fasten on the bondage gear. 'Can we move this along?' Che asks with a laugh while sprawled out on the bed. Charlotte enjoys a sex session with husband Harry   She is seen topless as she sits over him in bed   Carrie hooks up with her podcast producer Franklyn (Ivan Hernandez)  Nicole Ari Parker's Lisa is a vision for her husband in lingerie  Miranda says it's 'a lot of work' for something she doesn't even know if she's into, but, thankfully, a call from Carrie puts a stop to the madness. While Che was giving Carrie advice about Franklyn, Miranda got slightly turned off after hearing Che that sometimes 'things are just about sex.'  She removes the strap-on and, instead of a sexy encounter, decides to just get dinner with Che before Che's set at popular LA comedy club, The Comedy Store. Che brushes off the invite because they want to work on some new 'material' before their set. After their stand-up show, Che is greeted from behind by Miranda, who wraps her arms around them. 'Don't hug me. I'm at work,' Che says sternly. Miranda, clearly a little taken aback, she blurts out: 'You were so good!' Miranda calls out Che on their apparent distance in recent weeks and Che decides to come clean. They tell Miranda that they're 'on a diet' because all the fittings they've been getting for the sitcom have driven up some major body insecurities within them. Miranda admits that she'd been fearing that Che only wanted her for sex but is relieved and also saddened to learn that Che doesn't think they're attractive. 'Che, you are the most beautiful person I have ever seen,' say Miranda, while perched over her lover in bed. 'You know what? I am the most beautiful person you've ever seen. F**k, TV!' Che responds with a laugh. Meanwhile, Charlotte is also going to the met and promised Anthony he'd be her plus-one but those plans are thwarted due to a mix-up. Charlotte's husband, Harry Goldenblatt (Evan Handler), somehow thinks he's going to be on Charlotte's arm that night after mistaking Anthony's tuxedo for his after it was delivered to their home. Charlotte breaks the news to Anthony, who is not happy. 'I can't take my best gay friend over my husband,' she tells him.  Carrie is in the throws of a casual romance with her producer Franklyn But she seeks her pals' advice after he asks her out on a real date instead of just a hookup  During Met Gala madness, she conjures up the courage to tell Franklin that she just wants to keep things as they are While Che was giving Carrie advice about Franklyn, Miranda got slightly turned off after hearing Che that sometimes 'things are just about sex' Later, Miranda calls out Che on their apparent distance in recent weeks and Che decides to come clean They tell Miranda that they're 'on a diet' because all the fittings they've been getting for the sitcom have driven up some major body insecurities within them 'Che, you are the most beautiful person I have ever seen,' say Miranda, while perched over her lover in bed But it all works out as Carrie now has a plus-one open after Seema had to abruptly dip out in order to meet her boyfriend's kid for the very first time. Charlotte's two kids, Lily York Goldenblatt (Cathy Ang) and Rose Goldenblatt, or 'Rock,' help her tie into her risque corset dress for the Met. Anthony suddenly finds himself without a ticket because Seema abruptly decides to go after learning her boyfriend Zed still lives with his ex-wife. Seema quickly leaves Zed behind at lunch but he runs after her to ask 'where' she's going. 'To my home, which I don't live in with my ex-wife. This feels like a mess and I am not missing the Met for a mess,' she says before slamming the car door closed. But Anthony's luck turns around for a second time as Charlotte calls him up to tell him that she's ditching Harry and needs him at the Met in 20 minutes.  Meanwhile, Nya Wallace (Karen Pittman) is feeling a lack of affection as her husband Andre Rashad is away on tour. With only FaceTime calls to savor, Nya finds herself enjoying dinners alone and watching other couples share passionate sex on Netflix. While reading and drinking wine at a restaurant one night,Nya is approached by a handsome man named Toussaint. Clearly interested in her, he asks if he could join her for dessert. 'Have you ever had the molten chocolate cake here? It will make you see the face of God!' he says. Nya is smitten but flashes her ring and he gets the hint. She returns home wine drunk and attempts to FaceTime her husband but he denies the call. Nya then calls him by phone and forces him to FaceTime her — and she's shocked to see that he is with a backup singer is in his hotel room. In episode two, fans see the end of Carrie's short-lived romance with Franklyn as they come together to help formulate a more authentic sounding 'vaginal wellness' ad to air during the podcast. 'No human being speaks like that,' she says of the script, with the studio head telling her to try and put it in her own words.  Seema decides to skip the Met Gala after her boyfriend Zed asks her to meet his son for the first time that same Monday But with several hours to spare the day-of, Seema learns that Zed is still living with his ex-wife and not the put-together Prince Charming she once thought he was Nya gets drunk one night and calls her husband, who has been away on tour But when she FaceTimes him, she learns he's in his hotel room with a backup singer Lisa is stressed about the final edit of her documentary But that doesn't stop her from pulling out all the stops for the Met Gala in bright red Valentino It's a 'deal-breaker' for the studio, so one of Carrie and Franklyn's 'Thursdays' turns into a workday as they lounge in bed trying to come up with the right words. Unfortunately, they come up with nothing.  'I think my vagina has to write its own monologue,' she says, before taking her laptop to her desk.  The next day, they learn that the podcast has been cancelled as the studio has been purchased out by a major media company. With the rug pulled out from under them, Franklyn realizes that this may not just be the end of the podcast. He tells Carrie that he wants 'more' from her romantically, so it's best they part ways. Elsewhere in the episode, Che is dealing with major changes to their show's script and Miranda attends an AA meeting in Los Angeles, where she's invited to attend a beach clean up day. Tony Danza makes an appearance in the episode as himself as he will play Che's father in their sitcom and Miranda is thrilled to be meeting him. On the day of the beach clean-up,  Miranda loses her phone and has to rummage through all the cleanup bags to find it — thus making the beach filthy again. But it was unsuccessful, so she has to ask some surfers for their phone so she can call an Uber ride home. She calls Carrie to ask for Che's number. Miranda then asks Che to come get her from Malibu but understand that it will make them late for dinner with Tony. 'You can't cancel! It's Tony Danza,' Miranda exclaims. Che decides to send a car for Miranda so they can meet them at the restaurant. A man by the name of Lyle (Oliver Hudson) picks Miranda in a bright purple truck and she thanks him for the ride. 'How do you know Che? Miranda asks. 'We were married! Technically still are,' he replies. With such a bombshell, Miranda does not go to dinner and instead waits from Che at home. In episode two, fans see the end of Carrie's short-lived romance with Franklyn as they come together to help formulate a more authentic sounding 'vaginal wellness' ad to air during the podcast It's a 'deal-breaker' for the studio, so one of Carrie and Franklyn's 'Thursdays' turns into a workday as they lounge in bed trying to come up with the right words The next day, they learn that the podcast has been cancelled as the studio has been purchased out by a major media company With the rug pulled out from under them, Franklyn realizes that this may not just be the end of the podcast. He tells Carrie that he wants 'more' from her romantically, so it's best they part ways Miranda loses her phone during a beach cleanup day and has to call Che to call her an Uber But Che has an old friend named Lyle (Oliver Hudson) pick up Miranda, instead, in his bright purple truck Miranda learns that Lyle is married to Che, so she confronts them at their LA home As Che arrives back, Miranda confronts them about their secret marriage and reads into the fact that she doesn't even know Che's cellphone number. 'Che, I don't know who you are,' Miranda says with a sigh, but Che salvages the day by explaining that the marriage is still intact out of 'laziness' and not love. 'Let's not let your lost phone because a couple's existential crisis,' Che tells Miranda before covering her face in kisses. Proud that Zed is behind her, Seema head to the hair salon for a blow-out. But her hairstylist Juan Jose calls her out for giving him the boot so early and that she always finds something wrong with the men she dates. She gets back with Zed to prove a point, but Seema learns that most clients don't listen to the harsh advice her stylist spews. In a later scene, Seema is seen at dinner with Zed where she calls him out on a sketchy scheme he attempted to pitch to her. 'What's it called? 'Red Flag'? I thought those five text [you sent me] were suspect. Three would've been appropriate,' she says. He claims it is a 'legitimate investment' but she's not buying it. 'Well, maybe. But I'm investing in myself. Juan Jose was wrong. I was right.' After calling him drunk on FaceTime, Nya get ahold of her husband again for another call. Andre admits that sometimes he does think about cheating but that he also wants him and Nya to 'work out.' But it's when he suggests that a surrogate may be a solution to her fertility issues, that really sets Nya over the edge and she decides to leave him for good. Proud that Zed is behind her, Seema head to the hair salon for a blow-out. But her hairstylist Juan Jose calls her out for giving him the boot so early and that she always finds something wrong with the men she dates In a later scene, Seema is seen at dinner with Zed where she calls him out on a sketchy scheme he attempted to pitch to her Charlotte learns the lesson of 'letting go' after her eldest daughter Lily decides to sell off her expensive wardrobe in order to pay for new musical equipment As she goes to face the shopkeepers at The Real Deal — the place that now owns Lily's old clothes — she tries buy as many back as possible Tense: After calling him drunk on FaceTime, Nya get ahold of her husband again for another call Andre admits that sometimes he does think about cheating but that he also wants him and Nya to 'work out' Lisa and family have to deal with her high-string mother-in-law Eunice for the week Charlotte learns the lesson of 'letting go' after her eldest daughter Lily decides to sell off her expensive wardrobe in order to pay for new musical equipment. As she goes to face the shopkeepers at The Real Deal — the place that now owns Lily's old clothes — she tries buy as many back as possible. But the pieces of clothing are already scattered across different warehouses and some are even on 'hold' for other buyers — including a dainty pink Chanel dress that Lily once wore for a piano recital. 'Is she rejecting it or is she just outgrowing it?' Carrie asks her of Lily's decision to move on from her things. 'I don't need that dress. I have the memory. And Lily… whoever she is now!' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group