VALERIE MACON/AFP via Getty; Kevin Winter/Getty  Zendaya is embracing romantic hues — and outfit changes — at the 2023 SAG Awards! While presenting the award for outstanding performance by a female actor in a miniseries or television movie alongside Paul Mescal, the Euphoria actress stepped out onto the stage in a different gown than the one she wore on the red carpet. Her new look featured a cutout, color-blocked geometric bodice complete with a black and blue top and a silky pink train. While she went simple with no bracelets or rings, Zendaya compensated for the stunningly effortless look with an dazzling crystal choker complete with a dark jewel in the center. In her first outfit from the night, she brought all the Old Hollywood glam vibes to the 2023 SAG Awards red carpet. From her hair to her gown, everything oozed vintage. She stepped out wearing a strapless blush pink Valentino gown with a train covered in sculpted rosettes. The dress featured a tight-fitting bodice and a trumpet silhouette with a robust train. No matter which way Zendaya turned, there was something to look at. Though her glam looked understated, the rosy hue of both her cheeks and eyes brought just enough color to tie into the gown and amp up the glamour. The actress also brought in a touch of flair on her eyes, with bold eyelashes on the top and bottom. She completed her look with Bulgari jewels. RELATED: See the Full List of 2023 SAG Award Nominations Amy Sussman/WireImage  RELATED: Zendaya Brings Old Hollywood Glam to the SAG Awards 2023 Red Carpet in Dramatic Pink Gown Zendaya, 26, is nominated for outstanding performance by a female actor in a drama series for her role in Euphoria. Though she's snagged two Emmy awards for this role — in two nominations — this is her first nod for a SAG Award for the show. This red carpet appearance is another in a long history of impressive outings for the actress. Though she missed this year's Critics' Choice Awards — where she nabbed a trophy for her Euphoria role — she did walk the red carpet at last night's NAACP Image Awards. Even more, she did another quick change for the show, stepping out in a second look! Frazer Harrison/Getty  Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free weekly newsletter to get the biggest news of the week delivered to your inbox every Friday. She walked the carpet in a black and green vintage Versace look before changing into a custom white Prada look that was inspired by a piece from the fashion house's SS1993 collection. Zendaya also strolled the carpet at September's Emmy Awards in a dramatic Valentino gown. Styled by image architect Law Roach, the star donned a strapless all-black Valentino ball gown, which featured a corseted bodice cinched with a bow-adorned belt, a circular train and pockets. She teamed the look with Bulgari jewelry and a retro bouffant hairstyle tied back with a black satin headband. The 2023 SAG Awards ceremony is airing live on Sunday, Feb. 26 from the Fairmont Century Plaza in Los Angeles. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.