Showbiz Sign up to our free weekly newsletter for exclusive competitions, offers and theatre ticket deals  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. Tom Holland has revealed that he “does not like Hollywood” in a candid new interview about the pitfalls of fame. Despite being one of the biggest names in Tinseltown, the Spider-Man star, 27, admitted that the entertainment industry is “not for him” and “scares” him as he discussed how he stays grounded. Speaking to Jay Shetty on his podcast, the British actor, who was catapulted into the limelight playing Peter Parker in the MCU, said: “Look, I really am a massive fan of making movies but I really do not like Hollywood, it is not for me. “The business really scares me. I understand that I’m a part of that business, and I enjoy my kind of interactions with it. “But that said, I am always looking for ways to kind of remove myself from it, to kind of just live as normal a life as possible,” he continued. “Today, doing this [podcast] is a very rare thing for me to do.” The Kingston native admitted that he wouldn’t normally be so candid in a regular interview, but as he’s a fan of the podcast, he felt it was a “safe space” to do so. Holland, who has been acting since he was nine years-old, then discussed how some of his friends have “lost themselves” to the movie business. He explained: “I definitely think it has been an ongoing thought, which is don’t lose yourself. “I’ve seen so many people come before me and lose themselves, and I’ve had friends that I’ve grown up with that aren’t friends of mine anymore, because they’ve lost themselves to this business. “I just am really, really keen to focus on what makes me happy, which is my family, it’s my friends. It’s my carpentry, my golf, the charity that my mum runs. “Like, that is the stuff that makes me really happy, and that’s the stuff that I should protect.” A complete timeline of Zendaya and Tom Holland's relationship Mia McKenna-Bruce: 'Ryan Gosling nearly put me off my acceptance speech' Have we fallen out of love with booze culture? Buying a new car? Here's why Omoda needs to be on your radar Elsewhere in the interview, the Crowded Room actor revealed he keeps his relationship with girlfriend Zendaya private in a bid to protect it. He added: “My relationship is the thing that I keep most sacred, I don’t talk about it. “I try my best to keep it as private as possible, we both feel very strongly that that is the healthiest way for us to move on as a couple.” Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow 3 Comment We need to talk about All Points East: why is everyone at festivals suddenly so hot? 4 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 5 Football Man City injury update: Rodri, Savinho, Oscar Bobb latest news and return dates