UK Edition Secret supper clubs, hidden farms and perfect pub gardens: welcome to your little black book of summer recommendations from Britain’s best chefs and restaurateurs. From seaside stalwarts to tucked-away gems, we asked them for their favourite places to eat when the sun comes out, and what they order when they’re there.  Haven’t heard of a few of them? That’s the point. Some of chef Oli Brown’s recommendations in Kent are so off grid that you can’t book online.  There is a spot for watching the sunset over the waterfront in St Mawes, picked by Cornwall-based chef Simon Stallard, a picturesque café in the forests of Snowdonia, a favourite of Welsh chef Tomos Parry, and the best spot for fish and chips on the east coast, according to George Pell, who owns the Suffolk in Aldeburgh.  There’s “lip-smacking” ramen in Penryn, a posh deli in the Cotswolds for picking up packed lunches and a Scottish fish shop famous for its brilliant crab crumpets.  All you need to do is hope the weather holds out.  Chosen by Hugo and Olive Guest, owners of Glebe House, Devon  Get a whole fish to share (think brill or turbot) with French fries, right on the waterfront. A really good wine list. Chris Pike, the owner, is a great host (thepeagreenboat.com).  A very simple place that sells sandwiches. The crab ones are to die for. I have just white meat with vinegar and white pepper. Utterly delicious (01803 839036). I love this place. The sushi is some of the best I’ve eaten and is prepared by the young Japanese chef and his team. Order tempura cuttlefish (facebook.com/gotoJapanese).  • Where the chefs eat on holiday: the foodies’ guide to Europe Chosen by Welsh chef Tomos Parry, owner of Brat and Mountain, London  Magnificent location on a quiet beach with views over to Anglesey. They make some of the best ice cream around (facebook.com/brafdinasdinlle). Picturesque café in the forests of Snowdonia. It has been there for 20 years and it’s perfect after walking around the lakes of Snowdonia on a sunny day (caban-cyf.org). Family run and serves local laverbread, cockles and shellfish. There is nothing better on a sunny day than taking away some crab with a cold beer (beachfood.co.uk). A brilliant seaside pub with a setting that’s almost become iconic. The pub garden rolls onto the small beach with dramatic and beautiful views of the sea (tycoch.co.uk).  Chosen by Simon Stallard, chef and owner of Hidden Hut and Standard Inn, Portscatho  Small plates and craft beer – there’s not much not to like. We head to the seafood bar at lunch (verdantbrewing.co).  A hidden Cornish gem tucked away in the countryside. Feast nights celebrate the great produce they grow (nancarrowfarm.co.uk).  The waterfront terrace at this hotel is the best place to catch the sunset. We love sipping a negroni in the early evening (idlerocks.com).  Think the freshest sashimi, lip-sticking ramen, shredded meat bao buns. On the riverside in an old warehouse, I love the vibe of this place. Always busy, but always worth the wait (facebook.com/bangostreetkitchen).  Chosen by George Pell, owner of the Suffolk, Aldeburgh, and L’Escargot, London  A rural wonderland that hosts weekly supper clubs. The owners have transformed a run-down old farmhouse, chickens roam the orchards and a natural pool has been lovingly introduced (huskthorington.co.uk).  I’d describe this as the most picturesque pub in the country. The pasta is world class, but make sure you leave room for the chocolate tart (greyhoundpettistree.co.uk).  This sells the finest fish and chips on the east coast, but don’t be fooled – it also offers an awesome selection of shellfish and oysters. It’s really near the delightful river ferry crossing from Walberswick (solebayfishco.co.uk). This is the best pub sunset you’ll experience, in a magical place on the River Deben. Look out for when they do one of their excellent barbecues (theramsholtarms.com).  Chosen by Oli Brown, chef and proprietor at Updown Farmhouse, Kent  The team champion the best of the produce from the area. If it is not in season, it is not available; if it is not local, it is not available. It’s a regular haunt for me and industry friends (thegoodsshed.co.uk).  No online bookings, just phone reservations. This charming Spanish restaurant knocks out fabulous small plates. Order the tortilla, grilled prawns and the Basque cheesecake (harbourstreettapas.com).  Wine bar selling bottles to enjoy on the pebbled beach of Sandgate alongside brilliantly sourced charcuterie, cheese and small plates (instagram.com/johndorywine). An unassuming bistro tucked behind the main promenade. The menu offers fish caught that morning (angelasofmargate.com).  Chosen by Tom Noest and Peter Creed, the restaurateurs behind the Bell Inn, Langford, and the Lamb Inn, Shipton Outdoor seating, amazing views, super-relaxed and there are often barbecues with chef Adam Glover at the helm (thewoolpackslad.com).  With a stunning terrace, this is one of the smartest restaurants in the area. The kitchen garden provides a lot of the produce (thyme.co.uk/eat/ox-barn).  We want to throw this in as a “restaurant cheat” – it’s a great deli that does the best takeaway picnics. The fried chicken and shrimp rolls are epic. Eat in a field for an unbeatable view and meal (dambrosi.co.uk).  This is a circus and dinner for all ages. The day show is a two-part, family-friendly circus while the evening show is a five-course dinner for adults (foolsdelight.co.uk).  Chosen by Joshua and Victoria Overington, the team behind Mýse, Hovingham  One of our favourite days out with the family and dog. The courtyard café is a great stop for lunch and coffee before exploring the grounds (castlehoward.co.uk). Our go-to place for breakfast and brunch in York. The steak and eggs on flatbread with chimichurri is right up there. The outside tables are in a suntrap (robinsonsyork.co.uk). One of the best beer gardens in Yorkshire, overlooking the River Ouse, with courtyard tables for dining as well. Great for Sunday lunch too (thedawnayatnewton.co.uk).  This new pub with rooms from Tommy Banks is firing on all cylinders. This is already a special place – and the view is hard to beat (abbeyinnbyland.co.uk).  As a Times+ member, you have the chance to win a foodie trip to the Abbey Inn. Visit mytimesplus.co.uk to find out more Chosen by Tom Barnes, executive chef at L’Enclume and Rogan & Co, Cartmel  Sitting at a crossroads in the middle of the countryside, this is a snug pub with great views and excellent, unpretentious food. Visit after a long summer walk (drunkenduckinn.co.uk).  The sourdough pizzas are great. The dough is fermented for 48 hours and baked in a proper wood-fired oven, which gives the pizzas a smoky flavour. Perfect for eating in the sunshine (basepizzaplace.co.uk).  This café has great vegetarian dishes. It’s a riverside location with outdoor seating that is a big draw (chestersbytheriver.co.uk).  This butcher’s has been run by the same family since 1983 and produces pies and sausage rolls daily. The Huntsman pie is my favourite – full of pork, chicken and stuffing. Perfect for a picnic (higginsonsofgrange.co.uk).  Chosen by Nicholas Balfe, co-founder and chef-director of Holm in South Petherton  One of the oldest and greatest cider-making farms in Somerset is at Burrow Hill. Most Saturdays in the summer their cider bus is pumping; they have live music, pints of cider and street food (somersetciderbrandy.com). Situated in a really pretty Somerset village, the beer garden out back has plenty of sunny seats (lordpoulettarms.com). A glass of bubbles and a tour of the vineyard is a really nice way to spend a few hours. I recommend the Trilogy champagne-style blend (smithandevans.co.uk). Our new neighbours in South Petherton have a cute table for two outside their shop. As well as XL measures of wine by the glass, they have a lovely selection of cheese and charcuterie (thebloomwinecompany.com). Chosen by Gabriel Waterhouse, chef-owner of the Water House Project in London and a native of Northumberland The gastro pub is renowned for its crab sandwiches. It’s one of my favourite pubs, with wonderful views of the sea (thejollyfishermancraster.co.uk).  Usually filled with walkers and peaceful dogs. Order the smoked kippers on toast (shipinnnewton.co.uk).  Confident cooking served on the seafront. As the name suggests, lobster is the speciality (thepottedlobster.co.uk/bamburgh).  A Michelin-star restaurant in an old barn. The tasting menu uses foraged ingredients from the local countryside (restaurantpine.co.uk).  Chosen by Adam Maddock, head chef of the Fife Arms in Braemar  This is a fantastic spot. It hosts rooftop dinners in the summer where they cook over an open fire and food is served feast style. There’s live music too (tarmachancafe.com).  In the beautiful town of Nairn, the Garden Café is in a stunning walled garden. Order the “game of the day” (boath-house.com).  Some of the best seafood in Scotland. Dishes change daily depending on what was caught. There’s no better view (seafoodshack.co.uk).  The crab crumpets here are famous. The restaurant has a boat table and a basket-weave fish-shoal installation hanging from the ceiling, making you feel like you’re in the middle of the sea (fishshopballater.co.uk).  Chosen by Isaac Bartlett-Copeland, chef at Embers in Brighton  The place for fish and chips in Sussex. Everything is made from scratch (rybka.fish).  Chosen by Isaac Bartlett-Copeland, chef at Embers in Brighton This is right on the beach and makes you feel like you’re on a Spanish island. The crab is as fresh as it gets (crabshackworthing.co.uk).  A rustic little spot right on the seafront serving fantastic seafood, sandwiches and sweet treats. I usually order a half pint of prawns and a local beer (thebeachshack-steephillcove.co.uk).  This is the spot for summer drinks. It’s very picturesque and the beer garden overlooks the Solent (thegeorge.co.uk).  Chosen by Norfolk-born Tom Aikens, chef-owner of Muse in Belgravia, London  A family-run farm with a butchery, deli and café serving amazing dairy products from their Jersey cows, including afternoon tea, ice cream and milkshakes. It’s a wonderful family day out and a perfect spot for lunch (oldhallfarm.co.uk).  This family brewery hosts a street food event on the last Friday of every month from May to August, with live music, delicious food and plenty of its own beer (barshambrewery.co.uk). © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.