Information and photo via Cody-White Funeral Home Debra J. (Zeek) Dubien, 66, of Milford, passed away on April 16, 2023, after a courageous battle with cancer.  Born on June 24, 1956, in Sumpter, S.C., she was the daughter of the late John E. and Joan (Shropshire) Zeek. Debra spent the majority of her life living in Milford. She worked part-time at Milford Rivet & Machine Co. and Page Motors Chevrolet during high school. She then returned to Milford Rivet full-time until 1987. She spent the next 10 years at home with her children, which became the most memorable time for her.  After that, Debbie began substituting for secretaries at the Milford Board of Education, which led to full-time work in the instructional division for 22 years. She helped provide for so many students in the Milford Public Schools through her hard work. Debbie was active with Mary Taylor Church, where friends were like a second family. She was involved in many church missions such as Prayer Shawls, Community Dinners, supporting children at Boys & Girls Village, United Methodist Women, Tres Dias Retreats (now named Footsteps), bible studies, and mission trips to Biloxi to provide hurricane disaster relief. Her dedication, steadfast advocacy, and faith were felt deeply by all. She never looked for thanks or praise, yet she deserved both. Debbie enjoyed crocheting, gardening, and baking. She was the family genealogist, loved nature and cats, and made the best potato salad. Her greatest joy was being a mother and grandmother. She will be greatly missed by the many who loved her. Debra is survived by her children, Alison (Timothy) Pitts and Jeffrey Dubien; her grandchildren, Elise and Eric; her siblings, Suzanne (Mark) Buchter, John (Jennifer) Zeek, Daniel Zeek, and David (Symathia) Zeek; her former spouse and the father of her beloved children, Alfred Dubien; her cat, Natasha; and many nieces, nephews, and extended family members, including Christopher Zeek, of whom she was incredibly close. Friends and family may call from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Friday, April 21, 2023, at the CODY-WHITE FUNERAL HOME, 107 BROAD St., MILFORD, CT.  In addition, a Memorial Service will be held at Mary Taylor Memorial United Methodist Church at 10 a.m. on Saturday, April 22, 2023, with a reception to follow.  The interment will be private. In place of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Mary Taylor Memorial United Methodist Church, Footsteps in the Sand, CT Hospice, Christine’s Critters, or A Place Called Hope. To plant a beautiful memorial tree in memory of Debra Dubien, please visit our Tree Store. Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.