Join the Club! Get all the gossip on fashion and beauty and never miss out on top stories again We have more newsletters Join the Club! Get all the gossip on fashion and beauty and never miss out on top stories again We have more newsletters Former Made in Chelsea star, Tiffany Watson paid a visit to her favourite London salon to get a hair refresh, ahead of her approaching due date. The 29 year old visited the Michaeljohn Salon & MediSpa in London, which is a firm favourite of celebs including Tiffany’s sister, Lucy Watson.  While she was there, she gave her blonde locks a boost, sharing a snap on Instagram showing her hair in foils, before revealing the final outcome being blowdried and cut by stylist Imy. Tiffany, who had a main role on Channel 4’s Made in Chelsea for several years, recently made a brief return for some scenes with current cast members as she showed off her growing baby bump. Although she’s mostly stayed out of the spotlight since leaving the show, the reality star hasn’t given up on her Chelsea ways, opting to get an ‘expensive blonde’ hair colour.  The shade was first trending in early 2022, with celebrities including Euphoria’s Sydney Sweeney, Vogue Williams, and even Zendaya opting for the gorgeous blonde look.  Designer colourist Sofia  from the  Live True  salon in London Soho said: “An expensive blonde can be described as a warm shade of blonde that features fewer shadows, and a soft contrast between warm shades as opposed to just one set colour.  “It can look a little like a balayage with darker roots and lighter ends, but there is more of a softness and creaminess to it.” The creamy undertones and fewer shadows are what makes the colour universally flattering, as it suits a wide variety of skin tones, and is a much softer alternative to the traditionally ashy and platinum blonde colours. Sofia explained: “The key to this colour is to keep the hair looking creamy and slightly warm in tone, rather than an ashy shade. “People got a bit tired of the white and ashy blondes, so beige is the go-to now for summer.” Although Tiffany didn’t give her followers a final look at her hair, during the drying process fans can clearly see the much warmer, softer blonde shade that her hair had been coloured.  The style is also easier to maintain, as the softer shades and warmer undertones are less likely to discolour or turn brassy than a white or platinum blonde – perfect for soon to be mum Tiff. READ MORE: Click here for today's top showbiz news Jennifer Garner debuts a short bob and a sun-faded pink hair colour transformation Ariana Grande looks like a teenager with new 'baby bangs' We review the best face SPFs for every skin type – from oily to sensitive complexions Alesha Dixon wore Charlotte Tilbury's latest beauty must-haves to host Eurovision 