A monthly overview of things you need to know as an architect or aspiring architect. View an example  
We protect your privacy.
 
                        Facilitating the Spread of Knowledge and Innovation in Professional Software Development
                       
Back to login
  
Back to login
 Jeremy Ruston explores what made the BBC Micro attractive and what can be learned from it today. Gregor Hohpe reflects on two decades working as an architect, ranging from the executive penthouse to the serverless engine room. The presenters discuss an introduction to incremental data processing, contrasting it with the two prevalent processing models of today - batch and stream data processing. In Jan 2023, we received word that we’d need to build a microblogging service to compete with Twitter in a couple of months. A small team was assembled to take on that challenge, and we shipped a new social network in July. This article describes how we developed and launched the Threads app at Meta last year. David Stenglein discusses the shift to a product model for internal platforms and how this benefits from people-centric tools like customer empathy and the new DevEx framework. Get clarity from senior software practitioners on today's critical dev priorities. Register Now. Level up your software skills by uncovering the emerging trends you should focus on. Register now. Discover emerging trends, insights, and real-world best practices in software development & tech leadership. Join now. Your monthly guide to all the topics, technologies and techniques that every professional needs to know about. Subscribe for free. 
InfoQ Homepage
Presentations
Keynote: Jeff Lawson on Software Development
 Jeff Lawson shares some of the lessons learned in his career and discusses the current trends in software and challenges developers have to face. Jeff Lawson is co-founder and CEO of Twilio, where he brings over 10 years of entrepreneurial product leadership experience. Before Twilio, Jeff served as Product Manager for Amazon Web Services, and has held founding executive roles for NineStar, Stubhub.com, and Versity.com API Strategy and Practice is a vendor neutral and community supported API industry conference. Recorded at: Oct 16, 2013 by 


Jeff Lawson

 A round-up of last week’s content on InfoQ sent out every Tuesday. Join a community of over 250,000 senior developers.
		
			View an example
  
We protect your privacy.
  InfoQ Dev Summit Munich September 26-27, 2024 InfoQ Dev Summit Munich is a two-day software conference featuring 22 technical talks sharing actionable insights on Generative AI, security, modern web apps, and more. Learn from senior developers facing the same challenges as you as they share proven tactics, not just trends, empowering you to make smart, focused choices for your immediate dev roadmap.Register Now 
					InfoQ.com and all content copyright © 2006-2024 C4Media Inc.
Privacy Notice, Terms And Conditions, Cookie Policy
