
					By Matt Grobar  Senior Film Reporter 
Tim Blake Nelson is the newest addition to the cast of Dune: Part Two, Deadline can confirm.  
	Details as to the character he’ll be playing in the film, which wrapped production late last year, are under wraps. But he’s set to star alongside such fellow newcomers to the franchise as Florence Pugh, Austin Butler, Léa Seydoux and Christopher Walken, as well as returning cast members Timothée Chalamet, Rebecca Ferguson, Zendaya, Stellan Skarsgård and Javier Bardem.  
Dune: Part Two is the second in a line of blockbusters, based on Frank Herbert’s epic sci-fi novel, that Denis Villeneuve has directed for Warner Bros and Legendary Entertainment. The first, released in the fall of 2021, landed six Oscars and grossed over $402MM worldwide.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					'Horizon: An American Saga - Chapter 1' Sets Max Premiere Date		
			















	News
	



	
		
					2024 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming		
			





 
	Villeneuve directed the sequel from his script and produced with Mary Parent, Cale Boyter, Tanya Lapointe and Patrick McCormick. Josh Grode, Herbert W. Gains, Brian Herbert, Byron Merritt, Kim Herbert, Thomas Tull, Jon Spaihts, Richard P. Rubinstein and John Harrison exec produced, with Kevin J. Anderson serving as creative consultant. Pic is slated for release on November 3.




			Watch on Deadline		




 
	Nelson recently led Potsy Ponciroli’s acclaimed Western Old Henry, also appearing in Showtime’s George & Tammy, Guillermo del Toro’s Cabinet of Curiosities for Netflix, Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio and Nightmare Alley, and the STX sports drama National Champions. Other upcoming projects for the always-busy actor include Ponciroli’s crime comedy Providence, Dexter Fletcher’s Ghosted for Apple, Marvel’s Captain America: New World Order and Rian Johnson’s Peacock series, Poker Face, to name a few. 
	Nelson’s Dune casting was first reported by The Hollywood Reporter. The actor is repped by UTA, Gateway Management Company and Brecheen Feldman Breimer. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	