Hindu statesman Rajan Zed Hindu invocation is scheduled to be read for the first time in the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories in Yellowknife (Canada) on August 21, containing verses from world’s oldest extant scripture. Reno based Hindu statesman Rajan Zed will deliver the invocation from ancient Sanskrit scriptures. After Sanskrit delivery, he then will read the English interpretation of the prayers. Sanskrit is considered a sacred language in Hinduism and the root language of Indo-European languages. Zed, who is the President of Universal Society of Hinduism, will recite from Rig-Veda, the oldest scripture of the world still in common use; besides lines from Upanishads and Bhagavad-Gita (Song of the Lord), both ancient Hindu scriptures. He plans to start and end the prayer with “Om”, the mystical syllable containing the universe, which in Hinduism is used to introduce and conclude religious work.  Reciting from Brahadaranyakopanishad, Rajan Zed plans to say “Asato ma sad gamaya, Tamaso ma jyotir gamaya, Mrtyor mamrtam gamaya”; which he will then interpret as “Lead us from the unreal to the real, Lead us from darkness to light, and Lead us from death to immortality.” Reciting from Bhagavad-Gita, he proposes to urge members and others present to keep the welfare of others always in mind. Zed, a global Hindu and interfaith leader, has been bestowed with the World Interfaith Leader Award. Zed is Senior Fellow and Religious Advisor to Foundation for Religious Diplomacy, on the Advisory Board of The Interfaith Peace Project, etc. He has been panelist for “On Faith”, a prestigious interactive conversation on religion produced by The Washington Post; and produces a weekly multi-faith panel “Faith Forum” in a Gannett publication for over 12 years. Hinduism, oldest and third largest religion of the world, has about 1.2 billion adherents and moksh (liberation) is its ultimate goal. The history of Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories goes back to 1951, which runs on a "consensus system of government instead of one based on party politics". Frederick Blake Junior is the Speaker. Click here to get the latest news sent to
your inbox every day ... or see all stories On Thursday, eight Carson City youth graduated from a ten-week wilderness program designed for minors who have been court ordered on probation and into the program.  According to Ali Banister, Chief of Juvenile Services in Carson City, the participants embarked on a “transformative ten-week adventure,” which totaled over 300 hours of “intense learning and personal growth.” According to the Nevada Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation’s (DETR) July 2024 economic report, Nevada’s unemployment rate increased by 0.2 percentage points to 5.4 percent and the state saw a decrease of 1,500 nonfarm jobs. Join UNR Extension Master Gardeners at the Carson City Community Garden for our monthly Garden Talks.
Topic: Technology in the Garden. Calling All History Buffs! The Friends of the Nevada State Museum invites the community to celebrate Nevada's rich history and support a worthy cause at the Tin Cup Roundup Barbecue. On August 15, 2024, at approximately 2:07 PM, Lyon County Deputies responded to the Dollar General Store, located at 101 Ambrose Ln. in reference to a subject who attempted to place a credit card skimming device on the card reader in the store. Nevada Gourd Society is hosting the 6th Annual Silver State Art Festival, September 6-8, 2024, in Fuji Exhibit Hall and Park, Carson City (across from Costco). A 43-year-old man was arrested for felony indecent exposure in front of minors, gross misdemeanor indecent exposure, and failure to register as an ex-felon. According to an email sent to Nevada State employees Wednesday, Aug. 14, Carson Tahoe Health has decided to no longer take current Nevada State PEBP insurance. The annual Carson City Historical Society's Ice Cream Social is Saturday, Aug. 24th, from 3-5 p.m. at the Foreman-Roberts House Museum Park, 1207 N. Carson Street, Carson City. Joe will perform in the Grand Showroom on Saturday, August 24, 2024 with two shows at 6pm & 8pm. Joe Piscopo returns to Carson City, Nevada to perform in the new Grand Showroom at the Carson Nugget Casino on Saturday, August 24. Help us plan for the future of the Carson River!  Our department is seeking responses for the Carson River User Experience survey. Your input is essential in helping us update the Carson River Master Plan. Nevada Humane Society, Carson City branch pet of the week is Canela, a joyful four-year-old American Staffordshire Terrier who has a smile that will light up any room. The first day of school around the corner. Need school supplies? How about a new backpack? There's two upcoming events that can help. The first is Friday in Carson City at Mills Park and the second is August 24 at any of four Lyon County Sheriff's Office substations. Nashville Social Club is bringing more award winning acts to Northern Nevada this September with Lifetime Achievement Grammy Award Winner, Booker T. Jones live in The Swan Music Hall for two rare performances on Friday, Sept. 20 and Saturday, Sept. 21 at 7:30pm. Dr. Winnie Kortemeier is excited to share her recent training in near-surface geophysical methods with her geology students in classes on Western Nevada College’s Carson City campus this fall. Carson City Fire Department and sheriff's deputies were called late Wednesday afternoon to a vehicle crash in the area of College Parkway and Research Way. Some of the beauty of living in Carson Valley centers is the strong sense of community. People helping people is a time-honored tradition and is woven into the fabric of Carson Valley living. At the core of this tradition are numerous organizations focused on providing services and opportunities for connection. Pedestrian safety is a two-way street. Nevada State Police is partnering this month with law enforcement agencies statewide in the Joining Forces campaign that urges pedestrians and drivers to be aware of each other and to share the road responsibly. Friends of the Nevada State Museum are pleased to announce the reprinting of a historic Nevada State Museum cookbook. This was possible thanks to the assistance of staffs from Nevada State Library and Archives in Carson City and the State Print Shop. Members of the Carson High School varsity football and cheer teams climbed to new heights Tuesday morning when they connected as seniors and teammates to reconstruct and restore Carson City’s iconic Block ‘C’ on C-Hill. The next Carson City Board of Supervisors meeting will be held Thursday, Aug. 15 beginning at 8:30 a.m. in the Bob Crowell Board Room of the Community Center located at 851 E. William St. A 40-year-old man was arrested Tuesday for suspicion of drug possession and multiple felony counts for having Social Security cards and identification belonging to other people, according to a Carson City Sheriff's Office booking report. Sierra Nevada Realtors this week released its July 2024 report on existing home sales in Carson City and Douglas, Lyon, Storey Churchill and Washoe counties. The report includes the median sales price and number of home sales in the region. SNR obtains its information from the Northern Nevada Regional Multiple Listing Service. Beginning Friday, Mile High Jazz Band Association presents Carson City’s 21st annual Jazz & Beyond Music Festival, with 11 days of free entertainment featuring 30 performances. More than 565 apprehensive but excited freshman from the Class of 2028 joined the ranks of Carson High School Tuesday in an orientation lead by administrators and school leadership teams.  The new students joined the Senator ranks of more than 585 sophomores, 570 juniors and 536 seniors. Concert & Cornhole for a Cause 2024 is The Porch Movement’s second annual fundraiser happening Sept. 21, 2024. The Carson Valley Health Foundation is pleased to announce the receipt of a $4,500 grant from the James and Karen Sacherman Fund at the Community Foundation of Northern Nevada. This generous grant has enabled the purchase of a Soapy Mobile Hand Hygiene Station, significantly enhancing health and safety measures for healthcare workers at Carson Valley Health. Douglas County Clerk-Treasurer Amy Burgans is pleased to announce the successful rollout of the 2024 National Voter Registration Act (NVRA) initiative, a critical project aimed at maintaining accurate and up-to-date voter rolls in Douglas County. This process, which began with the distribution of 3,434 Confirmation Cards, ensures that voter information is current and accurate as we approach the upcoming election. Carson City School District Board of Trustees will meet Tuesday to discuss policy matters regarding teacher supplies and materials, textbook adoption, parental leave and employees who nurse their infants. Coming up! Carson City's 3rd Annual Source Water Assessment Day will be held on Saturday, September 14th from 9:00am-11:00am at the Kings Canyon Trailhead. Most content submitted to Carson Now is covered under Creative Commons license:  Please see Copyright Policy for more information. Contact us for more information. Terms of Use and Privacy Policy NowTown Network sites:
Carson City News - Carson Now
South Lake Tahoe News - South Tahoe Now
