That's just $180 for a full year of service 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The prepaid carrier Visible Wireless is kicking off the new year with one of its best deals ever, offering a whopping year of service for just $15 per month. This Visible deal is available to all new customers who bring a device over to the service - simply use the code 15OFF12 at checkout to activate the deal. Other Visible promo codes are also available. This New Year's discount essentially knocks 50% off the usual price for the basic Visible Unlimited plan, which usually equates to $30 per month. Overall, you're paying just $180 over the span of a year instead of $360 - which is an absolutely stellar price for one of the best prepaid plans on the market. Operating on the wider Verizon network, we'd definitely recommend either of the current Visible Wireless plans if you're looking to save some cash while retaining that juicy unlimited data. In particular, the basic Visible Wireless plan - which is essentially what you get if you use the above code - is a great choice. It doesn't get any 'prioritized' data like the Plus tier, but it's amazing bang for the buck and comes without any of those pesky contracts associated with the big carriers. Visible Wireless: get one year for $15 per month
Use the code 15OFF12 at checkout when you bring your device to Visible to get a whopping year of data for just $15 per month. That's just $180 (usually $360) in total for unlimited data, texts, and calling - an absolute bargain, even when compared to the cheapest of prepaid plans on the market. At just $15 per month for a whole year, this is the standout cheap cell phone plan on the market right now, in our opinion. Even if you're not looking for unlimited data, it's not a bad idea to check this one out - especially since it's extremely easy to switch service these days. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Alex is TechRadar's deals editor, specializing in getting our readers the bang bang for the buck on the tech that we know and love. He's a dab hand at covering retailer events like Black Friday and Amazon Prime Day having over seven years of e-commerce experience at Future PLC; including bylines at our sister sites T3 and GamesRadar. Alex's expertise touches on most areas of TechRadar but he has a particular love for phones, laptops, and cameras, being an avid photographer. Outside of work, you'll find him indulging his love for street and travel photography, at home working on music, or down at the local climbing gym. Straight Talk's new plan gets you unlimited data for just $25 per month Incredible value: get three months at Mint Mobile for $45 plus a second line free The Asus ROG Ally just dropped to a record-low price at Best Buy TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 