TL;DR: As of April 6, get a lifetime subscription to this AI Résumé Builder for just $39 — a 97% discount. You may be the most qualified candidate for a job with a résumé that proves it, but that might not guarantee you’ll get the job. It may not even get you an interview if the company is using an Applicant Tracking System (ATS) to scan incoming résumés.  If you want to create an ATS-friendly résumé that still shows off your talents, you could learn all the quirks of the software, or you could use a résumé builder that already knows how it’s done. AI Résumé Builder gives you intuitive controls to create application materials that may stand out to ATS software, and you can get a lifetime subscription for the best price online, just $39 (reg. $1,560).  AI Résumé Builder is an intuitive tool to get the attention of ATS software, and it’s also just a useful tool for putting together a résumé. The drag-and-drop layouts let you rearrange blocks of your résumé in seconds instead of manually copying, pasting, and re-formatting.  Fine-tune with controls for color editing and spacing, and you can even add your social media links for LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter, Portfolio, Behance, and more. Don’t miss a misplaced comma. AI Résumé Builder supports Grammarly integration so you can check your work before submitting it.  Take advantage of an advanced AI that might just save you time during the whole application process. This résumé builder has a built-in AI engine that auto-completes data for you and fills in what it already knows.  This offer is only available to new users. Once activated, you can access your AI Résumé Builder on up to 999 devices. The Basic plan lets you create up to 10 résumés a month with 50 monthly downloads. You also get tips that could help you refine your CV. Make sure modern application scanners aren’t working against you. For a limited time, get a lifetime subscription to the AI Résumé Builder on sale for $39 (reg. $1,560), the best price online. Prices subject to change.  
Topics
Artificial Intelligence
Careers
