Send yourself an email so you can come back to book this property. 
                                        The Enter your email address field is required.
                                    
                                        The "Enter your email address field must contain a valid email address."
                                    
                         
                     For help making a booking call our dedicated Reservations team on: +44 (0) 203 701 5387 +44 (0) 203 701 5387 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Fabulous brand new villa with 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, one en suite, spacious living / dining room, open kitchen and very well equipped.  Comes with Satellite TV and Fibre WiFi The space of the garden has an impressive large area with its own Private Pool, Beautiful Grassed outside to enjoy the sunshine and alfresco Dining with the BBQ There is a roof top Solarium you can enjoy where you can see the sea and a large communal pool. It is located in the urbanisation of La Zenia, very close to the famous shopping centre La Zenia Boulevard and a walk of 800 meters to the beautiful La Zenia Beach and the many gorgeous Beaches and walks along the coast  
                    Show all amenities
                    
                    Show fewer amenities
                     Enter your travel dates, we'll provide the best price for you
                        Psst! Rentals are first come, first serve. Book now to increase your chances of staying here. 
                                        Psst, get 10% off experiences on Viator when you book on HolidayLettings
                                     
                                        Finish booking to see your promo code
                                     
                Area
             Full refund 100% refund within 24 hours after booking (provided the stay is at least 60 days away). Partial refund 50% refund of the amount paid (minus the booking fee*) if cancelled at least 4 weeks before check-in. No refund No refund if cancelled less than 4 weeks before check-in. 
                                            This rental can only be paid for online through Holiday Lettings using your credit/debit card or PayPal (never by bank or wire transfer). 
                                                                Damage deposit: ($275.69) €250.00
                                     
        No smoking at this property
     These are the details provided by the business owner. Business Name  Business Address  Business Telephone  Business Email  Other Applicable Information   Beautiful villa , lovely outside space.
Near to lovely bars & restaurant's and shops. Would definitely go back there again. Reviewed 15 Jul 2024 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on all reviews.  Myself and family had a wonderful stay at this villa had everything we need very clean and location was great would definitely  stay here again thank Richard  Reviewed 27 Jun 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on all reviews. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not TripAdvisor LLC.  
                Perfectly located for Zenia Boulevard, the beach, cafes and restaurants, this is a really lovely villa. All mod cons, stylishly decorated and finished. We wouldn't hesitate in going back.
Even th…
                More  Reviewed 21 Jun 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on all reviews. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not TripAdvisor LLC.  
                Spent Christmas at this detached accommodation. Very modern, well equipped and very clean. Latest TV has all the UK 'Freeview' channels. Good beds, plenty of good clean linen and towels etc.…
                More  Reviewed 7 Jan 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on all reviews. This response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not TripAdvisor LLC. 
                FAQs
              You can get in touch with the property manager through the contact form on this page.   If you’ve already booked, go to Manage your holiday booking to send the owner a message.   Send the property manager an email through the contact form on this page. Alternatively, if there’s a phone number on this page, you can call them.   Send an email through the contact form on this page. Or if there’s a phone number on this page, you can call them.   If you’ve already booked, go to Manage your holiday booking to view the property manager's contact details or send them a message.   Use the Book your stay form to pay provisionally online and send the property manager a booking request. You’ll find out within 24 hours whether they’ve accepted - no money will leave your account before then   Or send the property manager an enquiry through the Contact the owner/manager form if you’d like a quote or more info first.   When you pay online through the Book your stay form, a booking request is sent to the property manager. You’ll find out within 24 hours whether they’ve accepted - no money will leave your account before then.   Only bookings paid for through our site are covered by our trusted Payment Protection.   To book this holiday home you need to pay through the Holiday Lettings website. Only bookings paid for through our site are covered by our trusted Payment Protection. This means that in the unlikely event that you’re prevented or denied access to your holiday home when you check in, we’ll offer a full refund for the stay.   Find out more about booking safely.
                              Simply enter your holiday dates in the Book your stay form to calculate the cost of your stay. Click Book now to see a full breakdown of the price.   You can also request a quote from the property manager through the contact form. The owner will email you the total cost for your dates and a link to book and pay online.   You’ll receive an email within 24 hours to let you know. Or you can check in Manage your holiday booking. No money will leave your account unless it’s accepted.   Use the Book your stay form to pay provisionally online. You can pay by credit/debit card or PayPal. the property manager will have 24 hours to accept the booking and no money will leave your account before then.   If you’ve been sent a quote, simply accept it and pay online through the email we sent you. You can also do this in Manage your holiday booking.   Only bookings paid for through our site are covered by our trusted Payment Protection.  You can exchange contact details with the property owner/manager once your booking is confirmed and you’ve paid in full. Paying and communicating only through our platform allows us to ensure that your booking is covered by our Payment Protection policy. If you have any questions before booking, you can send the property owner/manager a message via the contact form on their listing. Once you’ve booked, you can discuss the rental and make arrangements for your trip by logging into Manage my booking.  In most cases, you don’t pay a damage deposit up front. Instead, we save your payment details securely and you’re only charged in the event of damage to the property.  Occasionally, you will pay a damage deposit up front as part of the total rental cost. In this case, the owner has 10 days after you check out to report any damage. If they don’t, we’ll return your deposit. If their claim is successful, we’ll deduct the agreed cost and return the remainder.   Go to Manage your holiday booking to view all your booking details, pay the balance of your holiday or cancel it if you need to.   You can pay the remaining balance of your holiday at any point. Simply go to Manage my holiday booking and click Pay now.   We’ll automatically charge the balance payment to the same payment method 10 days before it’s due. Go to Manage my holiday booking to see when the payment will be taken.   You’ll need to contact the property manager to do this. Send them a message in Manage your holiday booking or through the contact form on this page.   Go to Manage your holiday booking to cancel your booking. Here you can view your cancellation policy to see if you’ll be refunded.   You can request to change the dates or number of people on your booking via the Manage your holiday booking page. To change your holiday dates use the Edit booking button. If you need to change the number of guests staying then send the property manager a message.   If the property manager agrees, they’ll send you a revised quote outlining the changes. You can review and accept/decline this from the Manage your holiday booking page. You’ll have 48 hours to take action before the revised quote expires.  
                    View all FAQs
                 1086900 properties 70215 properties 3508 properties 2,753 properties 335 properties 328 properties 269 properties 250 properties 232 properties 230 properties 180 properties 143 properties 141 properties 139 properties 92 properties 90 properties 72 properties 67 properties 55 properties 52 properties 52 properties 50 properties 40 properties Start a new search This advert is created and maintained by the advertiser; we can only publish adverts in good faith as we don't own, manage or inspect any of the properties. We advise you to familiarise yourself with our terms of use. 
                    Still have questions?
                 
                Build your perfect trip, with Holiday Lettings & Tripadvisor
              Book with confidence   Pay online to be covered by Payment Protection  Real opinions, real reviews   Genuine guest feedback from 100,000+ reviews   Safe, simple, secure   When you pay online with PayPal or by credit/debit card   Quick response times   Know where you're staying within 24 hours  Enter dates for more accurate prices
                                Psst! Rentals are first come, first serve. Book now to increase your chances of staying here. The 'Email' and 'Confirm email address' fields do not match. 
                                                            By sending this email you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy.
                                                     You can only shortlist up to 10 properties. Please remove some before saving more.