Get local news delivered to your inbox! Bills offensive coordinator Ken Dorsey walks the field before Buffalo put on a show against the Dolphins. The Buffalo Bills ran 56 offensive plays in their 48-20 hammering of the Miami Dolphins on Sunday. They scored on eight of their first nine non-kneel down possessions, didn’t turn it over, saw quarterback Josh Allen post a perfect 158.3 passer rating and were in total start-to-finish command. Behold the audition tape for Bills offensive coordinator Ken Dorsey to present to head coach-needy teams in February. The Buffalo Bills’ quarterback continued to dominate his team’s biggest rival, with another immaculate showing Sunday. Allen went 21 for 25 for 320 yards and four touchdowns – a perfect passer rating of 158.3 for the first time in his career – in leading the Bills to a 48-20 win. The Buffalo Bills’ quarterback continued to dominate his team’s biggest rival, with another immaculate showing Sunday. Allen went 21 for 25 for 320 yards and four touchdowns – a perfect passer rating of 158.3 for the first time in his career – in leading the Bills to a 48-20 win. Running backs lined up in the slot. Receivers lined up in the backfield. Tight ends lined up everywhere but the offensive line. Against the NFL’s premier defensive coordinator (Miami’s Vic Fangio), Dorsey and his staff had a brilliant game plan to use motion and different formations to create advantageous matchups. Bills coach Sean McDermott talks about the crowd noise during the Bills 48-20 win over the Miami Dolphins. Take note, owners who have teams that stink and will be in position for one of the top college quarterbacks. Over the course of 3 hours, 9 minutes, Dorsey stated his first major case of the season. “Phenomenal job,” coach Sean McDermott said. “Like I told the team, the defense was reeling early – we couldn’t stop (Miami) early. Our offense was rolling. They were top-shelf.” The definition of “rolling” and “top-shelf” … The Bills had a season-best seven “explosive” pass plays (gain of at least 16 yards). … Their first-half touchdown drives were 75, 80, 79 and 59 yards. … Allen had only four incompletions in 25 attempts. … By early in the second quarter, Allen had completed passes to six teammates. … Receiver Stefon Diggs tied a career-high with three touchdown catches. … The offense was 5 of 6 in the red zone. “You see it?” fullback Reggie Gilliam half-asked, half-marveled. Yes, I did. The raucous home crowd did. The CBS audience did. Up in the Dolphins’ coach’s box, Fangio did. Future opponents did. Since their Week 1 hiccup, the Bills have won by 28, 34 and 28 points. Since their Week 1 giveaway-fest (four), the Bills have one giveaway in three games. Since their Week 1 ineffective run-game showing (97 yards), the Bills have rushed for 183, 168 and 104 yards. Top plays, standout players and key statistics from the Bills' win over Miami on Sunday. Top plays, standout players and key statistics from the Bills' win over Miami on Sunday. Credit everybody, of course. A play-caller is only as good as his quarterback and the other 10 men in the huddle. But the way Dorsey is utilizing his myriad skill-position options has the Bills, to use McDermott’s word, rolling into October.   Don’t look now, but the Bills should be 6-1 heading into next month’s prime-time game at Cincinnati and maybe 8-1 when they play at Philadelphia and Kansas City sandwiching their open weekend. The Bills’ first touchdown was that good. Receiver Gabe Davis lined up in the right slot. At the snap, receiver Trent Sherfield (wide right) ran a straight-ahead route to get the attention of cornerback Xavien Howard and safety Brandon Jones. Receiver Deonte Harty’s motion took him to the right flat and when Allen faked a throw to him, cornerback Justin Bethel was toast. Davis ran a wheel route for the 18-yard score. The Bills were off and scoring. “That’s tough (to defend) because they have to respect the screen (to Harty) and Josh did a really good job of faking that,” Davis said. “That just sold it enough so I could slip right by him. (Dorsey) always has a good plan. We just have to execute it.” The Bills’ second-drive third-down conversion was that good. Sherfield lined up in the backfield, moving tailback Latavius Murray to the left slot. Sherfield vs. a linebacker was easy pickings – nine yards on third-and-2. Seven plays later, it was 14-7, Bills. “That’s all ‘Dorse,’ ” Sherfield said. “The coaches and him do a great job of putting us in situations. It’s fun to be around an offensive mind like ‘Dorse.’ ” They were only two plays, but illustrate the variety of Dorsey’s playbook and confidence he has in Allen orchestrating the script. “(Dorsey) is calling great plays and he’s putting guys in position early in the week to build confidence in a play,” center Mitch Morse said. Only four weeks into the season, a working list of teams that will, might or should need a new coach to pair with a young quarterback is already deep. Chicago can’t hold onto a 28-point lead against a Broncos team that gave up 70 last week. See ya, Matt Eberflus. Washington’s 2-0 start has predictably been evened out with consecutive losses and the new ownership group could want their own coach. Later, Ron Rivera. Atlanta and Las Vegas would be good opportunities to match a young head coach with a rookie quarterback. Thanks for your service, Arthur Smith and Josh McDaniels, respectively. Throw in New Orleans (Dennis Allen) or Tampa Bay (Todd Bowles) and Dorsey should have plenty of suitors along with Detroit offensive coordinator Ben Johnson because owners follow the pack and they see Houston (2-2) with new coach DeMeco Ryans (albeit with a defensive background) and quarterback C.J. Stroud and Indianapolis (2-2) with new coach Shane Steichen (who calls the offensive plays) and quarterback Anthony Richardson. If the Bills continue steamrolling their way through the AFC, Dorsey will get the attention that Brian Daboll did two years ago and he ended up as the New York Giants’ big whistle. But that is months away. Next up is Jacksonville in London. Bounding out of the Bills’ locker room, I caught Dorsey’s attention and asked, “Back to the office?” per his custom to watch the video while waiting out the traffic. Dorsey smiled and said, “Back to the office.” The grind continues … and so does his resume building. Get local news delivered to your inbox! Sports Reporter   Three questions on our mind after Sunday’s 48-20 victory over Miami. Damar Hamlin made his season debut in Sunday’s 48-20 victory over the Miami Dolphins. It was his first time playing in a regular-season game s… Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen didn’t just beat the Miami Dolphins on the field Sunday. He was the clear winner in trolling, too. CBS play-by-play announcer Jim Nantz and analyst Tony Romo passed out the glory to just about everybody on the Buffalo Bills after their 48-20… Defensive tackle DaQuan Jones finished with two tackles, one sack and two quarterback hits in playing 36 defensive snaps, which was 55% of the… Buffalo Bills coach Sean McDermott said it was so loud Sunday at Highmark Stadium that about 40% of the defensive calls that were sent into mi… The Bills announced it was an ankle injury for White, who was carted off to be evaluated. He was later officially ruled out with an Achilles injury.  Diggs hugged fans in the front row and then smashed together two beer cans with the spray going everywhere and then Diggs throwing the cans in… Buffalo Bills head coach Sean McDermott talks about how Allen and Diggs played like the star players they are.     Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.