Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Thursday December 01, 2022 , 4 min Read Hello,  This is agritech’s time to shine.   Despite the pandemic, economic slowdown, and impact of climate change, agri-foodtech startups have had an increasing number of VCs betting on the sector's tenacity and immense scope for growth.   Per a report by AgFunder and Omnivore, India overtook China as APAC’s biggest funder of agri-foodtech innovation in FY22. Overall investment volume in the sector increased by 119% to a record $4.6 billion in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022.   In other news, ﻿Paytm﻿ chief Vijay Shekhar Sharma is willing to pay Twitter $80/month if Chief Twit Elon Musk can help the company block fake accounts that are impersonating Paytm’s handles. Ironic considering the first Twitter Blue rollout led to a spike in ‘verified’ fake accounts… which, in turn, led Musk to pause the service.  Lastly, here’s a look at every country’s favourite toy this year. Is anyone really surprised to see Ludo as the “most searched-for board game globally”?   In today’s newsletter, we will talk about    Zetwerk, which connects manufacturing partners and suppliers, has announced its fourth acquisition with Lexington, US-based Unimacts. The cash-and-equity deal values Unimacts at $39 million, said Amrit Acharya, Co-founder and CEO of Zetwerk.   New horizons:  Amrit Acharya, Zetwerk   Startup: Prismforce  Amount: $13.6M Round: Series A  Startup: Flash  Amount: $5.8M Round: Seed  Startup: Vetic  Amount: $3.7M Round: Seed  Food-delivery platform ﻿Swiggy﻿ has shut its cloud kitchen brand The Bowl Company in Delhi-NCR as the service did not perform as expected in the region.  Empty bowl:     Agritech startup ﻿DeHaat﻿ has raised $60 million in a Series E funding round led by Sofina Ventures and Temasek. This is the startup's third fundraise. It aims to add over one million farmers to its platform and expand to new geographies across the globe.   Connecting India:      Which movie was the first to reach the billion-dollar mark at the box office?  Answer: Titanic, with an initial worldwide box office gross of over $1.84 billion.   We would love to hear from you! To let us know what you liked and disliked about our newsletter, please mail [email protected].   If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, sign up here. For past editions of the YourStory Buzz, you can check our Daily Capsule page here.  1 2 [Weekly funding roundup Aug 10-16] VC inflow nearly triples 3 Radhika Ghai's beauty startup kindlife.in raises $8M in Series A funding 4 Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! 5 [Startup Bharat] This Ahmedabad-based fintech platform disburses 1,500 payday loans every month The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.