Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Sunday October 29, 2023 , 2 min Read Contract manufacturing company ﻿Zetwerk﻿ reported an 82% increase in losses for FY23 at Rs 108.7 crore from Rs 59.76 crore in the previous fiscal year on a consolidated basis. The Bengaluru-based company’s revenue from operations grew by nearly 130% to Rs 11,448.6 crore during the year, with the overall income growing by a similar metric to Rs 11,595.6 crore for the year.   Zetwerk’s expenses rose by 130% as well to Rs 11,712.62 crore on the back of rising employee expenses, finance costs, and other expenses.   The numbers reflect the consolidated figure for 19 entities, including two jointly controlled entities and 17 subsidiaries.   Apart from its India entity, Zetwerk also has regional operations across Singapore, the US, and the Middle East. The company has also made four acquisitions in 2022.  It has reportedly raised $120 million in a Series F round of funding led by Avenir Growth Capital and returning investors Lightspeed, Green Oaks Capital, and Steadview Capital.  The company was last valued at $2.7 billion in September 2022, according to data and research platform Tracxn, and raised the latest round at a flat valuation. Overall, it has raised $764 million to date.   Zetwerk, founded in 2018 by Amrit Acharya, Srinath Ramakkrsuhnan, Vishal Chaudhary and Rahul Sharma, offers a managed marketplace to industrial and consumer enterprises for contract manufacturing. It operates across diverse industries including oil and gas, renewables, aerospace, infrastructure, apparel, electronics and retail, as well as solar and renewable energy. According to recent reports, the company is also looking to invest Rs 1,000 crore to deploy in consumer electronics space including electric vehicles and IT hardware.  Edited by Kanishk Singh 1 2 Byju Raveendran claims July salaries will be paid despite insolvency concerns 3 Ronnie Screwvala says Swades Foundation’s Rs 10-Cr fundraise from Social Stock Exchange gives ‘a different high’ 4 Building a Great Brand: Lessons from Steve Jobs "Think Different" Campaign
 5 Startup news and update: daily roundup (August 20, 2024)