 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 
Fundrise is the best overall real estate crowdfunding platform with access to alternative investments in real estate due to its high level of transparency, low costs, excellent account services, and availability to both accredited and non-accredited investors. We researched 19 real estate crowdfunding platforms and evaluated them on 38 criteria, including fees, usability, account services, investment selection, and additional features.
 
Real estate crowdfunding allows investors to finance real estate projects through online platforms with the goal of profiting either from capital appreciation or passive income. While growing in popularity as a form of alternative investing, real estate crowdfunding can come with high barriers to entry, such as meeting minimum funding requirements and accreditation status.
 
An accredited investor is an individual or corporate entity that must have at least $200,000 annual income ($300,000 coupled with a spouse or partner) for the past two years, with the reasonable belief that the investor can sustain that income level for the rest of the year. Accreditation requirements are also met by having a net worth of at least $1 million, excluding the value of a primary residence. Fortunately, not all real estate crowdfunding platforms require accreditation, and in our review, we will cover the best platforms operating in the industry.
 
Best Overall
 
Fundrise delivers online access to many real estate debt and equity investments with a small initial investment. Those who stand behind Fundrise can also become owners through the initial public offering (IPO). Unlike competitors with long required capital lock-up periods, Fundrise provides quarterly redemption windows.    
 
Best for Beginners
 
Beginning investors seeking crowdfunded opportunities in real estate will appreciate the low $10 minimum for brokerage accounts and $1,000 for individual retirement accounts (IRAs). 
 
Best for Low Fees
 
Fundrise’s fees are transparent and reasonable when compared with competitor platforms. 
 Low $10 investment minimum Broad diversification among investment plans Transparent platform Quarterly redemption opportunities Early liquidation is subject to penalties Quarterly liquidity is not guaranteed Complex investments require investor due diligence Phone-based customer service requires email request for a call back 
At Fundrise, beginning investors can invest in alternative assets for just $10, a rare low investment minimum. The platform structure presents vast diversification for small investment amounts. The quarterly investment option adds to Fundrise’s consideration for best real estate investment platform. The expansive portfolio of underlying investments is both positive and negative. There’s great diversification of assets and complex information regarding the underlying holdings.  
 
Fundrise investors choose an investment plan from four options: Supplemental Income, Balanced Investing, Long-Term Growth, and Venture Capital. Each plan has a goal, from income through startup or venture capital investing. The assets within the plan are allocated among income and growth-focused real estate and debt assets. The venture capital plan offers a path to invest in startup companies. Within each plan, there are scores of investments from across the U.S. The debt investments finance commercial real estate projects, or startup companies (in the venture capital plan). 
 
Those seeking greater control over their investments can sign up for Fundrise Pro for a reasonable fee of $10 a month. This plan provides greater customization, suitable for more experienced investors. 
 
Founded in 2010, Fundrise is headquartered in Washington, DC, and serves more than 385,000 investors.
 
Read the full 2024 Fundrise Review.
 
Best for Accredited Investors
 
EquityMultiple incorporates a diverse range of real estate investments, from short-term to income and capital appreciation, including a range of projected rates of returns. While minimum investment requirements typically range from $10,000 to $30,000, many of the offers have minimums near the low end of this range. Investors will find opportunities with a minimum investment of $5,000, enabling them to diversify their holdings within the platform. 
 
Best for Transparency
 
The real estate project offers are clearly explained with all relevant details easily accessible from a one-page description, including an analysis of tax and individual investment features. Links to additional documentation are easily accessible at the bottom of the comprehensive information page. 
 Wide variety of investment offers Comprehensive offer details Easy access to assistance via chatbot, email, phone, and FAQ Range of minimum investment amounts and diverse lock-up terms Target rates of return are estimates and not guaranteed Investments are not FDIC insured Not available to non-accredited investors 
EquityMultiple is a commercial real estate and technology firm that delivers various private real estate investments to accredited investors. The company accepts only 5% of the projects reviewed on the platform and has distributed $425 million to date.
 
EquityMultiple’s investment offers are arranged into categories: Keep, Grow, and Earn, encompassing both debt and equity positions. The Keep investments have the shortest terms and might be compared with cash equivalent and short-term debt offers. The Grow investments focus on long-term growth with capital appreciation. Earn investments yield higher, with 10% or greater projected returns at present. 
 
Investors can access the investment type, target return, and investment minimum before investing. Lock-up periods vary, as do other features. The transparent offer description screen explains the investment goal, target return range, redemption opportunities, security type, tax implications, and minimum investment amount. The full-page copy delves into the details of the offer and how it might fit into your investment portfolio.
 
Founded in 2015, EquityMultiple is headquartered in New York, New York, and serves approximately 48,000 registered investors.
 
Read the full 2024 EquityMultiple Review.
 Yieldstreet 
Yieldstreet provides all investors with access to a range of alternative investments, including debt and equity positions in real estate, legal cases, art, and more. Offers include diversified alternative investment funds and individual projects. 
 Range of diversified alternative investment offers Highly vetted investment managers Reasonable fee structure, starting at 0.00% for notes Multiple account types available Not available in Nebraska or North Dakota Onboarding requires proof of accreditation status Number and types of investments varies  
If you’re seeking a supermarket of alternative investments, then Yieldstreet might be for you. Founded in 2015, YieldStreet partners with global alternative investment managers. The company claims over 450,000 members, who have invested $3.9 billion and earned an average 9.6% annualized return since 2015. The current and prior offerings span private credit, structured notes, real estate, art, legal finance, and transportation investments. 
 
The platform is open to both accredited and non-accredited investors with a $10,000 minimum investment requirement. However, some offers demand higher initial minimums. Non-accredited investors can invest in the Yieldstreet Alternative Income Fund (formerly known as the Yieldstreet Prism Fund). However, the $10,000 minimum might be a barrier for non-accredited investors. Accredited investors can access the full scope of the platform’s offers. 
 
The number of available investments will vary, but the Yieldstreet Alternative Income Fund is expected to be open to new investors continuously. Features such as highly vetted investments, live customer service, comprehensive educational content, and targeted private market recommendations justify the Best for Alternative Investment Selection award.
 
Founded in 2015, Yieldstreet is headquartered in New York, New York. According to Yieldstreet, they serve over 450,000 members.
 
Read the full 2024 Yieldstreet Review.
 Crowdstreet 
Sophisticated commercial real estate investors can invest in debt and equity deals provided by experienced property professionals. Expert real estate investors receive detailed commercial real estate investment documentation. 
 Direct access to real estate project sponsors Thorough project screening, which includes assessment of many factors, including economic environment End-to-end commercial real estate investment platform with a range of experienced managers Low inventory of commercial projects at present—which might be considered a positive sign of strict screening and oversight CrowdStreet REIT I (C-REIT) closed to new investors as of Dec. 21, 2023 High investment minimum 
CrowdStreet partners with real estate companies to co-run and market a range of crowdfunded real estate deals. CrowdStreet’s guiding investment tenets include principal protection, lending opportunities to capture high current market interest rates, conservative property valuations, and underpriced commercial real estate opportunities. Sophisticated real estate investors can unpack the offers through project videos and detailed documentation. 
 
CrowdStreet vets potential real estate projects, and only those that pass the strict screening process are included on the platform. As of April 15, 2024, investors have invested over $4.3 billion in over 790 projects.
 
According to a company representative, CrowdStreet is exercising extreme selectivity in this economic environment, which has led to fewer current available offers on the platform. Currently, only two opportunities are available for investors to choose for their portfolio. The company contact noted that a robust pipeline of investment opportunities is anticipated in 2024.
 Like the stock market, the world of real estate is dynamic. For this reason, real estate crowdfunding platforms often adjust the number of investments they make available to investors in response to changes in demand, economic factors, or market trends. The decision to scale up or down their project offerings usually comes after a deep analysis of key industry factors, such as project costs, operating expenses, cap rates, movement in interest rates, and overall industry demand. 
Founded in 2013, CrowdStreet is headquartered in Austin, Texas, and serves over 300,000 customers.
 
Read the full 2024 CrowdStreet Review.
 In late July 2023, Tore Steen stepped down as CEO of CrowdStreet after $63 million went missing from deals involving a real-estate developer called Nightingale Properties, which raised money to buy office buildings in Atlanta and Miami. The Department of Justice is investigating Nightingale Properties after the company allegedly diverted nearly $40M of equity raised on CrowdStreet into accounts controlled by its CEO, Elie Schwartz. CrowdStreet has since tightened financial controls and replaced former Tore Steen with an Interim CEO, Jack Chandler. 
RealtyMogul is accessible for both non-accredited and accredited investors and offers REIT funds and individual commercial real estate investments. The current five individual projects and two REIT funds provide investors with access to a diverse range of commercial real estate investments.
 Diversified investment portfolios of REIT funds available to non-accredited investors  Diverse selection of individual projects Projected high rates of return Might be difficult to invest through an IRA Website is opaque and difficult to navigate Fees are relatively high 
RealtyMogul is a clearing house for commercial real estate investments offered by multiple real estate companies. The RealtyMogul website currently displays seven offers, with details for each project available after creating a login and password. The number of individual project offers will vary, while the REITs are always accessible. Accredited investors can invest in private placement offerings while both accredited and non-accredited investors can access two RealtyMogul real estate investment trusts (REITs). 
 
All project and REIT information is available online, although users need to dig down through several pages to get to the meat of each offer. The description pages of the individual offers are dense, which is suitable for those seeking the particulars of the project. Investors should take note of the lock-up period for REIT investments. The REITs are eligible for share repurchase after 12 months, the investor will only receive the full redemption value if the fund is held for a minimum of three years.
 
Founded in 2012, RealtyMogul is headquartered in Los Angeles, California, and serves over 280,000 members.
 
Read the full 2024 RealtyMogul Review.
 Arrived Homes 
Arrived offers small investors access to the rental home and vacation home markets through a fractional share ownership model. Members can invest in single properties with as little as $100 or select the Single Family Residential Fund, which includes many homes. 
 Quarterly liquidation available for Single Family Fund (SFR) LLC structure gives investors true proportional real estate investment ownership Quarterly redemptions after a six-month holding period and full liquidation after a five-year holding period Fees are difficult to estimate Short track record Cash flow projected returns are lower than current cash equivalents such as CDs or high-yield money market funds  
Investors in Arrived Homes purchase fractional shares of rental residential homes, vacation real estate, or funds that include multiple homes. Investors have direct ownership in a percentage of the LLC which owns the property. Investors profit with regular cash flow derived from rental payments, less expenses. Upon sale, the home might also deliver capital appreciation. 
 
The number of available homes on the platform varies. Currently, there are single-family homes, vacation rentals, and fund options for investment property. Management responsibilities are outsourced, making this a true passive real estate investment. However, given that the company was founded recently, in 2019, investors may want to consider the short track record of this real estate company before investing.  
 
Founded in 2019, Arrived is headquartered in Seattle, Washington, and serves over 467,000 investors.
 
Read the full 2024 Arrived Review.
 DLP Capital 
DLP Capital offers professional investors a diverse range of opportunities through its five funds, which include diversified holdings within real estate preferred equity, real estate equity, preferred real estate credit, a senior secured mortgage pool, and a real estate credit fund.
 Clear fund disclosure Easy access to basic real estate debt and equity overviews Legacy planning and additional services for high-net-worth clientele Annual redemption opportunity for several funds High minimum of $200,000 Difficult to find details about individual fund holdings After the target return is achieved, a performance split is levied  
DLP is a private financial services and real estate investment company that serves an affluent clientele and real estate managers with real estate debt and equity funds, access to capital, real estate firm consulting, and legacy planning. DPL has 3,000 plus current investors and owns more than 18,000 housing units with over $5.25 billion in assets under management. With 18 years in operation, DPL has been around for a while to prove itself. 
 
The real estate investment options include five real estate debt and equity funds. The Building Communities and DLP Housing (REIT) Funds include equity ownership in the development and construction of various types of rental communities and single- and multi-family homes. The three debt funds provide investors with various types of real estate fixed-income investing. The company targets impact-based investment strategies to combine profit and societal greater good projects. While the $200,000 minimum investment is steep, investors who can afford it will like the transparency surrounding the 2.0% management fee.
 
Founded in 2006, DLP Capital is headquartered in St. Augustine, Florida, and serves approximately 2,600 investors.
 
Read the full 2024 DLP Capital Review.
 
Fundrise offers the best all-around blend of good things to look for when choosing a platform to help you invest in crowdfunded real estate investments, like low fees, quick funding timelines, and high customer satisfaction scores. YieldStreet, RealtyMogul, and Arrived Homes all offer real estate crowdfunding investment opportunities for non-accredited investors as well as those with greater assets. Accredited investors will find excellent transparency and reasonable fees at EquityMultiple, while wealthy investors have an elite range of investment funds to choose from at DPL Capital.
 
Investors can invest in real estate online in a couple of ways. The most common way is through publicly traded real estate investment trusts (REITs). REITs offer several options that investors can choose from, such as residential, commercial, and industrial real estate. The scope of your investment lies in your risk tolerance and goals; most investors who decide to invest in REITs do so to collect passive income through dividends. To invest in publicly traded REITs, Investors will need to open and fund a brokerage account and pick a REIT that meets their financial goals. 
 
Investors with a higher risk tolerance aiming for more profit potential will want to explore the real estate crowdfunding space. While real estate crowdfunding platforms also offer investors opportunities in residential, industrial, and commercial properties, these investments are often highly illiquid. In addition, investors must first determine their level of accreditation, since this will determine which platforms they qualify to use and which investments they can access. To start investing in real estate using a crowdfunding platform, investors must open an account, link their bank account, and start looking for worthy investments to fund. They will then need to follow their chosen platform's guidelines, as each platform has its process that investors are required to follow.
 
Investopedia analyzed 19 real estate crowdfunding companies and scored each based on eight major categories and 38 criteria that are crucial in evaluating the offerings and usability of these platforms. We used this data to review each company for their fees, investment selection, transparency, and other features to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to ensure our readers make the right decision for their needs. Investopedia launched in 1999 and has been helping readers find the best real estate crowdfunding platforms since 2020.
 Real estate crowdfunding opportunities target investors who want to diversify their publicly traded investment holdings. The commonalities of these private market alternative investments include longer holding periods and less liquidity. In exchange for the added risk of this asset category, promised returns are higher than you might encounter in typical financial market investments. Real estate crowdfunding is a path to invest in private market real estate deals. Crowdfunding platforms raise capital from investors to provide debt or mortgages as well as equity or ownership positions in a variety of commercial real estate. Along with greater risk, these investments frequently offer higher returns than those available in comparable REIT investments. Long-term capital lock-up periods and higher minimum required investment amounts are common characteristics of this alternative investment category.  There are several ways to invest in real estate.  Similar to other online investment portals, you begin by creating an account. Provide demographic and financial information including a Social Security number. Link a bank funding account and transfer money to the crowdfunding website. From among the available offers, either funds or individual investment offers, select which ones you are interested in and follow the prompts for investing.  Some crowdfunding offers are open to all U.S. investors, while others require a specific level of income and/or net worth. First, educate yourself about this asset class. This crowdfunding explainer is a good place to start. Next, read reviews of various crowdfunding websites, understand what the companies invest in, what their investment minimums are, and whether they require accreditation or are available to all investors. After selecting a crowdfunding platform, create an account, link a bank account, and select your investments.  The crowdfunding investment portal must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and be a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). There are SEC rules that apply to real estate crowdfunding and vary based upon whether the investments are for accredited investors or all, and how much capital is raised. Crowdfunding laws include Regulation CF, Regulation D, Rule 506(C), and Rule 504. None of these regulations protect investors against investment losses.  For more information about a crowdfunding company, visit FINRA’s BrokerCheck and the SEC’s EDGAR website. Investors who qualify as accredited investors have over $1 million in net worth (excluding the value of their primary residence), or have earned over $200,000 (individually) or $300,000 (with spouse or partner) in each of the prior two years and reasonably expect the same for the current year. Financial professionals with Series 7, 65, or 82 licenses also qualify. The accredited investor designation is meant to protect retail investors from losses that can come with unregulated investments. Unless owned within an IRA, real estate dividends, interest, and realized capital gains are considered taxable income. The specific real estate crowdfunding platform typically lists the tax treatment of earnings in the Frequently Asked Questions portion of the platform. In general, investors receive a K-1, 1099-DIV, or 1099-INT form for tax reporting. Consult with your tax professional for additional information.  The amount needed to invest in real estate crowdfunding depends on several factors, such as accreditation status and the requirements set by the platform you decide to use. For instance, companies like Fundrise require both accredited and non-accredited investors to make a minimum investment of just $10. Companies like DLP Capital, which only serves accredited investors, require a significantly larger minimum investment of $200,000. Investors will need to conduct their research before deciding on which platform to use and consider important factors such as fees, required minimum investment, projected returns, and lock-up periods on the money they intend to invest. We researched and reviewed several real estate crowdfunding companies to find the best platforms you see listed above. While we write individual reviews for most companies, we do not always write reviews for companies we would not recommend. Below are the companies we researched, along with links to individual company reviews to help you learn more before making a decision: Arrived, DiversyFund, Fundrise, Groundfloor, HappyNest, Lofty.ai, RealtyMogul, Roofstock, Streitwise, Yieldstreet, Acretrader, CityVest, CrowdStreet, DLP Capital, EquityMultiple, First National Realty Partners, Origin Investments, HoneyBricks. 
To evaluate and pick the best real estate crowdfunding platforms, Investopedia’s team of researchers, data collectors, and industry experts spent nearly two months conducting in-depth industry research, company survey data collection, and hands-on evaluations of 19 real estate crowdfunding platforms. We grouped the 38 criteria, including investment selection and minimums, holding periods, and curated portfolios, into eight categories. We then scored these criteria and weighted the categories to determine which real estate crowdfunding platforms are best for both accredited and non-accredited investors:
 
Through this all-encompassing data collection and review process, Investopedia provides you with an unbiased and thorough review of the top real estate crowdfunding companies. For more details, you can read our full review process.
 
Learn more about real estate crowdfunding:
 Investopedia/Julie Bang Fundrise. "What Are Fundrise's Fees?"  Fundrise. "What Is the Minimum Initial Investment?"  Fundrise. "Why Fundrise." Fundrise. "Real Estate."  Fundrise. "Compare Investment Plans."  Fundrise. "Take Control of Your Portfolio." Fundrise. "About Us." EquityMultiple. "FAQs: What Fees Are Associated With My Investment?" Equity Multiple. "Frequently Asked Questions."  EquityMultiple. "FAQ: What is the Minimum Investment Amount For Projects Offered on EquityMultiple." EquityMultple. "An Elevated Path to Building Wealth." EquityMultiple. "About Us."  EquityMultiple. "An Elevated Path to Building Wealth." Yieldstreet. "Investment Offerings."  Yieldstreet. "Yieldstreet."  Yieldstreet. "About Us."  Yieldstreet. "Who Can Invest in Yieldstreet Offerings?"   Yieldstreet. "How It Works."  CrowdStreet. "Fees."  CrowdStreet. "Investment Minimum."  CrowdStreet. "What's the Process?"  CrowdStreet. "Investment Thesis." CrowdStreet. "About." CrowdStreet. "CrowdStreet Announces the Next Phase in Its Evolution." RealtyMogul. "RealtyMogul Apartment Growth REIT." RealtyMogul. "RealtyMogul Income REIT."  RealtyMogul. "Frequently Asked Questions."  RealtyMogul. "Investments." Arrived. "How Does Arrived Make Money." Arrived. "What is the minimum Initial Investment?" Arrived. "What Is Arrived?"  Arrived. "How Arrived Works: FAQ." Arrived. "Invest."  DLP Capital. "Investment Funds Comparison."  DLP Capital. "Solutions."  DLP Capital. "Setting a New Standard for Real Estate Investing."  DLP Capital. "Investment Funds."  DLP Capital. "Impact Series."  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "Investor Alerts and Bulletins." Securities Lawyer 101. "The Securities Laws That Apply to Crowdfunding-Rules and Regulations."