e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Welcome to Week 1 of the high school football season. It is really Week Zero, but one happens to sound better. And since we will be calling the plays from August to November, audibles are prohibited.Friday kicks off the non-league portion of the season. Some coaches approach preseason games as an opportunity to test their teams. Others try to merely survive because their roster depth is not that deep.And then there are those coaches who schedule teams they have no business playing for the sake of building confidence. At least the parents will be happy because their sons will have played – possibly for the only time in the season.***Three of the five teams covered by The Reporter have home games Friday. Dixon has to travel all of 13 miles to Will C. Wood. Vacaville will face Davis at Tom Zunino Stadium, and Vanden will host Cosumnes Oaks at George A. Gammon Athletic Field.Manny Tarango will take his Vacaville Christian team to Redding Christian, which is actually located in Palo Cedro. Ever heard of Palo Cedro? The city has just a few more residents than Vacaville High has students.Taranago agreed to travel because Redding Christian has just three home games this season. It must be a challenge for the Lions to schedule games after playing eight-man football as recently as two years ago.***

Vacaville quarterback Brody Fortunati laughed when asked if he remembers Cardinal Newman’s quarterback wearing No. 54 last season. Fortunati confirmed that he was surprised to see No. 54 taking snaps.Matt Hilden wore that number because he also played on the the defensive line for the Cardinals. Every team has two-way starters, but rarely does a quarterback go both ways and trespass in the trenches.Then again, Hilden is 6-foot-6 and weighs 280 pounds. He will be wearing No. 54 again on Sept. 1 when the Cardinals host the Bulldogs, but he will not be behind center. Hilden has moved to tackle on offense.***Wes Besseghini is changing his pregame routine as Dixon’s head coach. He will not lead his team to the locker room at halftime of the junior varsity game. And the players will have to dress and stretch without him.Besseghini has made it clear to his assistants that he will not miss a single second of a junior varsity game this season. His son, Wes Jr., is a freshman on the junior varsity team.There is no audible for dad duty.  Friday kicks off the non-league portion of the season. Some coaches approach preseason games as an opportunity to test their teams. Others try to merely survive because their roster depth is not that deep. And then there are those coaches who schedule teams they have no business playing for the sake of building confidence. At least the parents will be happy because their sons will have played – possibly for the only time in the season. *** Three of the five teams covered by The Reporter have home games Friday. Dixon has to travel all of 13 miles to Will C. Wood. Vacaville will face Davis at Tom Zunino Stadium, and Vanden will host Cosumnes Oaks at George A. Gammon Athletic Field. Manny Tarango will take his Vacaville Christian team to Redding Christian, which is actually located in Palo Cedro. Ever heard of Palo Cedro? The city has just a few more residents than Vacaville High has students. Taranago agreed to travel because Redding Christian has just three home games this season. It must be a challenge for the Lions to schedule games after playing eight-man football as recently as two years ago. *** Vacaville quarterback Brody Fortunati laughed when asked if he remembers Cardinal Newman’s quarterback wearing No. 54 last season. Fortunati confirmed that he was surprised to see No. 54 taking snaps. Matt Hilden wore that number because he also played on the the defensive line for the Cardinals. Every team has two-way starters, but rarely does a quarterback go both ways and trespass in the trenches. Then again, Hilden is 6-foot-6 and weighs 280 pounds. He will be wearing No. 54 again on Sept. 1 when the Cardinals host the Bulldogs, but he will not be behind center. Hilden has moved to tackle on offense. *** Wes Besseghini is changing his pregame routine as Dixon’s head coach. He will not lead his team to the locker room at halftime of the junior varsity game. And the players will have to dress and stretch without him. Besseghini has made it clear to his assistants that he will not miss a single second of a junior varsity game this season. His son, Wes Jr., is a freshman on the junior varsity team. There is no audible for dad duty.   Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group