UK Edition In theory, it should be one of the biggest games in English rugby: the top two teams from a largely semi-professional second tier meeting for the right to win promotion and join the glittering elite of the game. This weekend, Jersey Reds face Ealing Trailfinders, who are first and second in the RFU Championship with only one point between them, and one match remaining afterwards that both teams are expected to win. It is a winner-takes-all contest that could have been deciding which team is promoted to the Gallagher Premiership for the first time in the sort of high-stakes contest that television would love. In footballing terms, the play-off final to win promotion from the Sky Bet Championship to the Premier League is known as the richest game in English football. The winners can, according to one survey, earn themselves £135 million over three years, rising to £265 million over five seasons, through television deals, sponsorships and other additional income streams. But this is English domestic rugby and the system therefore does not work quite as originally intended. There will be no promotion for the winner of Saturday’s game between Jersey and Ealing because neither club meets the Gallagher Premiership’s minimum standards criteria. There will be no live television coverage, barring a free live stream on the Championship website, and the crowd at the Stade Santander International in Jersey is expected to be a little more than 2,000. And the financial reward? Nothing. Zero. Zilch. These two teams — fully professional, unlike many of their Championship rivals — will be playing purely for pride, as there is no prize fund for winning the second tier of English rugby. Discussions are afoot about how the top end of English club rugby should be restructured, but it is clear for all to see that the Championship has been badly neglected. With funding from the RFU drastically cut to about £160,000 per club, less than a quarter of what they received a few seasons ago, fewer clubs have been able to nurture genuine ambitions of promotion to the Premiership. The one team that did meet the minimum standards criteria — principally to have a stadium with a 5,000 capacity and the scope to increase to 10,000 — was Doncaster Knights, and they are in sixth place in the Championship. Ealing, whose average crowd is below 1,000, had their bid to meet the criteria rejected because their Vallis Way ground cannot be extended to a 10,000 capacity quickly enough. If they win the league, they will consider suing the RFU for restriction of trade. “We believe we can prove that 10,000 is unlawful and we feel we have a very good case,” Ben Ward, the Ealing Trailfinders director of rugby, told The Times in January. There was even talk of a merger with Ospreys and a move to play as a London presence in the United Rugby Championship, but that now seems unlikely to happen. Jersey, by comparison, did not seek to meet the minimum standards, as they know there is no scope for extending their ground as the Premiership requires at present. There have been teams from both the Premiership and international rugby, including England and the British & Irish Lions, who have visited the island and used their facilities for training camps, but for the time being they are resigned to the fact that there will be no promotion. It has been clear for some time that Ealing and Jersey would be the two leading clubs in the Championship this season. In November, Craig Hammond, the head coach of Nottingham, now ninth in the table, said: “Jersey and Ealing really are Premiership quality now, so it would help us all in the Championship if they did go up.” In their 20 games this season, Jersey have lost one and drawn one, while Ealing have lost twice but beat Jersey 43-22 at Vallis Way in December. But uncertainty remains over how the top two tiers will look next year. A ten-team Premiership is widely favoured, with 11 teams in the top tier at present after Worcester Warriors and Wasps went to the wall earlier this season and the potential for one club to be incentivised to move to the Championship. There is uncertainty at the other end of the Championship, too, where the bottom two sides, Richmond and London Scottish, also meet on Saturday with no knowledge of whether one of them will be relegated to National League One. None of which will stop Ealing and Jersey from giving it their all in the title decider this weekend, even if pride rather than promotion is the prime motivating factor. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.