Business Our unmissable weekly email of all the gossip, rumours and covert goings-on inside the Square Mile  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. London fintech Zilch will partner with debt advice charity StepChange to offer support to its customers, in a first for a buy-now-pay-later provider. Zilch said it would be the first business of its kind to implement the StepChange Direct advice service directly into its platform. Zilch CEO and co-founder Philip Belamant said the partnership was a natural step for his business. “The entire ethos of Zilch is about being customer-first and we’ve built the business around doing the right thing by our customers - even if it’s difficult - every time,” he said. “It’s why we’ve invested so much time and resource into building a meaningfully proactive relationship with StepChange. “To Zilch, this partnership is a natural and obvious one - why would any responsible lender of credit not want to align with an establishment such as StepChange that is doing so much to support people in these hard times?” Besides integrating StepChange support, Zilch will also make financial contributions to the charity. It will do this via FairShare: a voluntary agreement among companies providing debt management services to pay back a percentage of their debt repayment income towards support charities. StepChange CEO Phil Andrew said the support of Zilch will help the charity continue its mission. “StepChange has been helping people for 30 years – and during that time has supported millions of people seeking help with problem debt,” he said.“Over the last three decades a lot has changed – with new challenges like the cost-of-living crisis and new financial products. “But one thing has not changed and that is our commitment to support people struggling with problem debt and to work with a wide network of partners and supporters to ensure that those who need help can access it. “Zilch’s commitment to our work through the payment of Fair Share contributions, as well as finding innovative ways to minimise the barriers to people seeking help, will support us at StepChange to continue our important mission.” Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow We need to talk about All Points East: why is everyone at festivals suddenly so hot? Meet the fitness influencer defying stereotypes about ageing Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow 3 World Sicily yacht sinking LIVE: Morgan Stanley bank boss among missing as search resumes for survivors 4 Comment We need to talk about All Points East: why is everyone at festivals suddenly so hot? 5 UK Staff repeatedly contacted out of hours may get thousands more in compensation