Airs Monday 20 February 2023 at 1:45pm on Channel 5. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Ziggy Astoni (played by Sophie Dillman) and her boyfriend, Dean Thompson (Patrick Thompson), had thought that everybody was happy about their baby news on Home and Away (1:45pm - see our TV Guide for listings)

WRONG!

When Dean's young son, Jai Simmons (River Jarvis), visits Summer Bay again, it soon becomes clear that he's worried he'll be forgotten once the baby is born.

Dean shares his fears with his sister, Mackenzie Booth (Emily Weir), who reminds him about her own experience growing-up with half brothers and sisters, and feeling like a burden and an afterthought.

Dean is determined to prove to Jai that he'll always be loved, no matter what.

But as Dean continues to focus on Jai's emotional needs, Ziggy starts to feel sidelined.

If only Dean would spend a bit more time focusing on them.

They are about to have a baby... but don't even have a nursery ready yet.

There is still so much to do!

But when Ziggy chooses to download to her garage boss, Justin Morgan (James Stewart) about her Dean dramas, the surfer dude is NOT happy...  Bree Cameron (Juliet Godwin) is in a panic after discovering that her violent husband, Jacob, hasn't shown-up for work and has gone AWOL.

He could be anywhere...

Despite the Police serving Jacob with an AVO and warning him not to go anywhere near Bree, after she reported him for domestic violence, Bree does not feel safe.

The hospital doctor is in such a state, that she ignores her ringing phone, leaving her secret lover, Remi Carter (Adam Rowland), worried that something TERRIBLE has happened to her...

There's more bad news for Bree when she discovers Jacob has emptied out their bank account.

WHERE is he and WHAT is he planning?  Elsewhere, John Palmer (Shane Withington) is still basking in the glory of his team winning the charity golf tournament.

John intends to make the most of his FREE coffee prize card.

But he may soon be pushing his luck with Diner employee, Irene Roberts (Lynne McGranger)!

Will John quickly wear out his welcome at the Diner?  Home and Away continues weekdays at 1:45pm on Channel 5 Switch over for FIRST LOOK episodes at 6:30pm on 5STAR The series is also available to stream on My5 The latest updates, reviews and unmissable series to watch and more! Simon has long been a fan of soap operas, and especially loves OVER-THE-TOP plots involving evil twins, hair-pulling catfights and natural disasters. 

Anyone remember the Sunset Beach earthquake/tidal wave? 

Or when Krystle Carrington got locked in the attic and replaced by look-a-like Rita in Dynasty?!  Simon has written for a variety of TV and childrens’ magazines/websites including Inside Soap, Nickelodeon, What’s On TV, Radio Times, Metro, Girl Talk, Disney Girl, Toxic! and Digital Spy. 

He has reported LIVE from the red carpet at The British Soap Awards interviewing glammed-up stars from soapland, and hosted a Facebook LIVE session for Metro with Home and Away legend Ray Meagher (Alf "Stone the flamin' crows!" Stewart) to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Aussie soap.  Simon is also co-author of The Treasures Of Coronation Street (Carlton Books)  And the writer and director of (very!) low budget fright flick, Midsummer Night's EVIL and the sequel webisodes series, The Hatchet Woods HORROR.  Home and Away spoilers: WHAT is River Boy Rory up to? Home and Away spoilers: Tane's youth program brings TROUBLE! General Hospital spoilers: week of August 19-23 What to Watch is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 