New Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino has restored the company's relationship with Google Cloud, reports say. She's restarted paying its bills after Elon Musk halted payments, per Bloomberg and the WSJ. Google Cloud was just one of the many companies Twitter had allegedly stopped paying. Twitter has restarted paying its Google Cloud bills under new CEO Linda Yaccarino after Elon Musk halted payments, according to reports by Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal. Platformer first reported earlier this month that Twitter had stopped paying its Google Cloud invoices as part of Musk's drastic cost-cutting spree. Twitter had signed a multi-year contract with Google in 2018 to host services on its servers including fighting spam and removing child sexual abuse material, per the report. Sources told Bloomberg that Google had initially struggled to communicate with Musk to discuss the unpaid bills, and had tried to reach him by contacting staff at SpaceX instead. Yaccarino, who became CEO of the company in early June, helped to restore the relationship and held talks with Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian, a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg. They said that Musk was supportive of the changed relationship. The companies are also negotiating a broader partnership that could include Google's advertising spending on Twitter and its use of Twitter's API, the person added. Twitter typically pays between $200 million and $300 million a year for Cloud services from Google, sources told Bloomberg. Google did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment, while Twitter replied with its standard automatic response, which did not address Insider's query. Since Musk bought Twitter in October, he's claimed that the social-media company had been on the path to bankruptcy and has drastically pulled back on spending. He chopped Twitter's workforce in half the week after he took charge, and has been incrementally laying off other staff ever since. Under Musk's control, Twitter has also cut back on free food for staff, auctioned off company merchandise and office supplies like industrial pizza ovens and swivel chairs, and tried to bring in more revenues by introducing charges to access some of the site's services, such as its blue-check verification program. Google Cloud isn't the only company Twitter had owed money to. A series of lawsuits allege that Twitter stopped paying bills to a number of companies under Musk's control. The allegations range from unpaid invoices to marketing companies for branded merchandise to rent for Twitter's offices, which has led to the company being kicked out of its office in Boulder, Colorado. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.