95%of our graduates were in employment and/or further study, due to start a new job or course, or doing other activities, such as travelling.(HESA 2021) of our graduates were in employment and/or further study, due to start a new job or course, or doing other activities, such as travelling.(HESA 2021) (HESA 2021) Working to makea better futurefor Wales and the world a better futurefor Wales and the world for Wales and the world We putour communitiesat the heart of everything we do our communitiesat the heart of everything we do at the heart of everything we do Welcoming andambitiouswe are truly a globaluniversity we are truly a globaluniversity A leadinguniversityin the heart of athriving capital city in the heart of athriving capital city We are one of the top UK schools of pharmacy. Our teaching is informed and supported by our internationally recognised research and allows students to explore different aspects of modern pharmacy.  We are proud to have recently celebrated our first 100 years of teaching and research excellence. Our determination and commitment to enhance the profession, meet the changing healthcare needs of the population and improve patients’ lives continues. Our degrees are informed and supported by our research and allow students to explore the different aspects of pharmacy. Our pharmaceutical science and health related research spans the complete continuum from basic to applied translational science and clinical practice. We have an international reputation for our teaching and research and we are among the leaders in clinical skills development. We commit to engaging with the public to deliver social and cultural impact, inspire young people and inform the public on scientific issues. We work with industry, education, government and public groups to ensure our research has impact in the real world and benefits human health and welfare. 16 May 2024 Scientists use extracts from killer bees to brew beer 21 February 2024 22 January 2024 21 December 2023 We are one of the top UK schools of pharmacy. Our teaching is informed and supported by our internationally recognised research and allows students to explore different aspects of modern pharmacy. School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Cardiff University, Redwood Building, King Edward VII Avenue, Cardiff, CF10 3NB We are proud to hold the Athena SWAN Bronze Award and we continually strive to ensure gender equality.  Copyright Cardiff University. Registered charity no. 1136855