The MSc in Clinical Pharmacy programme has been designed to meet the professional development requirements of pharmacists working in a wide variety of sectors and environments. The programme consists of clinical and practice modules with real life application. The course requires minimal attendance using blended learning to meet the individual needs of students. DMU values the student experience and prides itself on the support it offers to postgraduate students. The course aims to further develop your approach to patient care and enhance your employability skills, creating confident pharmacists, equipped with the knowledge and skills required to deliver high quality patient care. The programme continually evolves to meet the needs of a profession which is constantly changing and aims to instil a commitment to life-long learning by advancing your learning skills.  Key features   Students can achieve, depending on their module choice: Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Pharmacy (60 credits) Postgraduate Certificate in Clinical Pharmacy with Independent Prescribing (60 credits) Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Pharmacy (120 credits) Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Pharmacy with Independent Prescribing (120 credits) Masters in Clinical Pharmacy (180 credits) Masters in Clinical Pharmacy with Independent Prescribing (180 credits)   For further details about the course please contact: pgpharmacyrecruitment@dmu.ac.uk and a member of the team will contact you. More courses like this: Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists DMU has been shortlisted for the Postgraduate Award in the 2024 Whatuni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs), as voted for by students. Course code: B23087 Duration:Part-time, distance learning Start dates and admissions: There are two intakes per year, in January/February and September/October. Some modules have a study day and these are delivered at DMU or virtually, depending on the module. We do not offer a virtual version of all in-person study days that we deliver on campus.  For those following a structured pathway, the certificate year includes one induction day and two study days. Attendance on the induction day is strongly recommended. Places on the course are allocated based on the order of receipt of a fully completed application with accompanying supporting documentation. Please note that course start dates may vary, and that there are a limited number of places available per intake. Fees and funding: For the 2024/2025 academic year, the fees will be £640 per 15 credit module Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing: For the 2024/2025 academic year, the fees will be £2,225 for 45 credits Application form   Course code: B23087 Duration:Part-time, distance learning Start dates and admissions: There are two intakes per year, in January/February and September/October. Some modules have a study day and these are delivered at DMU or virtually, depending on the module. We do not offer a virtual version of all in-person study days that we deliver on campus.  For those following a structured pathway, the certificate year includes one induction day and two study days. Attendance on the induction day is strongly recommended. Places on the course are allocated based on the order of receipt of a fully completed application with accompanying supporting documentation. Please note that course start dates may vary, and that there are a limited number of places available per intake. Fees and funding: For the 2024/2025 academic year, the fees will be £640 per 15 credit module Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing: For the 2024/2025 academic year, the fees will be £2,225 for 45 credits The university may consider accreditation of prior learning if the student has studied a similar courses at a different university. English language requirements: If English is not your first language an IELTS score of 7 or equivalent when you start the course is essential with no component below 5.5. English language tuition, delivered by our British Council accredited Centre for English Language Learning (CELL), is available both before and during the course. GPhC Registered Pharmacists: The General Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain (GPhC) provides guidance on the evidence of English language skills required for pharmacy professionals to practise, register and work in Great Britain. The guidance applies to registrants and anyone applying to register with the GPhC. The evidence of English language proficiency required by the GPhC is commensurate with the course requirements above. Therefore, GPhC registered applicants will not be required to provide proof of English language qualifications with their application form but will instead be required to confirm that they have provided the required evidence of English language proficiency to the GPhC. Please be aware that any future requests to switch from a Tier 2/work visa route into an alternative student route or course may not be accommodated.  Please visit dmu.ac.uk/international for more information.   The programme structure is currently under review. This page will be updated shortly to reflect the module offering from September 2024 onwards.  We offer structured and modular pathways: Structured Pathway (recommended) – You will study Professional Practice 1, Applied Therapeutics 1, Applied Therapeutics 2 and Applied Therapeutics 3 modules in the Certificate year and your choice of modules in the Diploma year.  Modular Pathway – You choose the modules that you study. Please note, if choosing the modular pathway there may be limitations on when modules are running within the academic year and this may mean that completing your planned programme of study may take longer than if choosing the structured pathway. Modules available:  Masters Year* Please note: the modules offered and the timings of the modules may be subject to change. Module availability is subject to a minimum number of students wishing to study a module each time the module is timetabled to run. *Students who wish to study the Masters Year need to have successfully completed the Concepts in Research module or have prior research methods training. ** Entry onto the Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing module is restricted to pharmacists registered with the GPhC and the PSNI. The Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing module also has its own independent applications process that meets current regulatory requirements. Being accepted onto the MSc in Clinical Pharmacy programme does not guarantee a place on the Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing module. Note: All modules are indicative and based on the current academic session. Course information is correct at the time of publication and is subject to review. Exact modules may, therefore, vary for your intake in order to keep content current. If there are changes to your course we will, where reasonable, take steps to inform you as appropriate.   Our distance learning approach with minimal on-campus learning is designed to allow you to study alongside your professional role.  Study materials are available online in the DMU virtual learning environment. We suggest you will need to spend about 10-15 hours per week studying the course material and undertaking assessment. You will be supported on your postgraduate journey by a highly motivated and experienced team. Modules in the certificate year are supported by three on-campus study days. Study day requirements for diploma year modules vary. Our assessment strategy is designed to meet the developing needs of pharmacy professionals and are aligned with professional credentialling principles. Assessments include portfolio assessments, case presentations, critical evaluation of care, targeted structured reflection, and structured reports. The Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing includes a three station OSCE-style examination, alongside a critical evaluation of patient care and a portfolio assessment.   The course employs a dedicated team of staff who contribute to the course. The team are all registered pharmacists with experience across all sectors of pharmacy practice. MSc supervisors are drawn from the Leicester School of Pharmacy and the wider Faculty of Health and Life Sciences. The academic team is supported by peripatetic teacher practitioners, pharmacists and doctors who contribute to the course learning and teaching strategies. There are two intakes per year, in January/February and September/October. Places on the course are allocated in the order of receipt of a fully completed application with accompanying supporting documentation. There are limited places available and the programme may close to applications prior to the admission deadline if all places are filled. Location: Leicester Induction day: Tuesday 24, or Wednesday 25, or Thursday 26 September 2024 First study day: Tuesday 12, or Wednesday 13, or Thursday 14 November 2024 Second study day: Tuesday 11, or Wednesday 12, or Thursday 13 February 2025 Please note: Case Presentation assessment takes place the week commencing 28 April 2025. Students will be required to make themselves available online in an uninterrupted manner for up to 90 minutes. Location: Leicester Induction day: Tuesday 21, or Wednesday 22, or Thursday 23 January 2025 First study day: Tuesday 11, or Wednesday 12, or Thursday 13 March 2025 Second study day: Tuesday 17, or Wednesday 18, or Thursday 19 June 2025 Please note: Case Presentation assessment takes place the week commencing 1 September 2025 students will be required to make themselves available online in an uninterrupted manner for up to 90 minutes. All dates are provisional and may be subject to change. Substantial investment in Health and Life Sciences has developed our teaching and learning facilities to help you develop your practical experience and theoretical knowledge beyond the classroom. The 19th century Hawthorn Building has facilities designed to replicate current practice in health and life sciences, including contemporary analytical chemistry and formulation laboratories, audiology booths and nursing and midwifery clinical skills suites. Purpose-built clinical skills areas allow you to apply theory to practice in a safe environment. You will receive guidance and support from staff, to ensure that your practical ability in the clinical skills suites is accurate. On campus, the main Kimberlin Library offers a space where you can work, study and access a vast range of print materials, with computer stations, laptops, plasma screens and assistive technology also available.  As well as providing a physical space in which to work, we offer online tools to support your studies, and our extensive online collection of resources accessible from our Library website, e-books, specialised databases and electronic journals and films which can be remotely accessed from anywhere you choose.  We will support you to confidently use a huge range of learning technologies, including Learning Zone, Collaborate Ultra, DMU Replay, MS Teams, Turnitin and more. Alongside this, you can access LinkedIn Learning and learn how to use Microsoft 365, and study support software such as mind mapping and note-taking through our new Digital Student Skills Hub.  The library staff offer additional support to students, including help with academic writing, research strategies, literature searching, reference management and assistive technology. There is also a ‘Just Ask’ service for help and advice, live LibChat, online workshops, tutorials and drop-ins available from our Learning Services, and weekly library live chat sessions that give you the chance to ask the library teams for help. Our Learning Zones and The Greenhouse also provide space for group or individual work and study. There are 1,600 study places across all library locations, more than 700 computer stations, laptops to borrow, free wi-fi and desktop power outlets. You can also book rooms with plasma screens, laptops and DVD facilities for group work and presentations, secure an individual study room with adjustable lighting or make use of our assistive technology. As part of the university's commitment to enhancing the personal and career development of our graduates. We offer an Alumni scholarship programme. For more information visit  Health and Life Sciences Alumni Scholarships.  Name   Gunn and Carter Fellowship £3000 per annum.    Description   To support research in the Leicester Institute for Pharmaceutical Innovation The specialist and learning skills you acquire are highly sought after in many different sectors of practice. Having an MSc is recognised by many employers as a stepping stone in career progression.   Postgraduate events Submit a study-related enquiry How to apply De Montfort University The Gateway Leicester LE1 9BH UNITED KINGDOM De Montfort University The Gateway Leicester LE1 9BH UNITED KINGDOM