Sign up to our free newsletter and be the first to know about the latest fashion, travel and lifestyle happenings, as well as exclusive reader events and offers Subscribe to the Luxury London print edition If you have the cash to splash, why not book into one of the most luxurious penthouses on the planet? Money may not buy you happiness but it will certainly buy you luxury. While many high-end hotels in far-flung destinations ask eye-watering prices for simple double rooms, those hotels will also likely boast an expansive hideaway tucked away that’s bound to blow your mind – and the average person’s budget. Whether you’re looking to celebrate an anniversary, wedding or any other one of life’s milestones (or simply need to get away from it all), live like royalty in one of the world’s most expensive hotel suites. From Moroccan palaces to Fijian island paradises, here are some of the best suites money can buy.  A hotel within a hotel, the 19,375 square foot Moroccan mansion was quite literally built for royalty. It’s owned by King Mohammed VI of Morocco, who often escapes regal life to relax at the pink palace, so you could even be rubbing shoulders with sovereignty during your stay.  The extravagant hotel features ornate mosaic tiles, marble pillars, keyhole archways and latticed stonework, making a saunter around the 53-riad complex feel like something out of a film. Inside the three-storey The Grand Riad, a patio guides you to the lower level, which occupies a study, library, dining room, Moroccan lounge, bar, and professional kitchen, where your meals will be freshly prepared each day. Rest easy knowing a team of private staff, butlers, cooks, housekeepers and watchmen are on hand to make your stay as comfortable, and safe, as possible. Explore the rest of the suite to find three huge bedrooms, a boudoir and that all-important gym and cinema for ultimate home comforts. The real highlight of the Grand Riad is the roof terrace, boasting breathtaking views over the Medina, the Atlas Mountains and the famous Koutoubia – the largest mosque in Morocco – which is made even better thanks to the golden, soft sun at dusk.  From $43,480 (around £35,700) per night, visit royalmansour.com The Mark Hotel has several accolades to its name, among them being named the best hotel in the world in 2017, and that it boasts the largest penthouse known to man. A hotspot for the Manhattan elite and several notable high-society members (Oprah Winfrey, Anna Wintour, Russell Crowe and Marc Jacobs, to name but a few), The Mark is a New York City institution known for its grandeur and relaxed atmosphere, which makes guests, whatever their society status, feel right at home.  The Mark Penthouse is a credit to French interior designer Jacques Grange, who transformed the large hotel suite into a majestic residence that doesn’t skimp on the small details. Set across two floors, guests will find five bedrooms, featuring open fireplaces, six bathrooms and two wet bars. The Living Room is often transformed into a Grand Ballroom, where you can dance the night away beneath 26-ft ceilings. Throughout the penthouse, you’ll only find one-of-a-kind furniture pieces, designed by Grange himself. The real star of the show is the stunning rooftop terrace, which offers views across the Big Apple and over Central Park. The most perfect backdrop while enjoying a morning coffee, if you ask us.  From $75,000 (around £61,500) per night, visit themarkhotel.com Sitting atop a rocky Fijian perch is one of the most luxurious villas in the world, the Udu Residence. As part of the Como Laucala Island resort, the villa is just one of 25 on one of the largest private islands in the world, boasting an untouched tropical paradise that’s sensitively blended with opulent Fijian dwellings.  All 25 villas on the island were built with privacy in mind, but the most secluded is certainly the Udu Residence. Enjoy your own slice of paradise from your secluded beach, which is set within a cove below. The terrace at the top of the villa offers 220-degree views of the ocean and neighbouring islands. This is perfect for a romantic getaway as it only has one plush king bed, but couples can enjoy the intimate surroundings in all their splendour. Take a dip in the private plunge pool, or lounge on the wooden, sun-drenched deck.  From $12,900 per night (around £10,195), visit comohotels.com When The Muraka Suite opened in 2018, it became the Maldives’ and the world’s first underwater hotel. Part of the luxurious Conrad Maldives Rangali Island Resort, you’ll arrive at the ultimate holiday destination in true style via a private seaplane or speedboat before being greeted by a personal butler who will be at your service for the duration of your stay.  The Muraka Suite is a unique, two-storey villa completely submerged 16 feet below sea level in the Indian Ocean. Descend underwater via a spiral staircase to the master bedroom, which is encased in a 180-degree curved acrylic dome, allowing you to live among ocean wildlife as iridescent fish, large rays and turtles glide above as you sleep. Keep your head above water on the upper level, which includes two bedrooms with an ocean-facing bathtub and an outdoor deck with an infinity pool.  From $36,997 (around £29,230) per night, visit conradmaldives.com One of the most popular hotels in Las Vegas, Palms Resort and Casino has enjoyed its fair share of screen time. It was the main setting for the 2002 reality television show The Real World: Las Vegas, which contributed to its fame, and has also hosted many film premieres, including The Italian Job Movie and Ocean’s Thirteen. But it has also made history in other ways too, becoming the first resort in Las Vegas to be owned and operated by a Native American tribe. The hotel comprises 700 rooms within two towers, but the real highlight for the rich and famous is the Empathy Suite. Designed by English artist Damien Hurst, the apartment is an artistic masterpiece in its own right, adorned with unique artworks. Inside, you’ll find two king bedrooms, a private pool and a terrace with floor-to-ceiling windows showing off the bright lights of the Las Vegas strip. Although it only sleeps four guests, the large 13-seat bar makes it the perfect place to entertain guests, with a 24-hour butler on call to help meet your every need. The two-night minimum stay policy here makes it the most expensive suite in the world, so when you’re tired of blackjack on the casino floor, know you can rest easy at one of the most luxurious residences around.  From $100,000 (around £82,000) per night with a two-night minimum stay, visit palms.com Read more: The world’s most exclusive holiday destinations Related © 2021-2024 - Luxury London. All rights reserved. Luxury London is not responsible for the content of external sites. Part of Luxury London Media Ltd (09312298)