Stage 1 Outdoor Water Restrictions remain in effect. Beginning August 26, we will return to Stage 4 Outdoor Restrictions and limited indoor water use as we complete urgent feeder main repairs. Information on all City services Experience and participate in making life better every day in Calgary Calgary's elected officials and the City's main governing body Calgary's administration and staff Make your existing suite legal and registered. Review the requirements for suites and learn how to apply. Review the requirements for backyard suites and learn how to apply. Information for tenants on renting a safe and legal suite. Find or verify a legal and safe suite on our map A self-contained residence with two or more rooms and includes a kitchen, living, sleeping and sanitary facilities. All suites must have: A secondary suite is a self-contained residence, located within a main residence. This can be located on any floor within the home, like the basement, main floor or upper floor. A backyard suite is a self-contained residence that is detached from the main residence. This includes garage suites, garden suites or laneway homes. A suite may be considered existing and need to be legalized if all of the below are true: If all of these requirements are not met the suite will be considered new. See add a secondary suite for more details. If there is more than one suite on the property or in the building, Contact the Planning Services Centre for further assistance A building permit is required for all secondary suites, regardless of when they were constructed.  The Secondary Suite Incentive Program supports safe housing for all. The program will provide up to $10,000 per qualifying homeowner. Watch our recorded Q&A on everything you need to know about developing a secondary suite in Calgary.   Hear from Development, Business & Building Services they discuss permits, fees, and how to make your suite legal and safe. Subscribe to our email list to get updates on secondary suites. 
                        This information has no legal status and cannot be used as an official interpretation of the various bylaws, codes and regulations currently in effect. The City of Calgary accepts no responsibility to persons relying solely on this information. Web pages are updated periodically. ​
                     By beginning this survey you accept our privacy policy (1 is very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied) By beginning this survey you accept our privacy policy (1 is very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied) (1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy) (1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy) (1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy) (1 is very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied) (1 is very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied) © 2024. Official web site of The City of Calgary, located in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.