Zoetis donated $250,000 in the first half of 2023 to Folds of Honor. This is the second year of partnership with the nonprofit, bringing Zoetis' overall total contribution to $830,000 which has funded 166 scholarships to deserving recipients.  Folds of Honor was founded in 2007 by Lt. Col. Dan Rooney and is based in Owasso, Oklahoma. Folds of Honor provides academic scholarships to the families of men and women who have fallen or been disabled while serving in the U.S. armed forces.  Zoetis' donation to the scholarship program is based upon sales of select Zoetis products. "With the continues support of our beef and dairy producers, Zoetis helps fund scholarship programs for the families of heroes who help protect our rights and freedoms as Americans," said Jared Shriver, U.S. Livestock Senior Vice President at Zoetis.  Long-time Zoetis customer and rancher, Tyler Petrak of Martin, South Dakota, feels it’s his duty as an American patriot to support programs like Folds of Honor. “Having the largest animal health company join this program speaks volumes,” Petrak said. “Anyone can sell pharmaceuticals, but the help Zoetis is able to provide to those families in need is extremely meaningful.” Zoetis is committed to supporting the legacy of military service members in agriculture and communities across the United States. Zoetis will donate a portion of sales of select cattle products through Dec. 31, 2023, to Folds of Honor. Qualifying products are Draxxin® (tulathromycin injection) Injectable Solution, Draxxin® KP (tulathromycin and ketoprofen injection) Injectable Solution, Excede® (ceftiofur crystalline free acid) Sterile Suspension and Excenel® RTU EZ (ceftiofur hydrochloride) Sterile Suspension. For more information about Folds of Honor, visit www.foldsofhonor.org. If you would like to learn more about how Zoetis works with Folds of Honor, contact your local Zoetis representative or visit www.zoetisus.com/misc/folds-of-honor-faq.aspx. Global Ag Media provides a knowledge sharing platform offering premium news, analysis and information resources for the global agriculture industry. esc  Sign up to our regular newsletter and access news from across the Global AG Media network