Tuesday, 20 August 19 Aug 2023 TRENDING Legendary artist, actor and broadcaster Bonginkosi "Zola 7" Dlamini will let people into his life as a musician and how it all started through the making of his debut album. The documentary is named after the album, Zola: Umdlwembe. It will be broadcast on SABC1’s Certified Classics, which airs every Sunday. The documentary, a celebration of  the kwaito legend’s cultural impact, will showcase Dlamini’s music career from the beginning, as Umdlwembe is believed to have changed kwaito genre. The album was released in May 2000. READ: Watch | 'Funny and lyrically skilled' - Zwai Bala remembers Magesh In a collaboration between his company, Guluva Entertainment and Enzo Slaghuis, the musician breaks down some of his most iconic songs and for the first time shares the stories behind them.  “The dream of making Umdlwembe, I suppose, is one thing that every young person wants in life - to give them that break. Umdlwembe was my big break, and at the same time there was Yizo Yizo, which I was selected to play. What I prayed for and wanted in my life happened and it is what every young person wants to see,” said Dlamini in a statement. He played Papa Action in the popular and controversial series. One more sleep bese ziyakhala. I hope you are ready, I'm excited to share the birth of ZOLA with all of you. SABC 1 this Sunday at 6pm. #uMdlwembe #namanje #GuluvaSeason pic.twitter.com/dOBepbIFEB He added: “It was amazing for me as I come from a township [Zola in Soweto], and in my mind never saw this happening. But in the end, we became the generation that proved that anything is possible. It gave birth to new talents who have contributed [to the music genre] and brought satisfaction [to the fans]. I thank all my supporters.” Sho bafwethu. This Sunday tune into SABC 1 at 6pm as we take a journey back to the birth of ZOLA! #namanje pic.twitter.com/QxserPiwiU READ: Mandoza's biopic set to hit the screens next month Speaking to Macgyver Mukwevho's  podcast MacG on Podcast and Chill, Dlamini said the documentary took three years to make because he was sick at the time, and had been in and out of hospital. “I became really sick, then I was up and about to shoot [the documentary], then I went into a coma. I came back, then went into a coma again, I come back then I [thought] am not looking good. We put it on hold [and said] we will see it in six months’ time. It was a true rollercoaster. Eventually we compiled and completed it,” he said. Certified Classics has featured other kwaito legends, also from Zola township. They include the late Brown Dash (whose given name is Siphiwe Mpamile) and Mapaputsi (Sandile Ngwenya).  Zola: Umdlwembe will air on SABC1 on Sunday at 6pm.   19 Aug 15 Apr 05 Apr 27 Feb 30 Jan