
					By Peter White  Executive Editor, Television 
EXCLUSIVE: Zola Mashariki, the former Fox Searchlight and BET exec who has headed up Audible Studios for the last two years, is leaving the Amazon-owned company. 
	Mashariki has been in the position since early 2021. She is expected to remain in a transition role through the middle of October.  
	As head of Audible Studios, she was tasked with spearheading original content for the company, reporting to Chief Content Officer Rachel Ghiazza. 
	She oversaw series such as singing competition podcast Breakthrough, which starred Sara Bareilles and Kelly Rowland, and was behind signing a slew of talent deals with A-list stars.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					'How To Make Millions Before Grandma Dies' Secures Theatrical Releases Across North America, China & Europe		
			















	News
	



	
		
					2024 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming		
			





 
	Mashariki spent 15 years at Searchlight, where she rose to SVP of production, overseeing projects like The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, The Secret Life of Bees and The Last King of Scotland. As part of the acquisitions team, she also worked on Best Picture Oscar winners Slumdog Millionaire and 12 Years A Slave. 
	She later joined BET, where she was Head of Original Programming between 2015 and 2017, developing and exec producing series such as The New Edition Story, John Singleton’s series Rebel, and Laurence Fishburne’s Nelson Mandela story Madiba.

 
	Before joining Audible, Mashariki was chief content officer for One Community, formerly known as Good Films. She oversaw the company’s 2019 release, Just Mercy, which starred Michael B. Jordan, Brie Larson and Jamie Foxx. Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	