Or wipe from iOS too. 
Rovio could reverse its decision to de-list Angry Birds from the Google Play store.
 
At the end of February, the mobile publisher removed the original Angry Birds game from the store due to its business "impact" on the publisher's other games. On iOS, the game was renamed to Red's First Flight.
 
Now, in a statement to Axios from a senior executive at the publisher, Rovio could reverse its decision to remove the game - or if the change is successful it could remove it from iOS too.
 



Let's Play The Angry Birds Movie 2 VR: Under Pressure - IAN'S VR CORNER LIVE FROM EGX 2019!



Let's Play The Angry Birds Movie 2 VR: Under Pressure Watch on YouTube
 
Rovio claims its recent moves have been misunderstood and are not the case of lucrative free-to-play games clipping the wings of a popular paid game.
 
It's been claimed that the original game's 79p price tag is more alluring than its free-to-play sequels which contain microtransactions.
 
"We have reviewed the business case of Rovio Classics: Angry Birds, and due to the game's impact on our wider games portfolio, we have decided that Rovio Classics: Angry Birds will be unlisted from the Google Play Store on Thursday, 23rd February," read a statement on Twitter by Rovio from February. "Additionally, the game will be renamed to Red's First Flight in the App Store pending further review.
 
"We understand this is sad news for many fans, as well as the team that has worked hard to make Rovio Classics: Angry Birds a reality. We are extremely grateful to the Angry Birds fans who have shown their love of the brand and this game from the beginning."
 
Rovio has said it's unsure if these latest measures will fix its perceived problem. "We've spent the last, whatever it is, 10 or 11 months trying to solve this problem," Rovio's head of Angry Birds strategy Ben Mattes told Axios. The company was left with "no choice but to do something a little bit more drastic".
 
Should the renaming test on iOS satisfy Rovio, the game could return to Google Play with the Red's First Flight name. If deletion works, the game could also be removed entirely from iOS.

 
Angry Birds
 
iOS, 
            PC, 
            Windows Phone
 
        From Assassin's Creed to Zoo Tycoon, we welcome all gamers
       
        Eurogamer welcomes videogamers of all types, so sign in and join our community!
       

Sega buys Angry Birds maker Rovio for £625m                    
 

Sega is reportedly in talks to buy up Angry Birds developer, Rovio Entertainment                    
 

Angry Birds will leave Android store, developer says it's just too popular                    
 

Minecraft now has an Angry Birds expansion                    
 

Facebook accused of "friendly fraud" and intentionally misleading children                    
 

Everton FC fans in a flap about new Angry Birds sponsor                    
 

Angry Birds movie is getting a sequel                    
 

Here's what the Angry Birds movie looks like                    
 Bad puns and video games since 1999. Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.