Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » Zola 7 reveals how ‘fake music’ has hijacked the music industry Zola 7, 46, emphasized the need for authenticity and honesty in music, as well as the impact of these changes on artists. Legendary Kwaito artist and icon in South African music, Zola 7, shared his views on the current state of the music industry in South Africa during an interview on the Podcast And Chill show hosted by Mac G. ALSO READ: Saw 2PAC and Biggie? Zola 7 says he saw life after death [watch] In a candid conversation with the show’s host, Mac G, the beloved musician delved into the current state of the South African music industry reports SAHipHopmag. He highlighted the seismic shifts that have occurred since his heyday. Mac G asked Zola 7 about what he thought of the current status of the music industry. To which Zola 7 responded with a passionate call for honesty and authenticity in music. “First of all, I think the public needs to be honest. Let’s try to buy musical honest or straight, but the public no longer knows where to find that music,”  ALSO READ: Zola 7 to take fans on a musical journey in his documentary He emphasized that many of the companies responsible for promoting and distributing authentic music have shuttered their doors, leaving the public with no choice but to turn to streaming platforms and digital formats.  “Some people still want CDs, If I got a cassette of a certain artist, I would like to just keep it and frame it one day. People no longer know where to find those things, so then eventually fake music literally took over South Africa.” ALSO READ: Zola 7 buys Rorisang flowers, praises her for staying a virgin The music landscape that Zola 7 once thrived in, was characterized by the connection between artists and fans through physical formats. These days have given way to a digital realm where authenticity is sometimes sacrificed for the sake of mass production and profit. This shift has significant consequences for the artists themselves. The artist didn’t mince words when addressing the financial struggles of contemporary artists. He explained that the lack of CD and cassette sales has left many talented individuals in dire straits.  “By the time they say an artist is broke and stuff, you’re just chilling there thinking by this week she would be sitting on 20 million, next week she would be on 40 million, but now they are broke, that’s how bad it gets.” The stark reality painted by the artists’ words is a wake-up call for South Africa’s music industry and its fans. The digital age has brought unprecedented convenience, but at what cost? Are we sacrificing the soul of our music for the sake of modernity and convenience? It’s a question worth pondering. As Zola 7 continues to inspire a new generation with his wisdom, it’s clear that he’s not just a Kwaito legend; he’s a voice of reason in a rapidly changing musical landscape. The legacy he’s built serves as a testament to the power of authentic, heartfelt music, and perhaps it’s time we heed his call to preserve the true essence of South African sound. CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ARTICLES BY PRECIOUS SIMPASA  Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! Betway Premiership side Kaizer Chiefs are not resting. Amakhosi have reportedly sent an offer to buy a striker target for this season. Marshall Dlamini, the EFF secretary-general, will be party chief whip in the National Assembly, replacing Floyd Shivambu. Several Kaizer Chiefs midfielders are linked with exits. Interestingly, a couple of big-name PSL rivals have lined up. Former Orlando Pirates winger Lebohang Mokoena says Kaizer Chiefs are biased when it comes to appointing youth coaches. US talk show host Phil Donahue has died at the age of 88 in Manhattan after a long illness, his family has confirmed. Discover daily furry fun facts. Whether adorable or kind of gross, our pets never cease to amaze us. Join us in exploring their world!  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.