E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary ad, please contact obits@trentonian.com or 610-235-2690.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition Think a sushi dinner can’t get an upgrade?Well, don’t tell that to chef Mitsutaka Harada, who is now offering an intimate eight-seat, 90-minute omakase experience through a private door behind Izakaya Fishtown, 1832 Frankford Ave., called Sushi Suite.“Guests should come out to expect a fantastic 17-course meal in an intimate environment where they are directly interacting with the chef preparing their food course by course in front of them,” said SimpleVenue Founder Michael Sinensky. “To be able to hear a chef describe their food, taste the passion behind it, and see it being made in front of you is a show in and of itself and we want everyone to be able to experience this style of dining.”Sushi Suite, done up in the style of a 1920’s speakeasy, is simply the most delicious and enlightening experience. For reservations, go to https://sushibybou.com.Harada will serve diners directly, making each seating a truly once-in-a-lifetime experience with no two services ever the same. Guests will feel like Chef Harada is their own personal chef as he creates 17 delectable pieces of nigiri sushi ranging from succulent botan ebi to prized Hokkaido uni all made from sustainable fish sourced from all over the world.The chef hails from Japan, and now lives in Bala Cynwyd.He attended Temple University. He brings with him 17 years of experience from some of Philadelphia’s most well-known and well-regarded restaurants, including Morimoto, Zama, Sushi Hatsu, Ginza, Makiman, Mizu Sushi, Makiman and others.“All of our sushi chefs at Sushi Suite came from other high-end omakase restaurants and apprenticed under master sushi chefs that were given this same chance at some point in their career to run their own counter,” said Sinensky. “Chef Mitsutaka Harada learned under Chef Morimoto but now it’s his turn to shine.”

Guests will enter an upscale, dark and intimate dining room with seating for eight, that brings together a 1920s glam paired with modern day speakeasy vibes. Interior designer Diana Romeo wanted to bring the beautiful space to the next level, with more life, more warmth and more dimension, with design touches from the Gatsby era.“By incorporating 1920’s inspired glam wallpaper, beaded backdrops, fringe pendants, ornate mirrors and faux ostrich feathers we hope our guests will not only feel like they’re stepping back in time but can also get that Instagram worthy photo from any angle,” said Romeo.
 










View this post on Instagram























A post shared by Vince Carey (@vincecarey)

It’s not all about the food, though. There are perfect drink pairings available as well. Guests can compliment their food experience with a craft selection of handmade cocktails, imported sake, and rare Japanese whiskies.“We wanted to curate a beverage menu that pairs well with everything we’re serving,” said Sinensky. “Creating cocktails and highballs that balance well with sushi, which can have delicate flavors, and don’t overwhelm the palate or overshadow the food itself was very important to us. We also wanted to feature Japanese spirits in it along with Japanese flavors like yuzu.”Izakaya Fishtown was already one of the more accomplished Japanese restaurants around and Sushi Suite brings it to a new level.“The Izakaya experience in front of 1832 Frankfort is a perfect compliment to our Sushi Suite,” said SimpleVenue’s Sinensky. “In the front, you can enjoy small al a carte affordable bites and cocktails in a more casual setting, but in the back at Suite you can try something completely different and trust us with a 17 course pre-fixe tasting menu featuring a local sushi master.”  Well, don’t tell that to chef Mitsutaka Harada, who is now offering an intimate eight-seat, 90-minute omakase experience through a private door behind Izakaya Fishtown, 1832 Frankford Ave., called Sushi Suite. “Guests should come out to expect a fantastic 17-course meal in an intimate environment where they are directly interacting with the chef preparing their food course by course in front of them,” said SimpleVenue Founder Michael Sinensky. “To be able to hear a chef describe their food, taste the passion behind it, and see it being made in front of you is a show in and of itself and we want everyone to be able to experience this style of dining.” Sushi Suite, done up in the style of a 1920’s speakeasy, is simply the most delicious and enlightening experience. For reservations, go to https://sushibybou.com. Harada will serve diners directly, making each seating a truly once-in-a-lifetime experience with no two services ever the same. Guests will feel like Chef Harada is their own personal chef as he creates 17 delectable pieces of nigiri sushi ranging from succulent botan ebi to prized Hokkaido uni all made from sustainable fish sourced from all over the world. The chef hails from Japan, and now lives in Bala Cynwyd. He attended Temple University. He brings with him 17 years of experience from some of Philadelphia’s most well-known and well-regarded restaurants, including Morimoto, Zama, Sushi Hatsu, Ginza, Makiman, Mizu Sushi, Makiman and others. “All of our sushi chefs at Sushi Suite came from other high-end omakase restaurants and apprenticed under master sushi chefs that were given this same chance at some point in their career to run their own counter,” said Sinensky. “Chef Mitsutaka Harada learned under Chef Morimoto but now it’s his turn to shine.” Guests will enter an upscale, dark and intimate dining room with seating for eight, that brings together a 1920s glam paired with modern day speakeasy vibes. Interior designer Diana Romeo wanted to bring the beautiful space to the next level, with more life, more warmth and more dimension, with design touches from the Gatsby era. “By incorporating 1920’s inspired glam wallpaper, beaded backdrops, fringe pendants, ornate mirrors and faux ostrich feathers we hope our guests will not only feel like they’re stepping back in time but can also get that Instagram worthy photo from any angle,” said Romeo.  A post shared by Vince Carey (@vincecarey)  It’s not all about the food, though. There are perfect drink pairings available as well. Guests can compliment their food experience with a craft selection of handmade cocktails, imported sake, and rare Japanese whiskies. “We wanted to curate a beverage menu that pairs well with everything we’re serving,” said Sinensky. “Creating cocktails and highballs that balance well with sushi, which can have delicate flavors, and don’t overwhelm the palate or overshadow the food itself was very important to us. We also wanted to feature Japanese spirits in it along with Japanese flavors like yuzu.” Izakaya Fishtown was already one of the more accomplished Japanese restaurants around and Sushi Suite brings it to a new level. “The Izakaya experience in front of 1832 Frankfort is a perfect compliment to our Sushi Suite,” said SimpleVenue’s Sinensky. “In the front, you can enjoy small al a carte affordable bites and cocktails in a more casual setting, but in the back at Suite you can try something completely different and trust us with a 17 course pre-fixe tasting menu featuring a local sushi master.”   Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group