Burp Scanner Burp Suite's web vulnerability scanner Product comparison What's the difference between Pro and Enterprise Edition? Downloads Download the latest version of Burp Suite. Professional 

Last updated: 
June 18, 2024
 

Read time: 
2 Minutes
 
    You can hold all the data and configuration settings for a particular piece of work in a Burp project file. The file saves data incrementally as you work. There is no need to manually save your work.
 
        When you test some applications, it can generate several gigabytes of data. Make sure that you have sufficient free disk space available when you use Burp project files.
     
    You can select or create a project file from the startup wizard. The options available depend on which edition of Burp Suite you use:
 
        You can import project and configuration files from other users. However, for security reasons, we recommend only importing project and configuration files from trusted sources.
     
    This video shows you how to create new projects and open existing projects. It also shows you how to copy and import project files.
 
    If you open an existing project file, you can select the following settings from the startup wizard:
 This setting can protect you from sending requests that could be set to automatically run when you open a Burp project file. We recommend this setting if the project file is from an unknown or untrusted source.
 Select Pause Automated Tasks if you do not want automated tasks to run when you open projects. If you deselect Trust this project file, automated tasks are paused by default. This setting can protect you from potentially harmful settings that could be configured within a Burp project file. Deselect Trust this project if you want Burp to remove any potentially harmful settings before opening projects. This also pauses any automated tasks configured within the project. We do not recommend proxying traffic through an untrusted project file, even if you deselect Trust this
        project. Was this article helpful? An error occurred, please try again. Burp Suite Vulnerabilities Customers Company Insights © 2024 PortSwigger Ltd.