
author: Kamil Kleszyk
 Baldur's Gate 3 is expected to offer the best character creator in the history of the RPG genre. The multitude of choices is truly impressive. Premiere of Baldur's Gate 3 is fast approaching. Not surprisingly, the developers of the game - Larian - are doing everything to whet the appetite of players. It must be admitted that they are doing it extremely skillfully. "At first we thought: 'You know, maybe nothing will happen. Maybe we'll put another mesh of underwear under it. Who cares? But then we started thinking about it, talking about it, and realized that for some players it's just another way to express their identity,'" she explained. "My personal experience with most of them [slider-based character creators - editor's note] comes down to the fact that you customize it, it takes you a lot of time and effort, and then in the end everything looks the same anyway. We wanted to avoid that. If we were to make sliders, we would have to design something that was really unique and wouldn't look the same as in other games," Dubrovina explained. Below you can watch the footage in question and see for yourself how wide a selection of personalization the developers have prepared for us. Full version of Baldur's Gate 3 will be released on August 3 on PC. PlayStation 5 console owners will have to wait until September 6. Kamil Kleszyk At Gamepressure.com deals with various jobs. So you can expect from him both news about the farming simulator and a text about the impact of Johnny Depp's trial on the future of Pirates of the Caribbean. Introvert by vocation. Since childhood, he felt a closer connection to humanities than to exact sciences. When after years of learning came a time of stagnation, he preferred to call it his "search for a life purpose." In the end, he decided to fight for a better future, which led him to the place where he is today. more Baldur's Gate 3 „Everyone Said it Was Career Death.” Nicolas Cage Was Warned Against a Role that Turned out to be His Greatest Triumph Character Tier List in Sword of Convallaria (SoC) One Million dollars for Three Hours of filming: Tom Cruise Treated himself to One of the Most Expensive Scenes in Cinema History How to Use TV in Supermarket Together "I Was Too Old for it”. 13 Years before Tarantino's Film, Brad Pitt Turned Down a Role alongside Leonardo DiCaprio