The Cities Skylines 2 'not enough customers' message explained and how to deal with it 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Cities Skylines 2 Not Enough Customers message seems to pop up in nearly every players' new city at some point, and it isn't a welcome sign. Just wait a while, and your commercial zones will likely display the 'not enough customers' warning too. Luckily, there are several ways to fix this issue – although it may occasionally be related to a bug, so hopefully you've not been unlucky with that. From proper zoning to better parking spaces, here's how to fix the 'not enough customers' problem in Cities Skylines 2. If you're looking for more help then we also have some Cities Skylines 2 tips to steer you on the right path, pointers for the best ways to make Cities Skylines 2 money, plus how set up Cities Skylines 2 development nodes.   How to export in Cities Skylines 2
how to rotate buildings in Cities Skylines 2
Cities Skylines 2 high rent
Cities Skylines 2 pollution  After playing Cities Skylines 2 for a bit, you may see the "not enough customers" warning message pop up on your map – the little blue icon depicting a person and a money billet. If you hover over this icon, you will see the phrase "not enough customers." As this message only appears in commercial (blue) zones, it means that the shops inside those zones are suffering from a lack of clients.  The Cities Skylines 2 'not enough customers' message may be the result of bad city planning, but it also tends to occur in zones that have previously operated with zero issues. This may be due to the fact that your city has expanded; perhaps you've built a new commercial zone that attracts more customers, draining the older ones of their clientele. Alternatively, your zone may have become less accessible due to a lack of infrastructural upgrades. Whatever the cause, we'll troubleshoot your customer problems below.  There are several things you can do to fix the 'not enough customers' problem in Cities Skylines 2. Here's an overview:  As has been suggested by some players on Paradox's bug report forum, the frequency of the Cities Skylines 2 'not enough customers' pop-up could be related to a bug, especially when the demand for commercial zones in your city stays high. If that is indeed the case, you should expect fewer customer troubles once it's patched – although the tips mentioned above will still hold true. Now that your commercial zones hopefully have enough customers, let's get back to the city-building! © GamesRadar+. Not to be reproduced without permission Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more I’m a freelance journalist who (surprise!) kind of has a thing for videogames. When I’m not working on guides for GamesRadar, you can probably find me somewhere in Teyvat, Novigrad, or Whiterun. Unless I’m feeling competitive, in which case you should try Erangel. You can also find my words on PCGamesN, Fanbyte, PCGamer, Polygon, Esports Insider, and Game Rant. The Wholesome Games Celebration comes to Steam, putting some of my favorite relaxing Animal Crossing and Stardew Valley-likes on sale The most realistic-looking Sims 4 competitor I've ever seen is bringing its character creator to Steam, and I still can't believe it comes from the PUBG studio 32 movies that revolutionized VFX GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 