Dec. 17—Boulder —30th Street and Colorado Avenue underpass project: Left turns will be restricted westbound, eastbound and southbound for underpass construction. Sidewalk detours where noted (southeast quadrant sidewalks closed); use temporary crossings at 30th/Euclid Avenue and Colorado west of the intersection. Cyclists merge with traffic. Northbound bus stop on 30th (BOUND) is closed; board at next stop. Anticipated to end Jan. 31. —North Broadway: Pavement will be improved to concrete and buffered bike lanes installed. Vehicle travel lanes will shift to the existing northbound lane and bike lane. The west-side sidewalk will be closed; the east-side sidewalk can be used. The bicycle and pedestrian reroute will be to the west along Ninth Street and multiuse path. Activity time is from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. Anticipated to end Dec. 30. —Hill Hotel: Westbound Pleasant is open for local traffic from Broadway to the alley. The eastbound lane is closed. This is for demolition of old buildings and waterline and new sewer work. Activity time is 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. Anticipated to end Jan. 31, 2024. —19th Street: Utility lines on 19th will be placed underground from Poplar to Riverside avenues. Expect bike and vehicle detours with flaggers during working hours, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. Work is expected to last through Feb. 1. Longmont —Longs Peak Avenue: Work on the Price Park Tank Replacement project is underway. This 18-month-long project is intended to improve water quality and service within the city. Eastbound and westbound lanes on Longs Peak Avenue now run next to each other along the south side of the road between Sunset Street and the entrance to the Sunset Golf Course. All recreational facilities — including Price Park, Sunset Park, Sunset Pool and Sunset Golf Course — are expected to remain open during construction. There is still two-way traffic, but the existing westbound lane is expected to remain closed, and the new traffic pattern to remain in place, until the project is completed in spring 2024. Boulder County —Sugarloaf Road: Boulder County is working on the last 2013 flood recovery-related project on Sugarloaf Road. The project involves the construction of five retaining walls, drainage improvements and reconstruction of approximately 2,000 feet of roadway just up from Colo. 119 and will include a 4-foot shoulder in the uphill lane. Due to an unsafe and confined work zone, Sugarloaf will be closed between Colo. 119 and Betasso Road from 9:30 a.m. to noon and 1 to 3:30 p.m. weekdays. Sugarloaf will remain open in a single-lane configuration through the work zone during all other hours. In addition, Colo. 119/Boulder Canyon Drive will be reduced to one lane from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. weekdays. The project is still ongoing as of Dec. 16. Weld County —Weld County Road 16.5: WCR 16.5 will be closed from WCR 3.25 to WCR 5 from Dec. 19 to 22 for culvert replacement. —Colo. 52 and Weld County Road 19: Construction on culvert improvements has begun at the intersection of Colo. 52 and WCR 19. The end of a concrete box culvert is being extended for enhanced road safety. The intersection will remain open, but right turns will be temporarily prohibited for trucks going northbound on WCR 19 and westbound on Colo. 52. The work is scheduled from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays with occasional extended hours and weekend work through Feb. 1. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.