TDT | Manama                                                 The Daily Tribune – www.newsofbahrain.com      Manama barged through last night to the semi-finals of the Gulf sub-zone in the 2022/2023 FIBA West Asia Super League (WASL). The reigning Bahrain league champions booked their berth following a thrilling 82-79 victory over Kazma of Kuwait in the winner-take-all third game of their best-of-three qualification series, played at Zain Basketball Arena in Um Al Hassam. Manama’s triumph yesterday completed their comeback from a loss at home in the match-up’s opening fixture. They then won game two in Kuwait City to force last night’s rubber match, and are now through to the Gulf’s last four. Manama will next face Al Hilal of Saudi Arabia, also over three games, scheduled to take place on April 17, April 24 and May 1. There is another qualification series to the semi-finals between Shabab Al Ahli of Dubai and Al Nassr Riyadh of Saudi Arabia. That head-to-head has also reached a decisive third game, which is scheduled to be played tonight in Dubai. The victor between Shabab Al Ahli and Nasser will advance to play Kuwait SC of Kuwait in a best-of-three. Lamont Jones spearheaded Manama in last night’s contest, pouring in 32 points and coming up with some key baskets late on. Travis Thibodeaux added 12 markers and Ahmed Salman had 10. For Kazma, Shane Rector had 20 points as their top scorer while Latavious Williams added 17. Manama took command early on yesterday, quickly racing out to a 6-0 lead early in the first period—an advantage they extended to 27-13 at the end of the quarter. Kazma marginally narrowed the gap to 33-43 at the half, and then in the third came to within a single point, 55-56. But Ahmed Aldurazi banked in a desperation three-pointer to beat the shot clock and help Manama take a slim 59-55 edge into the final canto. There, Manama fell behind briefly but were able to regain the upper hand through Jones’s stellar play. Kazma mounted a late surge, but a pair of Salman free-throws with five seconds left iced the win. Rector had a chance to tie the game, but his attempt at the buzzer bounced off the back-end of the rim. The WASL is a new basketball competition sanctioned by FIBA, the sport’s global governing body. Manama are one of 16 teams in this inaugural edition. Along with the Gulf sub-zone, there is a West Asia sub-zone. The top three teams from the WASL Gulf and WASL West Asia sub-zones qualify for the WASL Final 8, where they will be joined by champions of South Asia and Central Asia. The WASL Final 8 will qualify for FIBA Asia Champions Cup 2023, on the road to FIBA Intercontinental Cup 2023, FIBA’s highest club competition.   Prev Post Next Post  
 Related Posts 
