Joining a work video call could soon be a lot simpler than launching multiple platforms at once, thanks to a new Microsoft Teams update. The video conferencing service appears to have issued a rather unexpected peace offering to its great rivals, including Zoom and Google Meet, with a new tweak aimed at making joining meetings simpler for users everywhere. The change now means that Microsoft Outlook users will be able to join a meeting set up by a third party service directly from their Teams calendar for the first time. The news is a rare moment of co-operation between the software giants, and perhaps a sign that Microsoft, at least, is opening up to the needs of users who have to juggle mutliple video conferencing platforms on a daily basis. In the official Microsoft 365 roadmap entry for the new feature, only Zoom is mentioned in the title, however "Google meet" (sic) is also mentioned in the description as another "third-party meeting application" that will be included. There's little extra detail on exactly how the feature will work for now, but as per the description, we're guessing the update will allow users to launch a Zoom or Google Meet call directly from their calendar marker. Microsoft says the feature will be available on Windows desktop and Mac devices, with a scheduled rollout date of August 2023. Ever since the pandemic set off the video conferencing arms race, the competition between Microsoft, Zoom and Google (and too a lesser extent, Cisco Webex and BlueJeans, among others) has been intense. Like many of you, I have to juggle mutltiple software platforms throughout my working day, and the ability for any of them to work together seamlessly is incredibly welcome. Google Workspace has previously offered the ability to launch Zoom and Teams calls from its Calendar app, but doesn't make it as easy as launching its own Meet platform. Microsoft's opening up of Teams, for a long time the default choice for organizations due to its ubiquity, is a big step, and hopefully means a lot less frustrations for users everywhere. Check out our rundown of the best online collaboration tools available New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.