My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now AU Small Finance Bank (AU SFB) has introduced a host of festive deals as part of the 'Heart to Cart' Shopping Festival campaign available on AU Credit Cards and Debit Cards. This festive celebration runs from October 15 to November 15 and includes a wide array of prominent merchants across various categories, including mobile phones, electronics, clothing, household appliances, food and groceries, entertainment, travel, health, utilities, furniture and merchant EMIs. AU Small Finance Bank's 'Heart to Cart' Shopping Festival is offering deals during the shopping festivals of major e-retailer platforms. The bank has secured partnerships with more than 30 top-tier brands and the merchant EMI offers are available for over 60 brands and merchants. Customers have the opportunity to enjoy enticing offers from prominent electronic brands such as Reliance Digital, Croma, Tata CLiQ, Vijay Sales, Gostor.com, as well as popular travel portals including Yatra, Cleartrip and EaseMyTrip. Additionally, they can also benefit from offers available on online grocery platforms such as JioMart, Bigbasket, Blinkit and Instamart. The array of offers extends to food delivery apps such as Zomato, Swiggy, and Domino’s, the company said in a release. Moreover, AU Small Finance Bank plans to reward 1,115 fortunate spenders with exciting surprises, which include premium smartphones and Amazon vouchers. During the ongoing ICC World Cup cricket matches involving India, AU Small Finance Bank has amplified its offers in the food ordering and dining categories through Zomato Match Day special promotions. Customers can now enjoy a 20 percent discount (up to Rs 200) on online orders and a 20 percent discount (up to Rs 1,000) on dining while catching all the thrilling matches. During Navratri and Dussehra, AU Small Finance Bank is introducing a nine-day exclusive merchant offer. These include a Rs 200 discount on Swiggy orders and SwiggyInstamart, a 20 percent discount (up to Rs 1,000) on Tata CLiQ, a 20 percent discount (up to Rs 200) on Blinkit, and a 20 percent discount on Zomato for both online orders and dining, among other exciting offers, it said. For Dhanteras, customers can avail of a 5 percent cashback on jewellery purchases using AU Credit Card. The bank is extending special festive offers on various financial products, including home loans, trade forex, gold loans, and lockers. Home loan customers can benefit from a 0.25 percent waiver on processing fees, while gold loan customers can enjoy a zero processing fee on loans up to Rs 3 lakh. While announcing the ‘Heart to Cart” Shopping Festival offers, Uttam Tiberwal, Executive Director of AU Small Finance Bank, said: "Over the years, AU SFB has consistently rewarded and engaged our customers with enticing offers year-round. As a retail bank with a strong presence across rural and semi-urban India, we understand the value and importance of festivals, which bring friends and family together. During this festive season, with our latest campaign, ‘Heart to Cart” Shopping Festival offers, we take commitment to our customers and their happiness to newer heights." Disclaimer: Moneycontrol is a part of the Network18 group. Network18 is controlled by Independent Media Trust, of which Reliance Industries is the sole beneficiary.   Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.