
                
                January 10, 2023
                     • 
 News/Media Release
 •  
Bookmark +

 In his role as Zoomcar's chief technology & product officer, Singhal will oversee the company's overall product strategy and engineering execution. Photo: Zoomcar India-based carsharing service Zoomcar, announced the appointment of Ashu Singhal as chief technology & product officer. Singhal will oversee the overall product strategy and engineering execution for the company. He is directly responsible for product vision & strategy, product design, product development, product marketing, user research, and analytics functions. “We are delighted to welcome Ashu Singhal to Zoomcar as the chief technology & product officer,"said Greg Moran, CEO and co-founder of Zoomcar in a statement. "With a career in technology that spans more than 15 years across different markets like India and Southeast Asia, Ashu brings incredible depth of experience in the consumer online marketplaces. In his new role Ashu will drive the technology & product vision to advance the car sharing experience on the Zoomcar marketplace, as the company continues to expand globally.“ Before joining Zoomcar, Singhal headed the Fulfilment and Marketplace team at Grab Holdings, an application-based transportation, grocery, food, and parcel delivery services platform. While at GRAB, he assisted in scaling its marketplace from 800,000 daily bookings to about 10 million daily bookings and managed supply, demand, pricing, and allocation platforms for all Grab businesses. Prior to this, he wore multiple hats in engineering and product management roles in some of the world’s top technology companies like Microsoft, Walmartlabs, and Ola. “I am very excited to be joining Zoomcar at this important stage of its growth," added Singhal. "I look forward to working closely with Zoomcar senior executives and leaders across functions and play an active role in assisting with Zoomcar’s business operations and growth to help the company reach new heights.” More News: Zoomcar to Go Public Staff 
                    Our editorial staff has selected and edited this news release for clarity and brand style because we believe it is relevant to our audience.
                 
                Comments are moderated and may not appear for 24 hours or more. Comments that include personal
                attacks or slurs, hate speech, demonstrably false information, excessive profanity, or that are thinly veiled promotions for a product, will not be approved.
              See all comments 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         The Car And Truck Fleet And Leasing Management Magazine Managing 10-50 Company Vehicles Serving EV Intenders & Professionals In Commercial & Public Fleets Managing Public Sector Vehicles & Equipment The Commercial Truck Industry's Most In-Depth Information Source Serving the Bus and Passenger Rail Industries for More than a Century Serving School Transportation Professionals in the U.S. and Canada 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         
            The secure and easy all-access connection to your content.
            Bookmarked content can then be accessed anytime on all of your logged in devices!
         Already a member? Log In