New Delhi, March 1 (IANS) Car sharing platform Zoomcar on Wednesday announced its partnership with Vistara, a joint venture of Tata group and Singapore Airlines, to become its self-drive partner. Customers can now avail a wide choice of self-drive cars from Zoomcar while booking through the Vistara website.  Vistara customers can now book their self-drive cars with Zoomcar and earn CV Points, the company said in a statement. As part of this association, Vistara customers can earn 5 CV Points for every Rs 100 spent when booking. “We are delighted to partner with Vistara to bring innovative, mobility solutions to our guests. As trusted travel partners for customers across the country, we see great synergies in this partnership,” said Greg Moran, CEO and Co-Founder Zoomcar. Club Vistara members enjoy up to 5 CV Points on every Rs 100 spent and additional discount of up to 15 per cent on their first booking with Zoomcar Rentals till March 31. Zoomcar is the leading marketplace for car sharing in emerging markets, with over 20,000 cars on its technology-driven platform across India, Southeast Asia and Egypt.  Founded in 2013 and headquartered in Bengaluru, Zoomcar employs over 300 people. –IANS na/ The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.