On August 24, 2023, Zoomcar and Tata Power EV Charging Solutions Ltd (TPEVCSL) announced that they had signed a contract to encourage the use of electric vehicles (EVs) in India. In a statement, Tata Power said that they will provide a "seamless" and user-friendly charging experience at their stations nationwide. At its EZ Charge stations, Tata Power offers EV charging points. In 350 cities, including multiple highways, it has over 50,000 home chargers, 4,370 public and semi-public charging stations, and 250 bus-charging stations. It plans to install 25,000 charging stations across India by 2028. Tata Power introduced an RFID card in July that enables EV owners to start charging by just tapping the card on an EZ charger anywhere in the nation. The collaboration, according to the company's statement, intends to promote Tata Power's EZ Charge points on the Zoomcar platform and will benefit current and prospective EV owners in addition to Zoomcar's current customers. These clients will have easy access to valuable insights on Tata Power's wide network of EZ Charge points all throughout the country, which will ease the EV charging procedure and eliminate the difficulties frequently associated with using the charging infrastructure. As a result, more people will put their electric vehicles on Zoomcar's platform, and more potential buyers will choose them. With more than 20,000 cars, Zoomcar is a marketplace for car sharing. According to Mr. Greg Moran, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Zoomcar, "Our car-sharing platform is perfectly suited for electric vehicles, and we expect to grow 50% of our platform by 2025. This mutual partnership is poised to create a comprehensive ecosystem that fulfils the evolving needs of EV enthusiasts." 
Disclaimer: This information has been collected through secondary research and IBEF is not responsible for any errors in the same.
 All material, information, data, images or content on this website is

                    subject to copyright or other applicable intellectual property laws and no part of it can be

                    reproduced in any form (including paper or electronic form) without prior written consent and

                    approval from IBEF. Infringements are subject to prosecution under the applicable laws. For consent

                    related queries and conditions, please write to info.brandindia@ibef.org Copyright © 2010-2024 India Brand Equity Foundation  
 Not a member