Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Monday January 30, 2023 , 2 min Read The net profit of ﻿Zoomcar﻿ tumbled 54% for the financial year ended March 31, 2022, despite a growth of over 100% in total income.  The company's employee expense increased to Rs 119 crore in FY22, from Rs 75 crore in FY21, the filing said. Of the total indebtedness of Rs 370 crore, including interest, the company paid Rs 214 crore in FY22, and Rs 156 crore is still pending.  The Bengaluru-headquartered company allows car owners to host their cars on its technology-driven platform and earn additional passive income. Founded in 2013, Zoomcar operates in 50 cities across India, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Egypt and employs over 300 people.   Currently, 90% of Zoomcar’s business comes from India. The company says it has processed over 7 million transactions in the country since inception. It claims to have over 20,000 cars on its platform across India, Southeast Asia, and Egypt.  Uri Levine, the co-founder of mobility unicorns Waze and Moovit, currently serves as the chairman of Zoomcar’s board of directors. Earlier this year, the company announced the appointment of Ashu Singhal as its chief technology and product officer.   Recently, the company announced a tie-up with homegrown electric vehicle (EV) charging network startup Statiq to accelerate EV-based travel in the country. This agreement enables EV owners to host their vehicles on Zoomcar and earn additional income.   Zoomcar is seeking a public listing via a merger with special purpose acquisition company Innovative International Acquisition Corp.  The directors of Zoomcar and Innovative have given the go-ahead for the business merger, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2023. The transaction values the combined company, which will be renamed Zoomcar Holdings, at $456 million.  Zoomcar raised $40 million in early 2018 and $92 million in November 2021. Edited by Swetha Kannan 1 2 Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! 3 [Startup Bharat] How Surat-based Alpino turned a Rs 5 lakh investment into a Rs 5 Cr turnover by selling peanut butter 4 With AI co-workers, PaaS firm E42.ai is making enterprises intelligent 5 The Indian dream:Vananam Building a conglomerate rooted in Bharat