There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Technology sector as 2 analysts just weighed in on Salesforce (CRM – Research Report) and Procore Technologies (PCOR – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Salesforce (CRM) In a report released yesterday, Patrick Walravens  from JMP Securities maintained a Buy rating on Salesforce, with a price target of $250.00. The company’s shares closed last Monday at $155.87. According to TipRanks.com, Walravens is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 0.8% and a 43.3% success rate. Walravens covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Zoom Video Communications, Qualtrics International, and ZoomInfo Technologies. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Salesforce with a $191.35 average price target, which is a 21.6% upside from current levels. In a report issued on January 9, Piper Sandler also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $171.00 price target.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Procore Technologies (PCOR) In a report released yesterday, Joe Goodwin  from JMP Securities maintained a Buy rating on Procore Technologies, with a price target of $70.00. The company’s shares closed last Monday at $55.14. According to TipRanks.com, Goodwin is a 1-star analyst with an average return of -3.8% and a 43.0% success rate. Goodwin covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Consensus Cloud Solutions, Duck Creek Technologies, and Tyler Technologies. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Procore Technologies with a $64.60 average price target, which is a 20.8% upside from current levels. In a report issued on January 9, Piper Sandler also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $60.00 price target.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Read More on CRM:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks