Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Tuesday January 31, 2023 , 4 min Read Hello,  After nine years, Manu Jain bids goodbye to Xiaomi as the global vice president of the group.   “Over the next few months, I will take some time off, before taking up my next professional challenge," Manu, who had earlier co-founded fashion ecommerce company Jabong, said in a statement.   The seasoned entrepreneur joined ﻿Xiaomi﻿ in 2014 and served in various roles at the consumer electronics company before he was appointed as the global VP in 2017.   Now, some good news.   PW (﻿Physics Wallah﻿) stands as a beacon of hope amid massive layoffs in the Indian startup ecosystem, especially in the edtech sector.   The Delhi-based edtech unicorn plans to hire 2,500 employees across verticals within the first quarter of 2023, which will include hiring faculty members and professionals for allied roles like business analysts, data analysts, counsellors, operations managers, batch managers, teachers, and many more.   With only a day to go, here’s what India Inc expects from Budget 2023.  ICYMI: Right before the Winter Solstice, photographer Goran Strand captured the most beautiful picture of the Sun. We bet you have never seen it before!   In today’s newsletter, we will talk about    Here’s your trivia for today: Who created the world’s first functional LEGO prosthetic arm?  Car-sharing marketplace ﻿Zoomcar﻿ clocked a net profit of Rs 74 crore for FY22, down from Rs 160 crore in the previous year. Meanwhile, its total income grew to Rs 230 crore from Rs 113 crore in FY21.  Key points:   <Funding Alert>  Startup: IndoSpace Amount: $205M Round: Equity  Startup: ﻿Enzene﻿ Biosciences Amount: $50M Round: Undisclosed  Startup: ﻿CapGrid﻿ Amount: $7M Round: Series A  Fariq Naushad and Previn Jacob Varghese are developing ﻿greenikk﻿ as a banana farmer-centric digital ecosystem. The startup aims to solve problems for every stakeholder—from banana farmers and processing units to commission agents, bulk B2B buyers, and fibre buyers.  Banana bonanza:   Started from a makeshift unit in Delhi in the 1970s, ﻿Shahi Exports﻿ is now an Rs 8,244 crore revenue company, employing a workforce of 115,000—68% of them women. Its founder, 86-year-old Sarla Ahuja, retired just two years ago after building India's largest export house.  Women power:    Who created the world’s first functional LEGO prosthetic arm?  Answer: David Aguilar (Andorra), aka "Hand Solo", in 2017.  We would love to hear from you! To let us know what you liked and disliked about our newsletter, please mail [email protected].   If you don’t already get this newsletter in your inbox, sign up here. For past editions of the YourStory Buzz, you can check our Daily Capsule page here.  1 2 Foxconn working on plans to set up battery energy storage system unit in India 3 Flipkart honours Rakhi crafters preserving India’s cultural legacy this Raksha Bandhan  4 Rare Rabbit raises Rs 150 Cr from A91 Partners, Nikhil Kamath-backed NkSquared, and others
 5 [YS Exclusive] Lightspeed set to lead $150M round in PhysicsWallah The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.