
                            No matching items found
                          No matching items found   Elon Musk poses for a photograph.   Online platform X could introduce a monthly fee for all users, its owner Elon Musk said Monday, citing the need to cut down on bots. The tech tycoon has made multiple changes since taking over the site for $44 billion in October last year, when it was known as Twitter. He has fired thousands of employees, introduced a paid premium option, cut content moderation and reinstated formerly banned accounts including that of former US president Donald Trump. He said in July the platform had lost roughly half its advertising revenue. Bots -- accounts run by computer programs rather than humans -- are common on X, where they can be used to artificially amplify political messages or racial hatred. During a talk with Musk on Monday, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu raised the question of online anti-Semitism, and how X could "prevent the use of bots -- armies of bots -- to replicate and amplify it." Musk replied that the company was "moving to having a small monthly payment for use of the X system." "It's the only way I can think of to combat vast armies of bots," he said. "Because a bot costs a fraction of a penny -- call it a tenth of a penny -- but if somebody even has to pay a few dollars, some minor amount, the effective cost of bots is very high. "And then you also have to get a new payment method every time you have a new bot." The conversation, which was broadcast on X, came as the Tesla tycoon is mired in a row with the Anti-Defamation League, a US-based Jewish organization. Agence France-Presse 
                                    Tesla shares traded above $420, more than a year after Elon Musk tweeted he had “funding secured” to take the electric car maker private at that price, only to later give up under investor pressure and regulatory concerns.
                                 
                                    Tesla’s quarterly profit has surpassed $1 billion for the first time thanks to the electric car pioneer’s ability to navigate through a pandemic-driven computer chip shortage that has caused major headaches for other automakers.
                                 
                                    Musk also said, “Franz throws steel ball at Cybertruck window right before launch. Guess we have some improvements to make before production haha.”
                                 
                                    As per Deadline, Franco and Musk – who appear on Heard’s witness list – have been dragged into the case after Depp accused them of having affairs with his ex-wife.
                                 
                                        Pakistan's high rate of marriages for underage girls had been inching lower in recent years, but after unprecedented floods in 2022, rights workers warn such weddings are now on the rise due to climate-driven economic insecurity.
                                     
                                        With greater hearing loss, the brain has to work overtime to interpret the garbled message. That uses up brain power. 
                                     
                                        Once at the delivery spot, tourists may scan a QR code with their mobile phones to place orders on a food delivery platform, and the supplies will be delivered by drones within five minutes.
                                     
                                        Sat on a chair above a small fire of smouldering twigs and herbs, Saba is one of a growing crowd of young urbanites who regularly enjoy the beauty treatment. 
                                     
 
