When a president decides to make an address from the Oval Office, you expect a certain significance.  A declaration of war. An emotional address about a national tragedy.  Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre nodded to that tradition, saying President Biden decided to make his first major address from there Friday night “because of the gravity of the situation.” Except there was nothing of substance or seriousness about BIden’s remarks. It was a purely political stunt that insulted the American people’s intelligence.  “We averted an economic crisis – an economic collapse,” Biden bragged. Did we? After pushing through three massive irresponsible spending bills, Biden had forced the country to again raise the debt limit.  Republicans successfully held out for some cuts to future expenditures, to prevent Biden’s progressive bureaucrats from going on another drunken bender. We suppose if you create a crisis yourself and then begrudgingly accept some common sense, then yes, “crisis averted.” But BIden’s still president, so the jury’s out. Why did this warrant a national address? It doesn’t! Much like his blood-red Philadelphia fearmongering, Biden bamboozled networks into carrying his stump speech. Then, having bragged about pushing the country deeper into debt, Biden said without irony that he didn’t have enough money!  He was going to make sure those dastardly rich folks paid more in tax.  Except increased funding for IRS enforcement means everyone faces a greater chance of being dinged for not paying enough. So get ready for an extra set of eyes on your return, no matter how much money you earn. How dare you shortchange his government?  They can waste money much better than you can! There was no news made.  No important piece of information shared.  It was a victory lap for something that shouldn’t be celebrated.  An unserious address by an unserious man in serious times.  We hope television executives are paying attention.  Next time Biden claims he has something important to say, stick with “Wheel of Fortune.”  Advertisement