Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     A reset is a quick way to fix a smartphone error, whether you use one of our favorite budget Android phones or a top-tier flagship. Android, Pixel, and iOS phones allow quick app resets, closing down software with one or two swipes. The settings that govern Wi-Fi connections and Bluetooth pairings can cause problems when they go wrong, which is why understanding the step-by-step process of resetting your device's network settings is important.
                         This guide shows how to reset the network settings on your Pixel, iOS, and Android mobile devices, as well as a few notes on what that process entails.
                         Resetting the network settings on your phone or tablet affects related services like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. Here's a breakdown of everything that happens when you reset your network.
                         Resetting network settings is one of the simplest ways to fix Wi-Fi issues on your phone. If your phone or tablet doesn't discover available devices or connect to a saved Wi-Fi hotspot, reset the network settings and try again. The trick removes all the saved Wi-Fi settings and passwords from your device. Before proceeding, check the saved Wi-Fi passwords on your phone and store them in a capable password manager.
                         Resetting network settings deletes the Bluetooth devices saved on your phone. You must reconnect your high-end wireless earbuds, headphones, smart car head unit, and smart speaker to your phone after resetting.
                         When you reset network settings on your phone, the system reverts cellular settings to default. You must select your cellular network preferences from the settings menu again.
                         Resetting network settings deletes saved VPN configurations on your phone. You must reconnect to your preferred VPN network.
                         The network reset doesn't affect your installed apps, photos, videos, or documents. You don't need to back up your Android phone or Apple iPhone before performing the steps.
                         Resetting network settings doesn't touch your applied wallpaper, lock screen settings, home screen setup, or other preferences.
     There are multiple ways to keep your data safe and sound                     Follow the steps below to reset network settings on an iPhone.
                         These steps work on iPhones and iPads running iOS and iPadOS 11 and later. If you use an older iOS version, type network in the Settings search bar to find it.
                         Most Android phone manufacturers use a static Settings app, so things should feel familiar. If you use a Google Pixel or Motorola Phone, the following steps allow you to reset your network settings.
                         The following tutorial uses Pixel screenshots, but the steps are similar on most Android mobile devices.
      Samsung One UI has a different Settings menu compared to stock Android. The steps to reset network settings differ on a Samsung Galaxy phone.
                         If you can't find the Reset network settings option on your Android phone, open your phone's Settings app and type network in the search box.
                         Reset the network settings on your phone when you frequently run into the following issues:
                         Most smartphone manufacturers offer options to reset all settings or to erase all data and restore the device to default in the general reset menu. Google includes the option to delete eSIMs and reset app preferences. Samsung lets you reset accessibility settings for features like Talkback, visibility, and hearing enhancements without affecting related keyboard and font size data. On an iPhone, you can reset mobile plans, location and privacy settings, keyboard dictionary, and home screen layout.
                         You'll find the Reset app preferences (reset all settings on iPhone) and Reset network settings options under the Reset menu on your phone. What's the difference between the two? When you reset all settings, the system resets all preferences for deactivated apps, app notifications, default applications for specific actions, background data restrictions for apps, and permission restrictions. Reset all settings when you experience notification delays, mobile data failure in apps, and other system malfunctions.
                         Resetting network settings only affects your phone's connections, like Wi-Fi, mobile data, and Bluetooth. You don't lose app data with either option.
     Give your beloved iPhone a fresh start                     If you have a connectivity-related issue, try a network reset. If that doesn't work, factory reset your phone. If neither helps, it may be time for an upgrade. Look for a good Android phone with solid 5G and LTE coverage.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved This thread is open for discussion. Be the first to post your thoughts.  Unlock hidden features and diagnose your Android smartphone with these secret codes! Bluetooth feels right at home on Android Material You has yet to live up to its full potential Google doesn’t feel like marketing Android anymore New sideloading rules still don't satisfy the DMA Deleting biometrics models for a good cause