Management Information Systems (MIS) is the application of information technology to meet organizational and managerial requirements that can result in business value. Hence, MIS students are trained to use computer technology to help businesses get the right information to the right people at the right time. In the undergraduate program, students learn how to collect, manipulate, transform, and present data to support organizational needs, including presentation on company websites. They also learn about cybersecurity and how to protect organizational data. The Business Analytics graduate program helps students learn to analyze huge volumes and a variety of data, including those available through social media, through new tools and methods, such as visualization and machine learning, in order to generate business insights. In general, be it the undergraduate or graduate program, MIS students are trained to become business detectives with good analytical, business, communication, and problem-solving skills in a computer-based environment Our faculty enjoy working with students and believe in experimental learning. Courses include hands-on learning and interaction with industry leaders. The capstone course is a mini internship where students work with a company on a guided project to analyze business needs and propose a technology-based solution. The MIS curriculum is developed in consultation with industry representatives.  VIEW CHECKSHEET A Management Information Systems student graduates with a Bachelor of Business Administration degree, or students can pursue an accelerated BBA and Master of Science degree in Management of Information Technology. Advanced degrees include Master of Business Administration and a Master of Science in Management of Information Technology. Students can also minor in MIS. Management Information Systems (MIS) students typically have interests in: Students will develop knowledge and skills in programming, database design and use, systems design, spreadsheet modeling and analysis, enterprise systems, project management, analytical programming, data analytics, visualization, data science and modeling, and cybersecurity. Course work will include hands-on experiences in working with technology. Students also will gain a good understanding of management principles and learn to work in a project team, understand business objectives, and decide on and develop technology solutions. Undergraduate program coursework includes a field project where students work with a real-world organization. At the culmination of the program, student will have acquired a good foundation and working knowledge of technologies, along with the ability to apply these skills to add value to organizations. The MIS Student Association (MISSA) is an active social and study group that is also a student chapter of the Association of Information Systems. Our faculty enjoy working with students and believe in experimental learning. Courses include hands-on learning and interaction with industry leaders. The capstone course is a mini internship where students work with a company on a guided project to analyze business needs and propose a technology-based solution. Visit the Steve Dolman Family Study Abroad Office webpage to learn more about the many courses and locations available to business students. The MIS division, through its Center for MIS Studies, has established strong relationships with many business organizations and federal agencies who closely collaborate with MIS faculty and students. They offer suggestions on curriculum, support faculty teaching and research activities, and provide scholarships and fellowships to MIS majors. Visit the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics website to explore the median pay for jobs you can pursue with this degree.  The Michael F. Price College of Business has been accredited since 1926 by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Price College is ranked in the top 12 percent of AACSB International’s accredited undergraduate programs by U.S. News and World Report. Michael F. Price College of Business
Phone: (405) 325-0791
Email: radhika@ou.edu
Website: price.ou.edu/mis   