There’s no place like home. Tonight at 7:30 p.m., the Eastside football team will play a home football game at Citizens Field for the first time since a 28-9 win against Inlet Grove (Riviera Beach) all the way back in Week 1. Well, kind of. Mainstreet does not have a paywall, but pavement-pounding journalism is not free. Join your neighbors who make this vital work possible. Eastside is coming off of back-to-back losses on the road, although technically they played on their home field in a ‘road’ game against Buchholz. They were shutout 35-0 against the Class 4S Bobcats on Sept. 8, followed by a 34-7 loss at 2S Bradford (Starke) two weeks ago. Both of those teams were state semifinalists last year. Following an open date, the Rams (2-2) look to get back in the win column as they host North Marion (Citra) in a key Class 2S-District 7 game. Eastside is hoping to get the offense going again under junior quarterback Adrian Curtis. The P.K. Yonge transfer threw seven touchdown passes with no interceptions in his first two games, including a 72-yard scoring pass to Chris Bishop and an 80-yard touchdown pass to Ta’Joun Waldon in a 35-0 win at Keystone Heights for a 2-0 start. Despite a losing record, the visiting Colts (1-2) defeated Santa Fe (Alachua), 31-17, on Sept. 15, meaning a win tonight would give North Marion the district title outright. However, an Eastside victory tonight, followed by a win at Santa Fe on Oct. 27, would give the Rams their second straight district title. Last year, Eastside won its first district title in 10 years. In their two losses, the Colts scored just 12 total points at Forest (Ocala) and at Suwannee (Live Oak). They are averaging just 14.3 points per game, while Eastside is averaging 17.5 ppg. Eastside won both meetings against North Marion last year, including a 27-14 win in the first round of the Class 2S state playoffs. We’ll have live audio coverage of the game online at Mainstreet Daily News beginning at 7:15 p.m. with Marty Pallman (Play-by-play) and Cam Parker (Color) on the call. Our radio broadcast this week on 106.9 FM “I am Country” is Menendez (St. Augustine) at Gainesville. This is a Class 3S-District 4 game and a must-win game for both teams.  Visiting Menendez is 0-1 in league play following a 44-6 loss at defending district champion St. Augustine two weeks ago and GHS is 0-1 after a 35-14 loss at Clay (Green Cove Springs) on Sept. 15. The Falcons (1-4) start a freshman at quarterback in Cash Downey, who has completed just 49.5% of his passes and has thrown four interceptions, along with four touchdowns. They have also struggled running the football and are averaging just 2.9 yards per rush. It’s Homecoming this week for the Purple Hurricanes, who snapped a 15-game losing streak last Thursday. The Hurricanes scored 28 unanswered points to defeat visiting Santa Fe, 49-21, to give GHS alum Ian Scott his first win as head coach. It was a big game for cornerback turned quarterback Kane Smith. Smith finished four touchdowns as was recognized as both the Sonic Drive-In Player of the Game and the Pavlik Orthodontics Athlete of the Week. It was the first win for GHS (1-4) since a 28-10 win against rival Eastside at Citizens Field on Nov. 5, 2021. The host Hurricanes look to make it two in a row, including a win in their district opener. They are improving, scoring just 41 points in their first four games and surpassing that total in one game last week. Defense will be the key. GHS is giving up an average of 32 points per game, while Menendez is allowing 25.8 ppg. Two key district games and we’ll have ‘live’ audio coverage of both, plus recaps on our website. Thursday, 7:15 p.m. (PREGAME) – High School Football, 7:30 p.m. (Kickoff) North Marion (Citra) at Eastside ‘Live’ & ‘archived’ AUDIO: https://www.mainstreetdailynews.com/sports/live-stream/ Join Marty Pallman (Play-by-play) and Cam Parker (Color) for this Alachua County vs. Marion County showdown and key district game. If the visiting Colts (1-2, 1-0) win they would capture the 2S-District 7 title. If the Rams (2-2, 0-0) win, they can clinch the district title at Santa Fe (Alachua) on Oct. 27. Friday, 6:30 p.m. (PREGAME) – High School Football, 7 (KICKOFF)  Menendez (St. Augustine) at Gainesville Radio:  “I am Country” 106.9 FM Gainesville ‘Live’ audio:  https://streamdb6web.securenetsystems.net/cirrusencore/WPLL Join Mainstreet Daily News Sports Director Mike Ridaught (Play-by-play), former Gator football player Hank Rone (Color), and Aiden Wacksman (Pregame, Halftime, Postgame) for all the action. It’s Homecoming for the Hurricanes, who snapped a 15-game losing streak last Thursday with a win against Santa Fe. 
                                                                            Mike Ridaught is sports director for Mainstreet Daily News. Mike hosts a weekly high school sports show at Sonic Drive-In from August - May and does play-by-play for a Game-of-the Week on 106.9 FM “I Am Country" during football season. He teaches a play-by-play class at the University of Florida. He does play-by-play for the Cal Ripken World Series in Branson, Mo., in August. Mike is also founder of The Prep Zone.                                                                         