Crimson Tide, the Tunbridge Wells-based creator of the mpro5 enterprise app, has announced a new NHS contract win. The contract builds on a recent previous contract with the NHS which will see the implementation of its app to help the NHS Trust save money and become more efficient, with the newest contract win adding Internet of Things sensors which will enable more effective use of the Trust’s staff and facilities. Added to the initial contract, the new, 36-month approximately £300,000 contract takes the full value to more than £500,000 across a three-year term. Read more - Kent-based Crimson Tide secures major retail contract The announcement comes following a period of success for the company, which has seen four of its long-term clients renewing their long-term contracts and adding more users or use cases. By the end of their new contracts, all four clients will have been mpro5 subscribers for more than a decade, with a combined total of more than £650,000 of secured contracted revenue. Chairman Barrie Whipp commented: "We are very pleased to add mpro5's sensor driven actions to our initial contract with this NHS Trust, which we believe will drive direct savings and improvements across its estate. “Our goal is to work with the Trust to establish a repeatable series of processes and procedures that drive compliance and efficient use of staff and facilities. As can be seen from our recent renewals, which demonstrate a wide range of use cases, our goal is to ensure our clients trust us for the long term and use mpro5 to provide an increasing range of solutions." Read more - Bicester’s Transense Technologies secures new development project Sam is the Regional Editor of Biz News, responsible for both Hampshire and Dorset.   A new recruit to journalism, Sam started writing for the Business Magazine as a freelancer in May of 2022 after completing his degree in English at University College London. His passion for local businesses and ability to tell a story soon caught the attention of the publication’s management team and have led to his meteoric rise.   Sam, who lives in central Reading, takes a particular interest in technology, gaming and food and drink, having been a chef before starting his degree.