by Railway-News Published9 Feb 2023
 

Tags 
Condition Monitoring Digitalisation DuosTech

 

Suppliers 
Duos Technologies, Inc.

 Duos Technologies Launches Targeted Media Program to Expand Global Opportunities Company Showcasing AI Solutions in International Industry Publication Railway-News  Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (“Duos” or the “Company”) (Nasdaq: DUOT), through its operating subsidiary Duos Technologies, Inc., a provider of machine vision and artificial intelligence that analyzes fast moving trains and trucks, today announced that the Company is now showcasing its solutions internationally in Railway-News, a specialist digital publisher for the global rail market. UK-based Railway-News has over 450,000 unique web users and a combined social media follower base of over 70,000. The Company’s objective is to bring greater awareness to its AI solutions in the global rail market, expanding on Duos’ historically domestic approach. The Company will be initially showcasing its offerings in the Railway-News online magazine and is currently in the Featured Supplier position on pages focused on Data and Monitoring, Train Overhaul Maintenance and Refurbishment, and Inspection and Monitoring Equipment. “As we expand our opportunities beyond the North American rail market, we plan to employ additional programs to support greater awareness of our AI and other solutions in key international regions. We are already working with a number of prospective partners in Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia, where we’ve seen strong initial interest for our technology. Our engagement with Railway-News should help to build on this foundation to make further inroads in these markets that have strong demand for our growing AI catalog and inspection systems.” To learn more about Duos on the Railway-News platform, click here. To stay up to date on the Company’s most recent developments or to learn more about the Duos story and its revolutionary technology platforms, be sure to follow here or sign up for email alerts here. For more information please contact [email protected] or visit the Company’s website and social media channels: Website, LinkedIn, Twitter. This article was originally published by Duos Technologies Inc. 
Duos Technologies Group, Inc. held a press conference on June 18th, highlighting key developments in its business strategy.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced it will hold a press conference to discuss major developments that will expand its market reach.
 
Duos Technologies has entered into a three-year agreement allowing CPKC to use Duos-developed Artificial Intelligence Solutions.
 
A new patent for RIP® technology confirms Duos as intellectual property leader for high-speed scanning of freight and passenger rolling stock.
 
Duos Technologies has announced that it will provide maintenance and technical services as part of an AI subscription agreement.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc has announced the award of a new patent, "Use of Artificial Intelligence to Detect Defects in Trains and Method to Use."
 
Duos Technologies has reported that in 2023 the Company’s Railcar Inspection Portal technology performed more than 8,500,000 railcar scans.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced a strategic move aimed at revolutionising rail safety with a $2.4 million subscription and services agreement.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. will be presenting "Technology & Human Capital – Not a Zero-Sum Game" at Railway Interchange 2023.
 
Duos Technologies Ltd now has 13 Railcar Inspection Portals (“rip®” or “RIP”) in operation with four major railroads in North America.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has issued a statement highlighting significant upgrades to its centraco® and truevue360™ systems.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc has implemented its first subscription services agreement with a passenger transit operator.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced that it will be a featured sponsor in Railway Age’s “Rail Insights 2023” virtual conference.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has released its latest key railcar AI detection model for use with the Company’s Railcar Inspection Portal solution.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced an award of $1.9 million for the enhancement of a planned RIP system in the passenger transport sector.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced the release of two new passenger railcar AI detection models for use with the company’s RIP solution.
 
Duos Technologies has secured contract modifications worth an additional $1.1 million in upgrades to a new system for an existing customer.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc.'s Railcar Inspection Portal is now ready for full-scale deployment across the North American Rail Network.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has highlighted how its Railcar Inspection Portal can be customised to address specific applications.
 
Duos Technologies has been featured on WJXT News4JAX for its work to enhance railroad safety with its railcar inspection portal.
 
Duos Technologies, Inc. has announced that it now has 30 of its AI models in operation for a Class 1 customer location in Mexico.
 
Duos Technologies Group, Inc. has achieved a 100% renewal rate of its recurring revenue contracts throughout the full year 2022.
 
Duos Technologies has announced the release of six new AI detection models for use with the Company's Railcar Inspection Portal solution.
 
Duos Technology's Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP) technology performed over seven million comprehensive railcar scans in 2022.
 Use the form opposite to get in touch with Duos Technologies, Inc. directly to discuss any requirements you might have.  





 We'd love to send you the latest news and information from the world of Railway-News. Please tick the box if you agree to receive them.
 I agree to receive communications from Railway-News.
 For your peace of mind here is a link to our Privacy Policy.
 By submitting this form, you consent to allow Railway-News to store and process this information.
 
  We love trains. You love trains. Sign up to our weekly newsletter to have all the latest global industry news calling at your inbox.
 You’ll also get our quarterly eMagazine: more trains, but with a shiny cover! Find out what industry suppliers are up to and read in-depth editorials.
 




 I agree to receive communications from Railway-News.
 By subscribing you agree to our Privacy Policy.
 
