ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT CJK Group Inc. continued its pattern of growth with acquisitions in September. CJK Group Inc., headquartered in Brainerd, represents one of the country’s largest printing and publishing services, reporting it is continuing to grow both organically and through acquisitions. CJK is an international portfolio of print, publishing services, and technology/information solutions companies. CJK Group includes the Sheridan family of print companies, which provide a wide array of solutions from full-service book, magazine, journal, catalog, and commercial print. CJK recently acquired select business assets of Joe Christensen Inc. in Lincoln, Nebraska and Worzalla in Stevens Point, Wisconsin. ADVERTISEMENT Joe Christensen, a family-owned company since 1933 that specializes in the printing of law reviews and law journals, made the decision to transition out of the law review and law journal business and entrusted the transition of its publication work to Sheridan, effective immediately. This body of work represents over 300 publications, some of the nation’s top law reviews among them. Sheridan has been a significant provider to the industry as well, with over 350 law publications currently being produced in the Sheridan Pennsylvania facility. “Acquiring the law review and law publication assets of Joe Christensen, Inc. is indeed an honor for Sheridan, as we look to be the leading publication services provider to this esteemed market,” said Chris Kurtzman, CEO of CJK Group, in a news release. “Over the last two decades, we’ve devoted many efforts and developed streamlined solutions to serve this community and are looking forward to not only delivering on but exceeding the expectations of our new customers.” Adding to its Sheridan Family of Print Facilities, CJK Group announced in September that an agreement has been completed to acquire the business of Worzalla. This acquisition will bring additional capacity to its Sheridan division’s printing operations and the facility will be renamed Sheridan Worzalla. “Worzalla has a tremendous market reputation and a well-defined niche in the Children’s and Trade book publishing markets,” Kurtzman said. “The addition of the Worzalla operation ADVERTISEMENT expands the spectrum of printing services for Sheridan’s clients, nicely augmenting our current strengths in the Trade, Education, Academic, Religious, and Automotive publishing markets.” The newly named Sheridan Worzalla facility is now the third Sheridan location in Wisconsin. Founded in 1892, Worzalla has over 130 years of experience in creating high-quality books for publishers around the world. The operation is housed in a 365,000 square foot facility and employs approximately 340 employees. “With CJK Group’s ongoing support, Sheridan Worzalla will be well positioned to continue to grow,” said Jim Fetherston, president and CEO of Worzalla. “In the rapidly consolidating domestic book manufacturing world, becoming a key part of a family-held market leader is a terrific fit for the future of our company and all employees. Importantly, the people of Worzalla are joining an organization that will continue our commitment to highest level quality and support that our customers have come to expect from us.” In March, CJK Group acquired McNaughton & Gunn in Saline, Michigan, adding to its Sheridan Family of print facilities. The acquisition was expected tol bring additional capacity to Sheridan’s printing operations and will be renamed Sheridan Saline. Founded in 1975 on the principle that “people make a difference,” McNaughton & Gunn has been continuously producing books for publishers and self-publishers around the world. Many of its original customers print there to this day because the company stayed true to their core value of delivering quality books that meet their customers' individual needs. “McNaughton & Gunn has long held a highly respected place in the print market, building lasting relationships with its clients and setting high standards for environmental stewardship,” Kurtzman stated. “We see this as a perfect fit with our values and practices and are pleased to welcome the McNaughton & Gunn employees into the Sheridan family.” “I am so proud of all that the McNaughton & Gunn team has achieved,” said Julie McFarland, retiring President of McNaughton & Gunn, whose father was one of the company’s five ADVERTISEMENT founding partners. “I am confident they will continue their success with the support of CJK Group and the combined talent of the Sheridan team.” At the core, CJK Group stated its strategy is investment in employees, equipment, technologies, and thoughtful acquisitions that mirror the same principles and values that all CJK Group companies possess. Sheridan print facilities are located in Brainerd, Brimfield, Ohio, Chelsea, Michigan, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Hanover, New Hampshire, Hanover, Pennsylvannia, Madison, WisconsinI, Random Lake, Wisconsin, Saline, Michigan, Stevens Point, Wisconsin, and Versailles, Kentucky. KnowledgeWorks Global Ltd. offers content services such as editorial, peer review, management consulting, learning solutions, and online hosting to the journal, educational publishing, and eLearning markets. KnowledgeWorks Global Ltd. content service facilities are located in Lawrence, Kansas, and Richmond, Virginia, in the US; Chennai, Mumbai, and New Delhi in India; and London in the United Kingdom. ADVERTISEMENT Tweddle Group serves the original equipment manufacturing industry with custom support solutions and is headquartered in Clinton Township, Michigan; with European headquarters in Italy and Belgium, and facilities in Chennai and Mumbai, India. For more information, visit 
    
      www.cjkgroup.com
     ADVERTISEMENT