Our tech buying advice and product picks are required reading if you want to ace your classes. Advertisement Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Unleash your child's inner artist. We've put together a list of the best cameras we've tested for kids of all ages and have tips for getting them started with digital photography. Public Wi-Fi networks aren't always safe, and college towns are full of them. These are the best VPNs for protecting your privacy, whether it's on campus, at a coffee shop, or at home. NY's Lake Shore is in the midst of a state-mandated switch to electric buses. We hop aboard to get the next generation's take on their new rides and try to unravel the political pushback. Microsoft 365 is not your only choice for word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation software. Whether you want local or cloud-based apps, our reviews of the best office suites help you choose the one for your needs. Gearing up for the school year? Here's all the tech we recommend for students, hand-picked by PCMag's in-house experts. Adding a networked printer to your PC is usually a cinch, but what if Windows just won't play nice with it or can't find it at all? Here are a few quick solutions. These cases protect your kids' portable classroom and digital entertainment center. Whether you've got the latest M3-powered Apple MacBook Pro or MacBook Air laptop, keep it safe and stylin' with a featherweight sleeve, a fancy leather pouch, or a rugged case. Whether you're looking to get ahead in your schoolwork, improve a business skill, edit video, or even master French pastry, the top online learning sites we've tested can help. Jot down your thoughts, save images of things you need to remember, and keep it all at your fingertips on all your devices with one of the top-rated note-taking apps we've tested. Apple, Google, and Microsoft offer robust solutions that balance kids' freedom with parents' ability to monitor them online. We help you find the right parental control app to keep your kids safe online, for free. Learning ASL is different from learning orally spoken and written languages. We've vetted the top ASL sites to help you start signing today. Parenting styles run the gamut and so do the features in parental control and monitoring utilities. These services can help your child navigate the internet safely. The study app Quizlet is an excellent tool for learners of all ages who need to memorize information. Some students are already back in class, but you can still take advantage of these back to school savings. Your purchase also supports global learning via UNICEF. Save on the tech you need to succeed in the school year ahead. Every good student needs a supercharged Lenovo laptop in their backpack. Snag an Apple device for less with these back-to-school sales. From instructional videos to live one-on-one help, often 24/7, these online services can help you get ahead academically. And they're usually less expensive than an IRL tutor. Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.