A riveting new trailer has been released for the upcoming limited mystery series A Murder at the End of the World, starring Emma Corrin (The Crown), Clive Owen (Children of Men, American Crime Story), Harris Dickinson (Triangle of Sadness, Where the Crawdads Sing), and Brit Marling (The OA). The series is created by Marling with her partner Zal Batmanglij. The pair created the Netflix series The OA, which is one of my favorite series of the last decade, but unfortunately was cut short, so it’s cool to see them back to tell another story. “The seven-episode limited series stars Corrin as Darby Hart, a Gen Z amateur sleuth and tech-savvy hacker, who, along with eight other guests are invited by a reclusive billionaire (Owen) to participate in a retreat at a remote and dazzling location. When one of the other guests is found dead, Darby must use all of her skills to prove it was murder against a tide of competing interests and before the killer takes another life.” The series also stars Alice Braga, Joan Chen, Raúl Esparza, Jermaine Fowler, Ryan J. Haddad, Pegah Ferydoni, Javed Khan, Louis Cancelmi, Edoardo Ballerini, Britian Seibert, Christopher Gurr, Kellan Tetlow, Daniel Olson and Neal Huff. Check out the trailer below, and watch A Murder at the End of the World when it premieres on FX on Hulu on November 14th.  I’m Jessica Fisher! I love being a wife and mom, and I love movies and TV. I’m a murderino, and love to travel and write. I love Disney and the beach, and being awesome. My favorite things to geek out on are the podcast My Favorite Murder, The Handmaid’s Tale, Mindhunter, Cobra Kai, The Wonder Years, and The Walking Dead. My favorite movies are About Time, 50/50, pretty much anything with Jason Segel and/or Paul Rudd, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Dirty Dancing, and so many others. I love the books Little Women and Harry Potter, and love stand-up comedy. I love writing for GeekTyrant! All names, trademarks and images are copyright their respective owners.   ///   Copyright / DMCA Notice
Copyright © 2008-2024, GeekTyrant Industries, LLC. All rights reserved.
Cookie Declaration  ///   Privacy Policy
Links monetized by VigLinkCustom Code and Design by, Free Reyes