While travel deals may be harder to find ahead of the busy summer travel season, Airbnb is leaning into room rentals as a budget-friendly option. The vacation rental platform is launching Airbnb Rooms, a new category for private rooms in someone else’s home, the company announced Wednesday. “With Airbnb Rooms, we’re getting back to the idea that started it all – back to our founding ethos of sharing,” Brian Chesky, the company’s co-founder and CEO, said in a news release. “Airbnb Rooms are often more affordable than hotels, and they’re the most authentic way to experience a city. This is the soul of Airbnb.” Is airport lounge access worth it? Here's our airline reporter's take Coral reefs are dying: What one Hawaii resort is doing to help Over 80% of private rooms listed on the platform worldwide cost less than $100 per night in 2022, with an average nightly rate of $67. The company also revealed upgraded “type of place” and price filters on Wednesday, aimed at making it easier to see the average price of various kinds of accommodations and swap between options. While room rentals in homes are not a new offering for the platform, listings in the Airbnb Rooms category feature a Host Passport, which can give guests some added intel on who they’ll be staying with. Users can see details hosts opt to share about themselves like what the hosts do for work, where they went to school and other information. Each listing will also “clearly indicate” whether bedroom doors have a lock and show if there are private or shared bathrooms, according to the release. Prospective guests can also see whether people aside from the host will be there at the same time. The listings in the category all include access to shared common areas like living rooms and backyards, as well. Travelers can book Airbnb Rooms via the company’s website and mobile app, by clicking on “Rooms” while exploring accommodations. In addition to Airbnb Rooms, the company introduced over 50 other features and upgrades to price transparency, user interface and more, based on guest feedback. All users can now see the full price with any fees - before taxes - throughout the process, including in search results, on listing pages and in maps. Airbnb began rolling that feature out last year for some guests in countries without existing price display requirements, following complaints of hidden fees. Win a free river cruise: American Queen Voyages is giving away a 9-day Mississippi River sailing Why are travel refunds taking so long? Here are some tips to get your money back Users can also see checkout instructions prior to booking and will receive a reminder before the end of their stay. They can provide feedback on those instructions, and listings with “repeated low ratings from unreasonable chores” – another pain point for guests – will be taken off the platform, Airbnb said in Wednesday’s release. Other new features include improved maps, a pay-over-time option in partnership with Klarna for guests in the U.S. and Canada, and an instant rebooking credit for the majority of guests if a host cancels within 30 days of arrival. Nathan Diller is a consumer travel reporter for USA TODAY based in Nashville. You can reach him at ndiller@usatoday.com. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Airbnb launches Airbnb Rooms listing category for budget travel New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.