Chris Hero is reportedly set to work for All Elite Wrestling on a trial basis. Fightful Select reports that Hero is being looked at as a potential name to join the company in a backstage capacity, and he is scheduled to be backstage at the AEW Collision premiere on June 17. In doing so, he would be working with the company on a trial basis. Hero has not wrestled since his WWE release in 2020. He recently stated that he is not retired, as he is instead waiting for the right situation. As of this writing, it’s unclear whether there are plans for Hero to wrestle in AEW. WrestleZone will provide more information as it becomes available. The post Report: Chris Hero Set To Be Backstage At 6/17 AEW Collision, Working On Trial Basis appeared first on Wrestlezone. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.