Quantum provides natural gas virtual pipeline trailers to CORE LAKE FOREST, Calif. (PRWEB) February 01, 2023   Quantum Fuel Systems (Quantum), a fully integrated alternative energy company, has been selected by Permian Global, Inc. d/b/a CORE Automated Fueling Solutions (CORE), to deliver six of its industry-leading virtual pipeline trailers for natural gas. The trailers will be delivered to CORE, a leading CNG provider in West Texas, in Q3 2023.  With this contract, Quantum will provide CORE with its VPLite45/40 trailers, which have an industry-leading gaseous capacity of approximately 472,000 standard cubic feet and weigh less than 59,000 pounds fully loaded. The trailers are certified for use in the U.S. and are the leading choice for customers needing a smaller, lighter trailer that is easily maneuvered in tight areas. CORE will utilize the trailers in their work with Manticore Fuels, LLC (Manticore Fuels), an affiliate company that is one of largest frac fuel providers in the West Texas market. "We are excited to continue and expand our relationship with CORE and Manticore in 2023," said Steve Toelke, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Infrastructure at Quantum. "It's always an honor to be a part of a customer's growth and success. Having CORE repeatedly select our trailers to support their extensive mobile, low carbon energy distribution fleet shows the true value of our products and our commitment to customers." "CORE is expanding to meet the burgeoning needs of our customers for reliable, safe, and lower carbon energy," said Brent Bruner, Senior Vice President, Natural Gas and Manufacturing at CORE. "Our two-year relationship with Quantum has enabled us to build one of the largest fleets in West Texas that can deliver compressed natural gas to our customers in the region. The additional Quantum VPLite45/40 trailers will further increase the capacity of our network to ensure that our oil and gas, and industrial customers in West Texas receive a safe, secure supply of low carbon energy they can depend on." About Quantum Fuel Systems LLC
Quantum Fuel Systems LLC is engineering the future of alternative fuel storage by designing, developing and bringing innovative transport trailers, and industry-leading Type 4 cylinders for hydrogen, CNG and RNG to market. Quantum is at the forefront of the industry with decades of experience in gaseous fuel storage and systems solutions. Learn more at http://www.qtww.com About Permian Global, Inc. d/b/a CORE Automated Fueling Solutions
CORE is a leading fuel technology and software solutions provider for the energy and industrial sectors. CORE is a market leader in Automated Fueling Solutions and has a rapidly growing presence in CNG Fueling Services in the greater Permian Basin region. Learn more at http://www.corefueling.com About Manticore Fuels, LLC
Manticore Fuels is a leading fueling services provider in West Texas and New Mexico providing "white glove" diesel & CNG fueling services, automation services, and rental services to the energy sector. Learn more at http://www.manticorefuels.com  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/2023/2/prweb19144140.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.