Hollywood may be taking another stab at a Tomb Raider production, but this time for the small screen. The Hollywood Reporter sources say Amazon is creating a Tomb Raider TV series for Prime Video, with Phoebe Waller-Bridge (of Fleabag fame) set to be an executive producer and write the script. It's not certain who would star, but we wouldn't count on movie stars Angelina Jolie or Alicia Vikander reprising the role of Lara Croft. The show is reportedly still in the development stage. We've asked Amazon for comment. A collaboration like this wouldn't be surprising, at least. Amazon is publishing the next Tomb Raider game, and Waller-Bridge previously struck a three-year deal with Amazon that includes projects like the novel adaptation Sign Here. Sources for The Reporter claim Amazon was "aggressive" in pursuing a deal renewal late last year. The rumor comes as game-based TV shows have their moment in the spotlight. HBO's The Last of Us has already been successful enough to get a second season. Sony, meanwhile, is prepping God of War, Gran Turismo and Horizon titles for Netflix and Prime Video. A Tomb Raider series would bolster Amazon's game-themed catalog and help it compete against rivals like Netflix, which already has hits like the League of Legends offshoot Arcane. Amazon also hasn't been shy about chasing after potential blockbusters. The company reportedly spent $1 billion on The Lord of Rings: The Rings of Power, for instance. While a Tomb Raider show isn't likely to be as lavish, Waller-Bridge's involvement suggests Amazon is eager for a hit. Amazon struggled to breach the top streaming charts last year — this might give it better ammunition against Netflix successes like Stranger Things. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Microsoft righted an age-old “wrong” (at least for those who geek out about disk formatting) earlier this week. With its latest Windows 11 Insider Canary Preview Build, the company increased the maximum FAT32 partition size limit from 32GB to 2TB when using the command line. San Francisco City Attorney David Chiu vowed to prosecute 50 defendants in a new complaint over AI undressing sites. Texas Instruments is the latest recipient of CHIPS Act funds. The 2022 law will award TI $1.6 billion in grants. Meta’s decision to shut down CrowdTangle, an analytics tool that was an “invaluable” resource to the research community, is drawing fresh scrutiny from European Union regulators. This week's best tech deals include the Sony WH-1000XM4 headphones for $198, the Nintendo Switch Lite for $159 and a bunch of pre-order offers for Google's new Pixel 9 phones. Meta sends Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas VR to the trash heap. The Quest remake is on hold indefinitely. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.