Sunny to partly cloudy. High 91F. Winds WSW at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Mostly clear. Low 73F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:04 am    Halloween is a couple weeks away, and the weather is finally starting to reflect that fact. There are plenty of fun activities to get up to this weekend with the whole family. Celebrate the SC Stingrays' opening night hockey game with an Oktoberfest party. Head to the Soundwave Monster Mash, something every comic-lover will appreciate. Enjoy hearing about some of the hauntings around Charleston at Wild Dunes Resort. Or, bundle up and enjoy fall festivities at Magnolia Plantation. Cool Ray skates at the first South Carolina Stingrays home game of the season in Oct. 2022 at the North Charleston Coliseum. The season kicks off this weekend with a Hock-toberfest. File/Staff Don your dirndls or lederhosen and head on over to the North Charleston Coliseum, 5001 Coliseum Drive, to celebrate the Stingrays Opening Night at Hock-toberfest. Dress up and come out early for the pregame party from 4–6 p.m. on Oct. 21. Enjoy live music, beer, food and games before the puck drops at 6:05 p.m. At the game, the first 2,500 fans will receive a 2023–24 season magnet schedule, courtesy of MUSC Health. Free parking. Tickets range from $19 to $36. Get yours now at stingrayshockey.com.  Soundwave Comics in Summerville is hosting a party and costume contest to celebrate the release of DC's "Monster Mash" in "Justice League vs. Godzilla vs. Kong." File/Wade Spees/Staff Come out to Summerville and celebrate the release of DC's "Monster Mash" in "Justice League vs. Godzilla vs. Kong" at this free, family-friendly, all-ages event. Come dressed to win the costume contest prizes from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Oct. 21 at Soundwave Comics, 1400 Boone Hill Road. It's your chance to meet Marvel, DC, and Image comics writer Chuck Brown, who will be signing copies of his work, as well as other comic artists. Enjoy the Halloween-themed comics giveaway, local artisans and vendors and food truck. You can find more information at bit.ly/3ZYSk4C. Spooky season is finally here. Down on the North Beach, 5757 Palm Blvd., the Wild Dunes Resort at Isle of Palms will help you get your beach scare on at 7 p.m. on Oct. 20, 21 and 27 and at 8 p.m. on Oct. 28, (which is the final show). Experience this spook-tacular collection of captivating stories that will immerse listeners in the rich and haunted history of South Carolina's Lowcountry. From forgotten pirates to resilient spirits, embark on a dark journey that uncovers the secrets hidden beneath the starlit skies and flickering bonfires way down South. Visit bit.ly/48XkMbs to learn more, and purchase tickets at $45 each. Enjoy the chill in the air and the beautiful scenery at the Beauti-Fall Festival from 10:30 a.m.-2 p.m. on Oct. 21 at Magnolia Plantation, 3550 Ashley River Road. The fest will be fun for the whole family, with a variety of activities from face-painting to roasting your own s'mores. Check out some local vendors as well while listening to live tunes from Uncle Gary’s Band. The festival is free with admission to the gardens. Basic garden entry tickets are $29 for adults, $15 for ages 6-12 and $5 for ages 5 and under. Tickets can be purchased at the gate or online via magnoliaplantation.com/magnolia-events/fallfest. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 Reach Caitlin and Amber at 843-937-5581. Quick Response and Public Safety Reporter Caitlin Bell is a breaking news and courts reporter for The Post
and Courier Charleston. She is a graduate of the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte.
 Caitlin Bell is a breaking news and courts reporter for The Post
and Courier Charleston. She is a graduate of the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte. News Clerk  Holy City Halloween LLC leased the former Meddin Bros. Meat Packing House for a short-term haunted house in downtown Charleston while HBO's "Righteous Gemstones" show leases a vacant Rivers Ave. store.  Read moreFormer Charleston slaughterhouse becomes haunted venue; TV "church" leases Gas Lite space The Summerville Orchestra’s 2024-25 season kicks off on Oct. 4 with a program that highlights music’s capacity to stir emotion. The new season, “Power of Music,” features five performances at the Summers Corner Performing Arts Center with music by famed composers Antonín Dvořák, George Gershwin and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.  Read more'Power of Music': Summerville Orchestra to feature 'Pirates of Caribbean,' 'Nutcracker' this season Encouraging patrons to dress in "gothic academia" clothing and offering up theatrical readings of some of the horror genre's vintage favorites, this traveling show blends classic Gothic literature and mixology for an enthralling evening. Read moreGothic Authors Cocktail Club mixes horror stories, craft cocktails in Charleston This weekend in the Holy City, you may find yourself trying new things or sticking to the classics. Stomp grapes at the 20th annual Grape Stomp Fest or see "Flow: Cycles in Music, Water and Nature," a New Muse Concert at the South Carolina Aquarium. Bring a friend to this year's Sober Fest, keep it classic and ride over to Moncks Corner for a Car & Bike Show or support the Haha's for a Cause event at Wit's End. Read moreMy Charleston Weekend: Grape stomping, car shows and concerts Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale