Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Join Legit.ng Telegram channel! Never miss important updates! Controversial Nollywood actor Yul Edochie has caused a stir online with his latest advice to fans.  Recently, the actor took to his Instagram to write a lengthy note on the best way to live. According to him, life is not meant to be enjoyed but experienced. He added that there will be good and bad days, but people should not blame God for anything they see. In the letter to his fans, the actor said that every human being is supposed to accept their challenges and look for ways to overcome them. Read also BBNaija Ilebaye dragged by content creator for walking away from set: "Money doesn't buy class" PAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app! The father of four made it known that all the happenings in the world can be summed up as life. See the post here:  Netizens have reacted to the actor's post. He was dragged for not following his advice. See their responses here. @jeffery_emma_01: @edith.dike: @mariama.sidique: @mimi.victor.5036: @chibuzor2831: @queenelephant.mtothea: Read also "I can't buy Birkin bag for a girl, my turn she's telling me a king was born today": Victor Osimhen @colletteamuchechukwu: @fundznicki: @kdessy_collections: @galeyterry: Legit.ng had earlier reported that the actor generated reactions after giving out marriage advice on social media. He had said there was no rule to marriage. He added that a broken union is not the end of life for anyone. According to him, marriage is a beautiful union. People should not be discouraged by what others have passed through. He also gave tips on how to live a happy married life. Source: Legit.ng 

                Shade Metibogun                                    (Entertainment editor)
                            
Shade Metibogun is an entertainment editor at Legit.ng (since 2023). She has over a decade experience in both print and online media (THEWILL, Institute for Media and Society). Shade is Post Graduate Diploma in Education ( 2016), Bachelor Degree in Literature in English, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Email: shade.metibogun@corp.legit.ng
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you