AI will take center stage at Build 2023. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The session list for Microsoft’s Build developer conference is live, and perhaps unsurprisingly, it has revealed that the company is planning to talk a lot more about its AI efforts across many different products and services, including Microsoft 365 and Windows. The conference will open with a keynote lead by Satya Nadella, who will give a general overview of the company’s plans for AI and how developers can leverage AI models to enhance their own apps and services using things like the Microsoft Graph. Additional breakout sessions will dive in further, with CVP Panos Panay and EVP Rajesh Jha leading a session that will talk more about how developers can leverage the power of Microsoft 365, Windows, and the Microsoft Graph to develop next generation AI applications. There are also announcements around the ONNX runtime, along with related tools that will help developers integrate an AI model into Windows apps. Microsoft is even making it easier to see an overview of your developer workstations with a new "Dev Home” app. There's even a dedicated session from EVP Scott Guthrie that will detail next generation AI innovation for developers through services such as Github Copilot, Azure OpenAI services, and the Microsoft Cloud platform. Other interesting Windows sessions include one about how developers can build great Windows on ARM apps, another on expanding app reach using the Microsoft Store and Windows Widgets, and a deep-dive into how Microsoft is delivering major updates to File Explorer by implementing WinUI 3. Lastly, a session from Microsoft’s Partner Program Manager, Scott Hanselman will dive into “developer joy” and showcase what Windows developers have to look forward to in the coming weeks and months. All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. You can check out the full Build session list here, and be sure to tune in to the live event on May 23 for all the announcements as they happen. Zac Bowden is a Senior Editor at Windows Central. Bringing you exclusive coverage into the world of Windows on PCs, tablets, phones, and more. Also an avid collector of rare Microsoft prototype devices! Keep in touch on Twitter and Threads Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 