
Prime
 Mr Godfrey Mubiru, the school director of studies said they took the decision to allow the learners to use smartphones to facilitate the implementation of the new lower secondary school curriculum. 
By 
Editor
  Unblushing in the face of admonition, the government is struggling to save the leftovers of a devitalised Lower Secondary Curriculum (LSC). Uganda Vision 2040 mandates government to give learners opportunities to excel in the skills areas they are placed in. In view of that, government through the National Curriculum Development Centre changed our education system to emphasise practical skills, attitude and moral values geared towards the overall goal of producing graduates with employable skills, and who are competitive in the job market. Under the revised curriculum, Senior One students were required to do a vocational special project whose assessment, in Senior Three, leads to award of a Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) certificate in an employable skill. However, in May, government suspended planned DIT assessment after schools reported challenges. Teachers didn’t understand the teaching required for DIT skills transfer and schools lacked paraphernalia for practicals. The lack of textbooks, late release of funds and procurement blunders made matters worse. Some schools abandoned the revised curriculum and fed learners on an outdated syllabus. Others opted for a hybrid that lacked textbooks and other supporting documents. The government last week rolled out the distribution of 15.5 million textbooks to enable the teachers to deliver lessons under the revised curriculum. Understandably, the development, production, procurement and distribution of textbooks is a long process. However, the alleged distribution of unidentified number of textbooks for Senior One and Senior Two notwithstanding, our view, is that a three-year wait is baffling, and in away, borders on a reeking procurement scandal that needs to be investigated. How ministry officials sourced the 28 local suppliers remains unclear and the outsourcing arrangement of a Shs63.6b deal is another issue of public concern. The failure to implement the planned skills component in the revised curriculum is another scandal. Since government is ill-prepared, the best option would be to suspend the entire curriculum, or fix the gaps and put all the facilities in place, re-tool teachers and announce a new date for implementation of the LSC. Ministry of Education officials must explain where exactly the rains started beating the revised curriculum before things fall apart. Concerned officials must also account for LSC funds and explain why textbooks come more than three years since government rolled out the revised curriculum and why learning materials for local and foreign languages were not procured, yet government knew the cost implications of a revised curriculum. 
We come to you.
We are always looking for ways to improve our stories. Let us know what you liked and what we can improve on.
 
The Africa CDC has been working with countries experiencing mpox outbreaks 
The prosecution led by Ms Samali Wakooli had told the court of how she was ready to present three witnesses to testify against the five suspects 
Emergent's ACAM2000 vaccine, approved for smallpox, has been used as an mpox shot but the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is yet to approve its application for use against the virus 
If you have an Ad-blocker please disable it and reload the page or try again later.
 
Nation Media Group © 2024
 
It's free!
 
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism
