Michael Makara writes he doesn't have his MAGA mob's back this time. See all homes sold in these New Jersey counties from July 29 to Aug. 4, 2024. Construction is expected to begin in September. The project will cost over $900,000. A house in Sewell that sold for $740,000 tops the list of the most expensive residential real estate sales in Gloucester County in the past week. Joseph Vereneault writes that after the disastrous debate performance, his path to reelection was gone. For prospective homebuyers eyeing the real estate market in areas of Gloucester County, here's what sold for or under $500,000 between Aug. 5 and Aug. 11. "Some on the Christian right are essentially arguing that the Founders didn’t mean what they wrote in the First Amendment about separation of church and state when it comes to Christianity," the author writes. "And they darkly imply those who assert the need for that separation do so to undermine Christian faith." NJ Transit wins custody of the unbuilt Glassboro-Camden line. Doesn't it already have too many kids to feed or raise properly? Barbara Essington cites ineffectiveness, liberalism. Prospective homebuyers considering the real estate market had a range of options in various neighborhoods throughout the region between Aug. 5 and Aug. 11. In this article, we outline recent property sales in Gloucester County, all of which featured homes under $250,000. The Deptford mayor and public safety officials told the superintendent the plan 'poses a significant risk' to students. The plan was rescinded hours later. The following is a listing of all home transfers in Gloucester County reported from Aug. 5 to Aug. 11. There were 53 transactions posted during this time. During this period, the median sale for the area was a 1,270-square-foot home on Florence Avenue in Pitman that sold for $365,000. Gloucester County Archives Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices