The Communication Director of the studio has spoken much in favor of Epic Games.  Story Highlights Video game developers and publishers working in sync with each other is always a nice thing, one that ultimately leads to tip-top, polished titles, with Alan Wake 2 being the latest example in line regarding that. Remedy’s Communications Director, Thomas Puha, posted online to praise Epic Games — the project’s publisher — for letting the studio make the game they truly wanted. Shoutout to @EpicPublishing They let us make the game we wanted. Nothing but supportive. Epic's production team especially KILLED it on Alan Wake 2. They really care. Never have I read so much good feedback from milestones and have producers play so much of the game constantly. — Thomas Puha (@RiotRMD) October 26, 2023  It appears Epic truly dug in on the sequel’s development, according to how Thomas says, “Nothing but supportive. Epic’s production team especially KILLED it on Alan Wake 2,” continuing the praise by highlighting how the Epic producers went through the game constantly in order to hammer out any missteps ahead of time. Fast-forward to today, when Alan Wake 2’s release is two days in, the results have clearly manifested.  Rounding up the reviews for the survival horror, many are of the opinion that this game was worth the 13 years of waiting that all of us had to endure, hoping for an Alan Wake successor. The title sits at a solid 88 Metascore on Metacritic and has gone on to garner universal praise for its next-level graphics, deep level of immersion, and highly engaging narrative that keeps one on the edge of their seat.  “Borderline photorealistic” is what many are referring the game’s visuals to, at least on consoles. On PC, though, it’s a different story, with performance and graphical capabilities relying solely on hardware. In case you’re having a tough time tweaking the game for optimal playability, check out this guide on best Alan Wake 2 PC settings to see if they make a difference for you.  Thomas Puha also expanded on the matter earlier, saying that the game works great on consoles, and runs as well as possible on PC. “Yes. I have the unofficial role of “player experience” which is a very very loose term, but I’m all about the console quality as we have more than enough folks to drive the PC quality to as good as it can be,” Thomas said when concerns over the title’s performance ran rampant.  Alan Wake 2 was released on October 27, 2023, for the PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC, following its initial announcement during 2021’s The Game Awards. For more insight into the title’s development along with its plotline, check out our Alan Wake 2 interview with Sam Lake, Remedy Entertainment’s Creative Director. Thanks! Do share your feedback with us. ⚡ How can we make this post better? Your help would be appreciated. ✍ Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           Enjoyed this article? Discuss the latest gaming news, get expert help with guides and errors, and chat about all things gaming on eXputer Forums and Discord Server. Connect with fellow gamers who share your passion by becoming a part of eXputer's community. 
					 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           
					These are challenging times for video game journalism, and we need your support. If eXputer has been part of your gaming journey, please consider becoming a Patreon member. Your contribution will help us continue delivering the content you love and keep our independent voice alive. Thank you for standing with us.
				 
	eXputer is a leading gaming-focused news and media website catering to a diverse readership across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC regions. Specializing in gaming news, guides, tier lists, game settings, and error fixes, eXputer also conducts interviews and offers exclusives, features, and leaks. Additionally, eXputer provides gaming tools such as a game recommendation engine, all built for gamers by gamers.
 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           © 2024 eXputer®. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. eXputer® is part of REDLUMB LLC FZ.