When it comes to downtown entertainment destinations, Boiseans usually think of the bar district at Sixth and Main streets. Or the patio-packed “restaurant row” on 8th. But don’t forget about BoDo. The commercial district on the south side of Front Street has cranked up its visibility in the past year. Big time. With summer approaching, it’s time to show off the changes — at a BoDo Block Party. The Warehouse Food Hall, 370 S. 8th St., and Treefort Music Hall, 722 W. Broad St., will present a daylong event Saturday, June 24. BoDo Block Party is a free, all-ages event and will run from 10:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. “We’re closing off 8th Street between Front and Broad for an epic party that celebrates everything great happening on the BoDo block,” a Warehouse media release explains. “Expect live performances every hour, on the hour, on stages on the street, inside Treefort Music Hall, and in the newly unveiled Hap Hap Lounge.” BoDo Block Party will feature food and drink vendors, family-friendly games, and fan experiences with Idaho Steelheads hockey players. Performers will include Smokey Brights, Afrosonics, DJ Mighty Deltaone and more. And when that’s coming to a close? There are two afterparties to hit. Quirky funk-rock band Thumpasaurus and opening act Lobo Lara will perform at 9:15 p.m. at Treefort Music Hall. The first 250 tickets will be free with registration, which begins at 10 a.m. Thursday at Eventbrite. After that, it’s $15 advance, $20 at the door. Boiseans will be able to check out the rooftop Hap Hap Lounge (21 and older only) above Treefort Music Hall at another afterparty. This isn’t just fun for fun’s sake. This is a marketing extravaganza designed to introduce Idahoans to an increasingly dynamic section of downtown Boise. “While you’re at the block party,” the media release suggests, “head into The Warehouse Food Hall and indulge in over a dozen food and beverage options, and be sure to stop in and see all the neighbors of the BoDo district.” Get wild! Climb aboard that giant horse statue outside P.F. Chang’s and ride ‘em, cowboy! (OK, maybe not that wild.) Opened in 2005, P.F. Chang’s is a veteran anchor of BoDo entertainment. But that old stallion has watched plenty of newcomers materialize recently. The massive Warehouse Food Hall was launched last July, offering a variety of restaurant brands. Clucks Nashville Hot Chicken, 345 S. 8th St., opened a restaurant last year, too. Treefort Music Hall followed this year, as did movie multiplex BoDo Cinema, 760 W. Broad St. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.