e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 The San Diego Union-Tribune San Diego, CA - April 18: Padres Spanish radio announcer Eduardo Ortega does his pregame announcements prior to the Padres game against the Braves at Petco Park on Tuesday, April 18, 2023 in San Diego, CA. (Meg McLaughlin / The San Diego Union-Tribune) San Diego Padres Padres' broadcaster Eduardo Ortega, left, and Dodgers' Jaime Jarrin broadcaster Jaime Jarrin. The San Diego Union-Tribune San Diego, CA - April 18: Padres Spanish radio announcer Eduardo Ortega does his pregame announcements prior to the Padres game against the Braves at Petco Park on Tuesday, April 18, 2023 in San Diego, CA. (Meg McLaughlin / The San Diego Union-Tribune) The San Diego Union-Tribune San Diego, CA - April 18: Padres Spanish radio announcer Eduardo Ortega does his pregame announcements prior to the Padres game against the Braves at Petco Park on Tuesday, April 18, 2023 in San Diego, CA. (Meg McLaughlin / The San Diego Union-Tribune) San Diego, CA - April 18: Padres Spanish radio announcer Eduardo Ortega does his pregame announcements prior to the Padres game against the Braves at Petco Park on Tuesday, April 18, 2023 in San Diego, CA. (Meg McLaughlin / The San Diego Union-Tribune) MEXICO CITYMEXICO CITY — It was a cold December night in Mexicali, in a ballpark that was far more empty than full, and the warm embrace of Eduardo Ortega’s voice made it feel like home.He talked about the game’s pitchers and their hometowns and which organizations they have played for. He described balls and strikes and grounders to the left side. He told a story about the manager of the visiting team and of the crowd the night before and of games played and feats accomplished here and there long ago and last week.And whether you understand every word Ortega says in Spanish or just some or none at all, the way he speaks makes you want to hear more.“That’s the way I feel the game,” Ortega said of a style that is part grandfather telling stories to the kids gathered around his feet, a little bit Shakespearean and the occasional Se va! Se va! Se Va!“Honestly, like in terms of pure broadcasting, he’s the highest standard of what we all aim for,” said Pedro Gutierrez, who works with Ortega on the Padres’ Spanish-language radio broadcasts on 860-AM. “Just talking to the broadcasters (for other teams), we all follow in his footsteps in terms of having that high standard of broadcasts. … You’re not going to hit his notes, because if we were all as good as Eduardo, then nobody would be as good as Eduardo.”Said Padres television play-by-play man Don Orsillo: “I’ll hear his calls sometimes … and I’m like, ‘That was so much better than what I just said.’ It’s so much more exciting. The words sound much better. And he finishes it with some giant celebration.”Ortega’s words and his lilt and his earnestness don’t require translation. He talks about baseball as if he cares for it deeply.Which he does.

That love is what takes him back year after year to call games in the Mexican Pacific League in the winter.Ortega, a native of Tijuana, will be 60 in June. He no longer makes the arduous and sometimes perilous bus trips or takes the commercial flights teams in Mexico’s winter league do. But between seasons calling 162 games for the Padres on radio and television — as he has done for 37 years — he has spent the better part of his past 18 offseasons in Mexicali calling home games of the Aguilas de Mexicali on radio and for the Mexican national cable network Megacable and Sky Sports.“Some people might be surprised at the work he puts in,” said Lalo Meza, who works the Aguilas broadcasts with Ortega. “He loves the game. His love for baseball, his passion for baseball.”Ortega might be known mostly only by a subset of Spanish-speaking Padres fans — those who listen to him on the radio and those who switch over their Bally Sports San Diego broadcasts to Spanish — but his reach in Mexico and beyond is vast.He began his career calling games for the Tijuana Potros almost 40 years ago. He has called 20 World Series and 17 Caribbean Series and was the lead Spanish-language play-by-play voice for four World Baseball Classics.“You’ve had generations of Mexican baseball fans who have followed him,” Meza said through interpreter Danny Sanchez. “There have been a lot of baseball fans that have grown up listening to Eduardo, fans that have followed him not just in Mexico but have followed him to the Padres and become Padres fans because of how good a job he does painting the picture and telling the story of baseball.”So it is that this weekend, with the Padres are in Mexico’s capital to play two games against the Giants — the first regular season MLB games ever held in Mexico City — Ortega will be among the biggest draws.Orsillo experienced how true that is working on radio alongside Ortega in 2016, when the Padres played two exhibitions against the Astros here near the end of spring training.Old Estadio Fray Nano did not have a booth for the three-man crew. Orsillo, Ortega and engineer Dave Marcus had a small table set up in the stadium’s back row. Orsillo was on the outside, Ortega in the middle.“I had no idea the popularity of Eduardo Ortega until I got to Mexico City,” Orsillo said. “It was like the Beatles were there. There were people crawling all over me, trying to touch him. They kept saying to him, ‘Can I touch you? Can I touch you?’ And he’s like, ‘Yeah. Yeah.’ It got to the point where I was kind of like security, because at some point we have to work. We’ve got to stop taking some of these pictures, selfies. It was insane. He’s just a rock star of epic proportions.”Ortega returned with the Padres this week at an exciting time in Mexican baseball after the country’s team advanced to the semifinals of the WBC last month.In the days before the Padres arrived here, Ortega’s excitement was building. His loves — the game and the Padres and Mexico — were about to be together.He has called all the Padres’ games in Mexico. He has made trips with Tony Gwynn and others to hold clinics.“This one is big,” he said. “The capital of the country. … And it’s great because this is the best moment of Mexican international presence after what happened at the World Baseball Classic. The whole country is embracing baseball more. I love it.” He talked about the game’s pitchers and their hometowns and which organizations they have played for. He described balls and strikes and grounders to the left side. He told a story about the manager of the visiting team and of the crowd the night before and of games played and feats accomplished here and there long ago and last week. And whether you understand every word Ortega says in Spanish or just some or none at all, the way he speaks makes you want to hear more. “That’s the way I feel the game,” Ortega said of a style that is part grandfather telling stories to the kids gathered around his feet, a little bit Shakespearean and the occasional Se va! Se va! Se Va! “Honestly, like in terms of pure broadcasting, he’s the highest standard of what we all aim for,” said Pedro Gutierrez, who works with Ortega on the Padres’ Spanish-language radio broadcasts on 860-AM. “Just talking to the broadcasters (for other teams), we all follow in his footsteps in terms of having that high standard of broadcasts. … You’re not going to hit his notes, because if we were all as good as Eduardo, then nobody would be as good as Eduardo.” Said Padres television play-by-play man Don Orsillo: “I’ll hear his calls sometimes … and I’m like, ‘That was so much better than what I just said.’ It’s so much more exciting. The words sound much better. And he finishes it with some giant celebration.” Ortega’s words and his lilt and his earnestness don’t require translation. He talks about baseball as if he cares for it deeply. Which he does. That love is what takes him back year after year to call games in the Mexican Pacific League in the winter. Ortega, a native of Tijuana, will be 60 in June. He no longer makes the arduous and sometimes perilous bus trips or takes the commercial flights teams in Mexico’s winter league do. But between seasons calling 162 games for the Padres on radio and television — as he has done for 37 years — he has spent the better part of his past 18 offseasons in Mexicali calling home games of the Aguilas de Mexicali on radio and for the Mexican national cable network Megacable and Sky Sports. “Some people might be surprised at the work he puts in,” said Lalo Meza, who works the Aguilas broadcasts with Ortega. “He loves the game. His love for baseball, his passion for baseball.” Ortega might be known mostly only by a subset of Spanish-speaking Padres fans — those who listen to him on the radio and those who switch over their Bally Sports San Diego broadcasts to Spanish — but his reach in Mexico and beyond is vast. He began his career calling games for the Tijuana Potros almost 40 years ago. He has called 20 World Series and 17 Caribbean Series and was the lead Spanish-language play-by-play voice for four World Baseball Classics. “You’ve had generations of Mexican baseball fans who have followed him,” Meza said through interpreter Danny Sanchez. “There have been a lot of baseball fans that have grown up listening to Eduardo, fans that have followed him not just in Mexico but have followed him to the Padres and become Padres fans because of how good a job he does painting the picture and telling the story of baseball.” So it is that this weekend, with the Padres are in Mexico’s capital to play two games against the Giants — the first regular season MLB games ever held in Mexico City — Ortega will be among the biggest draws. Orsillo experienced how true that is working on radio alongside Ortega in 2016, when the Padres played two exhibitions against the Astros here near the end of spring training. Old Estadio Fray Nano did not have a booth for the three-man crew. Orsillo, Ortega and engineer Dave Marcus had a small table set up in the stadium’s back row. Orsillo was on the outside, Ortega in the middle. “I had no idea the popularity of Eduardo Ortega until I got to Mexico City,” Orsillo said. “It was like the Beatles were there. There were people crawling all over me, trying to touch him. They kept saying to him, ‘Can I touch you? Can I touch you?’ And he’s like, ‘Yeah. Yeah.’ It got to the point where I was kind of like security, because at some point we have to work. We’ve got to stop taking some of these pictures, selfies. It was insane. He’s just a rock star of epic proportions.” Ortega returned with the Padres this week at an exciting time in Mexican baseball after the country’s team advanced to the semifinals of the WBC last month. In the days before the Padres arrived here, Ortega’s excitement was building. His loves — the game and the Padres and Mexico — were about to be together. He has called all the Padres’ games in Mexico. He has made trips with Tony Gwynn and others to hold clinics. “This one is big,” he said. “The capital of the country. … And it’s great because this is the best moment of Mexican international presence after what happened at the World Baseball Classic. The whole country is embracing baseball more. I love it.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group