Now Streaming Online - Relive The High Flying Action Of ‘Top Gun: Maverick’; The Tom Cruise Led Blockbuster Wins Best Sound At The 95th Academy Awards Tom Cruise plays Capt. Pete "Maverick" Mitchell in 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Tom Cruise plays Capt. Pete "Maverick" Mitchell in 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. We feel the need, the need to relive the action of ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ right from the comfort of our couches. The highly anticipated sequel soared into theaters on May 27, 2022, and quickly became the summer movie to see. With a Rotten Tomatoes score of 96% from critics and 99% from the audience, the Tom Cruise-led film has now earned over $1.4 billion worldwide. Top Gun: Maverick"Feel the need... The need for speed."82PG-132 hr 11 minMay 27th, 2022Showtimes & TicketsWatch Top Gun: Maverick Online ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ is a follow-up to the 1986 ‘Top Gun’, directed by Tony Scott. It’s been over 36 years since the original film and even with all the delays due to COVID and scheduling conflicts, fans patiently awaited for it to arrive in theaters. The film centers around Pete “Maverick” Mitchell (Tom Cruise) who has been ordered to return to Top Gun flight school to train the next group of pilots for a dangerous mission. The official synopsis for ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ is below: “After more than 30 years of service as one of the Navy's top aviators, Pete "Maverick" Mitchell is where he belongs, pushing the envelope as a courageous test pilot and dodging the advancement in rank that would ground him. Training a detachment of graduates for a special assignment, Maverick must confront the ghosts of his past and his deepest fears, culminating in a mission that demands the ultimate sacrifice from those who choose to fly it.” Tom Cruise on the set of 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Tom Cruise on the set of 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. The film also starred Miles Teller ('Spiderhead'), Glen Powell ('Devotion'), Jennifer Connelly ('A Beautiful Mind'), Jon Hamm ('Confess, Fletch'), Monica Barbaro ('At Midnight'), Lewis Pullman ('Battle of the Sexes'), Bashir Salahuddin ('Gringo'), Danny Ramirez ('Look Both Ways'), Manny Jacinto ('I Want You Back'), Ed Harris ('Pollock'), and Val Kilmer ('Kiss Kiss Bang Bang'). With today’s technology, ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ brought the action to new heights. Utilizing practical stunts and gravity-defying flight sequences, the film puts the audience right in the cockpit with heart-dropping drops, rolls, and dives. The actors themselves also experienced g-forces and top-speed flying. The aviation-action title was nominated in several categories for the 95th Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Sound, Best Original Song (performed by Lady Gaga), Best Film Editing, Best Visual Effects, and Best Adapted Screenplay. The film brought home the Oscar for Best Sound. Tom Cruise plays Capt. Pete "Maverick" Mitchell in 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Tom Cruise plays Capt. Pete "Maverick" Mitchell in 'Top Gun: Maverick' from Paramount Pictures, Skydance and Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Tom Cruise is known for delivering top-tier stunt sequences in his movies often performing the stunts himself, such as hanging on to the door of a commercial aircraft during takeoff in ‘Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation’. For ‘Top Gun: Maverick’, while he is an experienced and licensed pilot, Cruise did not actually fly the Boeing F/A 18F Super Hornet jet used in the film. Due to military regulations, the actor flew in the backseat of the aircraft while a Navy pilot controlled the plane. This was the same scenario for the cast. But this doesn’t mean the cast had an easy time - the intense flying sequences require serious training for the actors and Cruise himself designed an intensive three-month training program for the cast to go through prior to filming. On top of the intense training, the cast had to be their own cinematographer while they were in the air. The F18 aircraft did not allow room for additional crew, and during the flight sequences, director Joseph Kosinski was not able to communicate with the cast or see the footage being filmed. Therefore it was up to the actors to make sure they were framed and lit properly. The film first premiered at Cinema Con on April 22, 2022. It opened in the US on May 27th and was available in IMAX, 4DX, ScreenX, ad Dolby Cinema. The film earned $126.7 million on its opening weekend. While it’s been almost 10 months since it's premiere, there are still theaters playing the film, though it is limited. ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ has a total runtime of 2 hours and 11 minutes. Watch the official trailers for ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ below:  You can stream ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ on Paramount+, with a subscription fee ranging from $5 to $10 monthly, or MGM+ (formerly Epix) for $6 a month. Both services offer free trials for those looking for a new streaming platform. Additionally, it is also available to rent (pricing varies) or purchase for $19.99 digitally on various platforms. For those who prefer the own the physical copy? ‘Top Gun: Maverick’ is available to purchase on DVD and Blu-Ray with over 80 minutes of special features. For the collectors, there’s a limited-edition Steel book available on Amazon. In the newly debuted ParamountShop.com, you can find themed accessories and apparel inspired by the movie. The actor is no stranger to action films. Check out these movies for more jaw-dropping action sequences. If you enjoyed the intense aerial flight sequences and dog fights scenes in ‘Top Gun Maverick’, here are a few more films to check out: Please click on the video player below to watch our interviews with actors Danny Ramirez, Lewis Pullman, Greg Tarzan Davis, and Charles Parnell, as well as producer Jerry Bruckheimer about 'Top Gun: Maverick.'  Wendy Lee was born and raised in Taiwan. She later moved to Florida for school and eventually made her way to Los Angeles to pursue a career in entertainment. She's an actor, host, and content creator. She has appeared on Collider Movie News, Rotten Tomatoes Is Wrong Podcast, Focus Feature's You Know That Scene, Nerdist News Talks Back, and more. She runs the YouTube channel The Movie Couple covering movie and entertainment news, movie and tv show reviews, and more.