arts entertainmentMovies By  Tommy Cummings By  Tommy Cummings 6:00 AM on Mar 2, 2023 CST What is it with celebrities hawking agave spirits? Mark Wahlberg recently joined the trend and Friday will be backing Flecha Azul Tequila by signing bottles at a Dallas liquor store. Last month, Breaking Bad stars Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul stopped by a Dallas bottle shop and signed bottles of a mezcal brand in which they have a stake. Other celebs endorsing agave spirits include Toby Keith, Dwayne Johnson, Justin Timberlake, Carlos Santana, Sammy Hagar, Guy Fieri, Ryan Reynolds, Kate Hudson, Eva Longoria and George Clooney — to name a few. Catch up on the day's news you need to know. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Wahlberg told The Hollywood Reporter he’s backing Flecha Azul because he’s impressed by the efforts of PGA golfer Abraham Ancer and entrepreneur Aron Marquez, co-founders of the brand. “I loved their story,” Wahlberg said. “Everything that they’ve done is so similar to what I’m trying to build on my own, one step at a time.” He will be at Spec’s at 9500 N. Central Expressway from 1 to 3 p.m. Friday. Organizers encourage fans to arrive early. Since Sunday, Wahlberg has been under fire for his appearance at the SAG Awards, where he presented the best ensemble award to the predominantly Asian cast of Everything Everywhere All at Once. He’s had a long history of legal run-ins since he was a teenager. In 1988, he served 45 days of a two-year prison sentence for attacking two Vietnamese men. Wahlberg also will be in Deep Ellum on Thursday for the opening of a restaurant, the Dallas Observer reported. He’s also a business partner in Wahlburgers, which opened at The Star in Frisco in 2019. He met with Marquez and Ancer in 2019, the year before Flecha Azul launched. Wahlberg announced an ownership stake in January 2022. “Yeah, I just cut a big check and said, ‘Let me do my thing and promote you guys and your brand.’ That’s literally the extent of it,” Wahlberg said. Cranston and Paul’s mezcal brand, Dos Hombres, is based in San Luis del Rio, Oaxaca. They got into the mezcal business in 2019. Why are so many celebrities emerging as liquor pitchmen and pitchwomen? A celebrity connection “provides immediate validity to a product and cuts through the clutter of traditional advertising,” Brandy Rand, chief strategy officer at IWSR Drinks Market Analysis, told USA Today. “For new brands, the star factor can jumpstart awareness and facilitate distribution and sales.” Tommy Cummings. Tommy Cummings has worked at The Dallas Morning News, Fort Worth Star-Telegram and the San Francisco Chronicle as an editor/writer/digital producer.