We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Isabel is a lead writer at NerdWallet covering auto insurance. She's also got a knack for finding stories buried in data. Previously, Isabel worked as a personal finance writer for Morning Brew’s Money Scoop and as a markets reporter at Forbes, where she covered everything from fintech and crypto to billionaires and IPOs. Isabel earned her bachelor’s degrees in journalism and economics from Boston University, where she fostered a passion for throwing intimidating jargon out the window to make financial topics accessible to all. She is originally from Mexico City and is currently based in Brooklyn, New York.   Lacie Glover spent more than five years covering health care costs and all types of insurance as a NerdWallet writer before becoming an assistant assigning editor in 2019 and later an assigning editor on the insurance team. As a writer, her work was featured in The Associated Press, The Motley Fool and U.S. News & World Report. Lacie is a NerdWallet authority on insurance products and loves data, analytics and solving SEO mysteries.   Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. 3.5 DiscountsRatings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Ease of useRatings are determined by our editorial team. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Pros Cons 3.5 DiscountsRatings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Ease of useRatings are determined by our editorial team. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Pros Cons Erie earned 3.5 stars out of 5 for overall performance. NerdWallet’s ratings are determined by our editorial team. The scoring formula takes into account consumer experience, complaint data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and financial strength ratings. Erie Insurance is a strong choice for insurance. The Erie, Pennsylvania, insurer operates in 12 states and Washington, D.C., and makes most customers happy: Erie gets generally high marks for satisfaction in J.D. Power ratings [0]J.D. Power. J.D. Power 2024 Auto Insurance Customer Satisfaction Study. Accessed Jul 9, 2024.View all sources. » MORE: The best car insurance companies In our auto insurance reviews, our editorial team considers both the customer and the insurer. These are some of the factors we take into account: Financial strength. We use A.M. Best ratings to confirm an insurer’s long-term financial stability and ability to pay claims. NerdWallet does not recommend companies with a rating lower than a B.  Complaints. These ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The best auto insurance companies have fewer than the expected number of complaints. Ease of use. This category looks at how easily consumers can interact with an insurer through its mobile app and website. This includes how much coverage information is offered online, whether a user can start and track a claim online and get a quote and mobile app scores based on the Apple and Google Play store ratings. Discounts. We look at both the kind of discounts a company offers and the total number of discounts available. Erie offers a multitude of coverage types to choose from, including new car replacement coverage, gap insurance, rideshare insurance and more. You can also lock in your rate until you make changes to your policy, like adding a vehicle or moving. If you add comprehensive coverage to your policy, you’ll get extra perks that other insurers charge more for, including glass repair with no deductible, locksmith service up to $75, personal items coverage up to $350 and basic rental car insurance. Erie ranked high in J.D. Power’s 2024 survey for auto insurance shopping [0]J.D. Power. 2024 U.S. Auto Insurance Shopping Study. Accessed Jul 9, 2024.View all sources and J.D. Power's 2023 survey for claims satisfaction [0]J.D. Power. J.D. Power 2023 Auto Claims Satisfaction Study. Accessed Jul 9, 2024.View all sources . Erie has close to the expected number of complaints to state regulators for an insurance company of its size. The company also doesn’t have as many discounts as other car insurance companies. Erie also has limited state availability, writing auto insurance policies in 12 states and Washington, D.C. Current Product 3.5 4.5 5.0 Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Close to expected Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Close to expected Complaints to NAIC Ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company's size, according to three years' worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Fewer than expected Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Above average Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Above average Ease of use Ratings are determined by our editorial team. Our "ease of use" category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Above average Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Average set of discounts Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Great set of discounts Discounts Ratings are based on the number of discounts a company offers in comparison to other insurers. Average set of discounts Bottom line  The company is popular with consumers but operates in only 12 states and Washington, D.C. Bottom line  Progressive offers a variety of products, but there’s room for improvement when it comes to customer satisfaction. Bottom line  With generous coverage and discounts for good driving habits, State Farm is a popular insurer with fewer complaints compared to other large competitors. When you're shopping for car insurance coverage, it's important to understand what car insurance coverage you want and what you’re required to buy. For instance, most states require a minimum amount of car insurance to drive a vehicle. Alternatively, if you want extra protection, you may be interested in full coverage insurance. Read about the most common types of car insurance coverage to see how they work. Auto insurance policies from Erie Insurance include extras that may not be available in every state, such as: Accident forgiveness. This prevents you from facing a surcharge after your first at-fault accident once you’ve been an Erie customer for three years. Pet injury coverage. This provides up to $500 each for veterinary care for pets injured in your vehicle in an accident, up to $1,000 total. Rate lock. This lets you lock in your auto insurance rates until you add or remove drivers, add or remove vehicles, change where you generally park your car or move. It's limited to three years in Virginia. Diminishing deductible. This reduces your deductible by $100 for every consecutive year you don’t file a claim, up to $500. If you buy comprehensive auto insurance, Erie throws in more perks: Glass repair with no deductible and a new set of wiper blades if your windshield is replaced. Locksmith service of up to $75 if you lock your keys in your car. Personal items coverage of up to $350 for clothing, luggage and other belongings inside an insured vehicle. Auto policies typically don’t cover personal items in the car. This extra is also available with Erie’s collision insurance. Better car replacement coverage pays to replace a new car that has been deemed a total loss after a wreck and has been driven for less than two years with the car’s newest available model. Policyholders also need to buy collision coverage to qualify for this benefit. Erie’s Auto Plus package, for $45 a year in most states, adds an assortment of benefits, some of which vary by state: Extra days of rental car coverage after an accident. Higher limits for some coverage, including locksmith costs and personal items. Waived deductible on your auto policy for certain instances. A death benefit of $10,000 per person if someone dies from a covered accident. Erie also offers additional auto insurance options like: New car replacement. If you have a car up to 24 months old and it’s totaled, Erie will replace it with a new car of the current model year, minus the deductible. This isn’t available in every state. Better car replacement. If your car is at least 24 months old and is totaled, this coverage will pay for a car of the same make and model two years newer, minus the deductible. This coverage isn’t available in every state. Gap insurance. If your car is totaled, this coverage will pay off your auto loan. Generous rental car coverage and options. Most auto insurers offer rental car coverage at an extra cost, so you have a way to get around if your car is in the shop for covered damage. Erie includes the basic coverage free in its comprehensive coverage, but you can pay for upgraded rental options, such as a luxury car or SUV instead of a sedan. Rideshare coverage. If you drive for a service like Uber or Lyft, the companies’ policies cover you while you’re carrying passengers or en route to pick them up, but not while you’re waiting for ride requests. Erie’s rideshare insurance for drivers covers that gap. Rideshare coverage may not be available in all states. You can also buy an auto security package from Erie that includes new car replacement, better car replacement and gap insurance. » MORE: Compare car insurance rates  Depending on where you live, you may be eligible for discounts for: Insuring more than one vehicle. Having Erie home or life insurance in addition to auto coverage. Not using your car for at least 90 consecutive days. Having safety features like air bags, anti-theft devices and anti-lock brakes. Paying your full premium upfront. Being unmarried and living with your parents if you’re under 21. Staying accident-free. Being a loyal Erie customer. After three years with Erie, you’ll qualify for their first accident forgiveness program, which ensures your premium won’t go up after your first at-fault accident. First time shopping for auto insurance? Unsure of where to start? Check out our guide on how to shop for car insurance. Erie’s YourTurn app tracks driving habits like braking, accelerating, speeding and phone use while driving. Although you won’t receive a car insurance discount, you’ll get rewards in the app based on how safely you drive. These rewards can be redeemed for gift cards or charity donations. This isn't available in all states. Erie’s life insurance choices include term, whole and universal policies, though none is available in New York. Term life insurance is available for terms of 10, 15, 20 and 30 years. Up to $500,000 of coverage is available without a medical exam and has a quicker approval process. Some of Erie’s whole life insurance policies allow you to add an accelerated death benefit, which can help pay for long-term care if you’re critically ill or can no longer care for yourself. » MORE: The best life insurance companies Erie had close to the expected number of complaints about auto insurance to state regulators relative to its size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. However, it had fewer than the expected number of complaints for home and life insurance. J.D. Power study Erie ranking Auto insurance shopping (2024) No. 1 out of 17 companies. Auto insurance claims satisfaction (2023) No. 2 out of 24 companies. Website: Erie’s website is handy. You can get an auto quote, find an agent, pay your bill, access your account, track a claim and locate a repair shop. Mobile app: Erie has a smartphone app for managing your policy. Erie offers homeowners insurance and renters insurance. To learn more, read our Erie home insurance review and Erie renters insurance review. Erie offers other insurance such as: Condo and mobile home insurance. Motorcycle insurance. Umbrella insurance. Classic car insurance. Insurance for snowmobiles, mopeds, golf carts and all-terrain vehicles and recreational vehicles. Boat insurance. Identity theft recovery and fraud reimbursement. Business insurance. Medicare supplement insurance. Landlord insurance. Erie also offers retirement planning products like annuities and traditional and Roth individual retirement accounts. (Annuities from Erie aren’t available in New York). Yes, Erie offers perks with a basic policy that most insurers don’t. These perks include diminishing deductible, pet coverage, accident forgiveness and the option to lock in your auto insurance rates. You can get a quote online or by calling 800-458-0811. You can file a claim with Erie by calling your agent or calling Erie customer support. After you submit your claim, you can track it online. Customer service number: Erie’s phone number is 800-458-0811. Email: You can use a form on their website to email Erie. X: Reach out toTweet Erie on X at @Erie_insurance. Yes, Erie offers perks with a basic policy that most insurers don’t. These perks include diminishing deductible, pet coverage, accident forgiveness and the option to lock in your auto insurance rates. Yes, Erie offers perks with a basic policy that most insurers don’t. These perks include diminishing deductible, pet coverage, accident forgiveness and the option to lock in your auto insurance rates. You can get a quote online or by calling 800-458-0811. You can get a quote online or by calling 800-458-0811. You can file a claim with Erie by calling your agent or calling Erie customer support. After you submit your claim, you can track it online. You can file a claim with Erie by calling your agent or calling Erie customer support. After you submit your claim, you can track it online. Customer service number: Erie’s phone number is 800-458-0811. Customer service number:  Erie’s phone number is 800-458-0811. Email: You can use a form on their website to email Erie. Email:  You can use a form on their website to email Erie. X: Reach out toTweet Erie on X at @Erie_insurance. X:  Reach out toTweet Erie on X at  @Erie_insurance . Insurer complaints methodology NerdWallet examined complaints received by state insurance regulators and reported to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in 2021-2023. To assess how insurers compare to one another, the NAIC calculates a complaint index each year for each subsidiary, measuring its share of total complaints relative to its size, or share of total premiums in the industry. To evaluate a company’s complaint history, NerdWallet calculated a similar index for each insurer, weighted by market shares of each subsidiary, over the three-year period. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Ratios are determined separately for auto, home (including renters and condo) and life insurance. Auto insurance ratings methodology NerdWallet’s auto insurance ratings reward companies for customer-first features and practices. Ratings are based on weighted averages of scores in several categories, including financial strength, consumer complaints and discounts. Our “ease of use” category looks at factors such as website transparency and how easy it is to file a claim. Using our editorial discretion, we also consider customer satisfaction surveys. These ratings are a guide, but we encourage you to shop around and compare several insurance quotes to find the best rate for you. NerdWallet does not receive compensation for any reviews. Read our editorial guidelines and full ratings methodology for auto insurance. In this review . . .  Read more Read more  Explore INSURANCE Switching your insurance could save you hundreds a year Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105