“A Renaissance of Our Own: A Memoir & Manifesto on Reimagining, a beautifully written testimony by Green native Rachel Cargle, begins with the manifesto, a statement of purpose, rights and values. Cargle, who lived in subsidized housing with her mother and troubled sisters, was a devout Christian when she studied at the University of Toledo, but during a young marriage realized that her commitment was waning. She also realized that the marriage wasn’t right for her and began to expand her views. Cargle began to assemble a “chosen family” of friends and mentors outside her biological family. “Find joy in your family,” she advises. Cargle’s rising interest in feminism and the importance of Black women in feminism inspired her to start a podcast and to organize a bus trip to the 2017 Women’s March. A photo taken of her and another activist went viral, leading to a boost in her social media following. Deciding on a self-determined nontraditional course of study, she left Columbia University to become a “public academic,” focusing on “Blackness and womanhood” to become an anti-racism activist, calling out the privileged who advance at the expense of the underserved and marginalized. Cargle established the Loveland Group to comprise her Great Unlearn, a learning and support community that includes lectures and consulting, and the Loveland Foundation, which provides funding for counseling and therapy. The book has some interactive portions in which Cargle encourages readers to design their own manifestos. “A Renaissance of Our Own: A Memoir & Manifesto on Reimagining” (238 pages, hardcover) costs $28.99 from Ballantine Books. Rachel Cargle will talk about “A Renaissance of Our Own” in a conversation with Teresa LeGrair, president and CEO of Akron Urban League, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday at Well CDC, 67 E. Market St., site of Cargle’s Elizabeth’s Bookshop. Admission is $36 and includes a copy of the book; masks are required. Get tickets at Eventbrite. The first scene of “Blueberry Blunder” by Tallmadge author Amanda Flower finds candy maker Bailey King exasperated by the delays in building her new factory in Charm, a village in Holmes County. The contractor is months behind schedule, claiming delays in shipments and asking for more money. Bailey demands to see his records and then informs him he’s fired. Insistent community booster Margot barges in on the confrontation and conscripts Bailey to serve as the Blueberry Princess for the upcoming festival, which she’s sure will turn Charm into a “vacation destination to rival Disney.” Bailey’s inability to say no is well established in any of the previous seven books in the Amish Candy Shop mystery series, as well as her ability to find dead bodies. Bailey doesn’t end up being the Blueberry Princess after all, and for a change she actually has a motive for the murder of the unsatisfactory contractor. The snarling sheriff tends to focus on only one suspect, while Bailey finds them wherever she looks. Complicating things is an intrusive documentary crew in town to film the construction of the factory. Amanda Flower just won the 2022 Agatha Award for Best Historical Fiction for “Because I Could Not Stop for Death,” in which Emily Dickinson and her maid solve a murder. Its sequel, “I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died,” is scheduled for publication in November. “Blueberry Blunder” (336 pages, softcover) costs $8.99 from Kensington. Flower will talk about “Blueberry Blunder” at 6:30 p.m. Thursday at Hudson Library & Historical Society, 96 Library St., Hudson. The Ohioana Library has announced the finalists for the 2023 Ohioana Book Awards. Among them in the fiction category are former Beacon Journal writer Thrity Umrigar for “Honor” and Cleveland native Celeste Ng for “Our Missing Hearts.” The nonfiction nominees include Cleveland native Candice Millard for “River of the Gods: Genius, Courage, and Betrayal in the Search for the Source of the Nile,” and in the About Ohio or an Ohioan, Joyce Dyer for “Pursuing John Brown: On the Trail of a Radical Abolitionist.” Akron’s Noor Hindi is nominated in the poetry category for “Dear God, Dear Bones, Dear Yellow” and Wooster author Marcy Campbell in juvenile literature for “The More You Give.” The awards will be announced in July and presented in September at the Ohio Statehouse. Visible Voice Books (2258 Professor Ave., Cleveland): Poets Christine Howey and Jason Baldinger read from their work, 1 p.m. Sunday. At 7 p.m. Tuesday, actress and former Plain Township resident Amanda Kloots signs “My Own Magic: A Reappearing Act.” Register at visiblevoicebooks.com. At 4:30 p.m. Saturday, Jack Ricchiuto signs “Words in Flow: Zen in the Art of Writing.” Fireside Book Shop (29 N. Franklin St., Chagrin Falls): Cleveland resident Jeffrey P. Shafer signs “Our Game,” about a woman baseball player whose career is stymied by higher-ups, 1 to 3 p.m. Sunday. Blue Arrow Records (16001 Waterloo Road, Cleveland): Jen Larson, author of “Hit Girls: Women of Punk in the USA 1975-1983, Jim Ruland, author of Corporate Rock Sucks: The Rise and Fall of SST Records” and Aaron Burch (“How to Predict the Weather”) join a panel discussion moderated by writer Annie Zaleski, 4 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Cuyahoga County Public Library (Parma-Snow branch, 2121 Snow Road): Jack Carr (“The Terminal List”) talks about his political thriller “Only the Dead,” 7 to 8 p.m. Monday. The $30 ticket includes a pre-signed copy of the book and photo opportunities with the author. Register at cuyahogalibrary.org. Cuyahoga County Public Library (Bay Village branch, 27400 Wolf Road): Terri Libenson talks about her middle-grade book “Surprisingly Sarah,” 7 to 8 p.m. Monday. Register at cuyahogalibrary.org. Canal Fulton Library: Alan Hlad, author of historical fiction like “Churchill’s Secret Messenger” and “The Long Flight Home,” talks about his books in a virtual event from 6 to 7 p.m. Tuesday. Register at canalfultonlibrary.org. Shaw JCC of Akron (750 White Pond Drive): Les Roberts joins the Cleveland Stories Dinner Party series, talking about his Milan Jacovich detective series and his new standalone novel “The C.I.,” 12:30 p.m. Thursday. Loganberry Books (13015 Larchmere Blvd., Shaker Heights): Lenny Pinna, editor of “A Face from Uranus: Correspondence Between Tedd Burr and Henry Bellamann 1943-1945,” talks about the gay Cleveland actor who died in 2012 and his friendship with the bestselling author (“King’s Row”), 6:30 p.m. Thursday. Mac’s Backs (1820 Coventry Road, Cleveland): Cleveland author Dan Chaon launches the paperback version of his darkly funny novel “Sleepwalk” with his son Phil Chaon, author of “Habitats of the World: A Field Guide for Birders, Naturalists and Ecologists,” 7 to 8 p.m. Thursday. Music Box Supper Club (1148 Main Ave., Cleveland): Les Roberts joins the Cleveland Stories Dinner Party series, 7 p.m. Thursday. Dinner is $25; the lecture is free. Go to musicboxcle.com. Dover Public Library (525 N. Walnut St.): At 6 p.m. Friday, Robin Yocum kicks off the Canal Town Book Festival, talking about his books including the Edgar-nominated “A Brilliant Death.” The festival, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday, will feature more than thirty authors at the corner of Wooster Avenue and Third Street. Learned Owl Book Shop (204 N. Main St., Hudson): Shannon Spyker signs her middle-grade fantasy “The Way of the River: Kellandale Wood,” 1 to 3 p.m. Saturday. Massillon Public Library (208 Lincoln Way E.): Hope Bolinger, author of “Dear Hero” and “Dear Henchman,” talks about her work from 1 to 2:30 p.m. Saturday. Register at massillonlibrary.org. Email information about books of local interest, and event notices at least two weeks in advance to BeaconBookTalk@gmail.com and bjnews@thebeaconjournal.com. Barbara McIntyre tweets at @BarbaraMcI. Book Talk: ‘World’s Worst Time Machine’ is inventive tale Book Talk: ‘The New Guys’ has the right stuff This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: ‘A Renaissance of Our Own’ is a memoir and manifesto by Rachel Cargle New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.