
            Sticking up for yourself is no easy task. But there are concrete skills you can use to hone your assertiveness and advocate for yourself.
        Verified by Psychology Today 
                                    Posted October 13, 2023

|


Reviewed by Ray Parker


 In 1968, Charles Portis’ book True Grit was released. The book and two subsequent movies told the story of a young woman’s pursuit of justice in the American West circa the 1870s. But that plot was more window dressing for a far more interesting story of an aging, curmudgeonly U.S. marshal who went by the moniker Rooster Cogburn. Cogburn was the agent through whom Mattie Ross would seek justice for her father's death. That pursuit would be an arduous and dangerous endeavor. Mattie chose Cogburn over other lawmen for this ordeal because he possessed a trait she believed was essential. When Mattie first meets Marshal Cogburn, she describes that trait, “They tell me you are a man of true grit.” So, what is “grit,” and why is it important? Simply said, grit may be considered a strength of character and an indomitable attitude. Grit is important because it is associated with a prophetic, optimistic attitude and tenacious pattern of behavior. Science teaches us that fortitude is likely a more powerful predictor of success than aptitude (Oden, 1968). Marshal Cogburn is portrayed as an imperfect person with a somewhat dubious past, but who in later life seemed to follow a more steady moral compass, at least in matters of concern to Mattie. Mary Pickford once famously said, “This thing we call ‘failure’ is not the falling, but the staying down. The past cannot be changed. The future is yet in your power.” Over the last 43 years, I have continued to review and analyze the nature of “true grit" as it has revealed itself among disaster survivors, special-forces operators, law enforcement, healthcare professionals, and even professional athletes. Though it goes by many names in the previous and extant literature, several recurring themes seem associated with the strength of character and indomitable human resilience (Everly & Lating, 2019). People with “true grit”...: And the great news, according to Mary Pickford, is, “If you have made mistakes, even serious mistakes, you may have a fresh start any moment you choose.” That is the story of Cogburn. But perhaps the most compelling story of true grit resides with Ross, who found justice for her father. Rather than feel sorry for herself, she was guided by a strong moral compass and tenaciously sought to take control of the pursuit of justice when the system failed her. Fearlessly, she rejected the convention that she was too young and incapable. In the final analysis, Ross, more than Cogburn, exemplified the notion, "With strength of mind and true grit, destiny will follow." © George S. Everly, Jr., PhD, 2023. References Everly, GS, Jr. & Lating, JM (2019). A clinical guide to the treatment of the human stress response. NY: Springer. Oden, M. H. (1968). The fulfillment of promise: 40 year follow up of the Terman gifted group (Vol. 77). Stanford University Press. Portis, Charles (1968). True Grit. NY: Simon and Schuster. George S. Everly, Jr., Ph.D. serves on the faculties of Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine 
            Get the help you need from a therapist near you–a FREE service from Psychology Today.
       Psychology Today © 2024 Sussex Publishers, LLC 
            Sticking up for yourself is no easy task. But there are concrete skills you can use to hone your assertiveness and advocate for yourself.
      