Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Tom Horton
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein
 
Updated on:  October 23, 2023 / 4:33 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Meal kit delivery services can really make a difference for seniors who just want the occasional break from soup-to-nuts menu creation. Senior-friendly meal kits cater to some of those needs, and even some other limitations that come with older age. They're great for providing low-sodium, nutrient-rich dishes that can help with everything from weight management to simply making dinnertime a less stressful experience. And all that can lead to better health. "Many meal kits come with nutrient-rich meals such as lean proteins, fresh vegetables, whole grains, and healthy fats... make sure to check the nutrition information [of each meal]," says Jennifer May, principle nutritionist and director of Sydney City Nutritionist and Food Intolerance Australia. May goes on to recommend that seniors aim for 20 grams of protein, 8 to 10 grams of fiber, and no more than 200 milligrams of sodium for a well-balanced meal. We looked at the nutrition facts for each meal service listed below to make sure seniors would have an easy time picking healthy meals with every delivery. The best meal kits for seniors will offer up simpler ways to stay healthy with nutritious meals. It's all about simplicity and nutrition, and every senior-friendly meal kit on this list checks both boxes. Here's a closer look at the best meal kits for older adults looking for easy, healthy dinner options. For older adults, convenience can become a crucial part of life – one that keeps things from getting too strenuous or overwhelming. These senior meal kits all have options that can take much of the effort out of cooking a fresh dinner. SunBasket is a top-notch meal kit company that offers health-conscious meal delivery options. Its weekly menu is perfect for seniors looking for organic ingredients. It's nothing but farm-fresh ingredients in every meal, so older adults can enjoy a wide selection of meal options each week.  This healthy meal delivery service is dedicated to serving USDA-certified organic ingredients with every meal. Additionally, its recipes contain meat and poultry that was sustainably sourced from local farmers who work directly with SunBasket. You can find a variety of senior meals to match different dietary needs on SunBasket's weekly menu. Labels clearly indicate low-carb options and meals that are heart healthy and keto-friendly, among others.  For quick and easy dinners that are as healthy as they are tasty, look no further than SunBasket. Prices start at $10 per serving, but first-time customers can snag a deal that brings that down to just $5 per serving. This discount kicks in automatically when you're building a plan and takes off $90 across your first four deliveries -- plus free shipping! Pros Cons Why we went with SunBasket: This meal kit's dedication to sustainably sourced ingredients and variety of nutritious, diet-friendly, and heart healthy meals solidified what we already knew: SunBasket is as rewarding for seniors as it is healthy. Home Chef is an ideal meal kit option for quick and easy cooking. It has recipes that are ready in as little as 15 minutes, which can be perfect for older adults who love to cook but don't relish the thought of spending forever in the kitchen.  Seniors can enjoy an easy, breezy cooking experience with Home Chef's express meals. These come pre-portioned and with recipes that can be whipped up in a matter of minutes.  For something even easier, there are Home Chef's Fast and Fresh meals: These premade meals can be prepared in the microwave or oven, resulting in a finished meal that takes mere minutes to prepare.  Home Chef also caters to certain dietary restrictions. For seniors who want to avoid chef meals with certain ingredients such as pork, shellfish, or peanuts, it's super easy to build a senior meal plan that excludes these options. Home Chef has weekly meal plans for up to six people and offers anywhere from two to six recipes every week. Price per serving starts at around $10, depending on your plan. Some premium meals, which can be found in the Culinary Collection section, can go up to $14 per serving.  But wait, there's more: first-time customers can currently save big on their first few orders. This discount boasts 18 free meals (spread out across four deliveries) and is automatically applied as you build your plan, so no need to worry about missing out. There are also discounts for military veterans, first responders, teachers, students, and government officials.  Pros Cons Why we chose Home Chef: Customizable meals? Cook times under 20 minutes? Additional options like premade meals that require very little effort? Picking Home Chef as an easy and engaging senior-friendly meal kit was a real no-brainer. Magic Kitchen is a meal kit delivery service that specializes in quick and easy meals for seniors. Unlike some companies on this list that have a number of senior-friendly options mixed in with their weekly offerings, Magic Kitchen puts older adults first, with homestyle frozen meals that are ready within minutes. Available nationwide to US-based customers, Magic Kitchen meals consist of a main course paired with one or two sides. You can mix and match main dishes, soups, sides, and even desserts when putting together your nutritious meal plan. Unlike other subscription models, Magic Kitchen offers what it calls Flex Subscriptions. This senior-friendly design makes it easy for older adults to navigate meal kit options and make selections, because customers actually call in to set up a three or six-month plan with a representative directly. You can discuss dietary preferences and place orders with ease right over the phone. As an added perk, Magic Kitchen offers free shipping and other discounts off your order when you order with a Flex Subscription. The typical price per serving starts at $10. Any offers for free shipping are a big deal (so don't miss out) because shipping fees for Magic Kitchen are based on weight and distance and typically start at $19 per box.  Pros Cons Why we highlighted Home Chef: Magic Kitchen is a true senior-friendly meal kit service with simple meals that are easy to prepare and a system that allows over-the-phone orders. Based out of Texas, Snap Kitchen is a meal kit delivery service that focuses on quality with organic and sustainably sourced ingredients. Frozen meals are delivered to your door and can be ready in no time at all – no time-consuming prep work required. Snap Kitchen is a great senior meal delivery service for older adults looking for consistently healthy meals to get them through the week. In addition to nutrient-packed dinner options, you can also find a variety of breakfast and lunch recipes to try out. Meals are customizable, with the option to add extras like sides, snacks, or other sources of protein to really round out your daily health goals.  If you live alone, you're probably familiar with the problem of unused leftovers. With Snap Kitchen's single-serve meals, not only do you get exactly what you need for those solo meals – you can also easily store extra meals in the freezer to last you throughout the week. Snap Kitchen has locations in the Austin, Houston, and Dallas-Fort Worth areas of Texas. Snap Kitchen meal kits can also be found at more than 40 different Whole Foods locations in Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Oklahoma.  If you want fresh, ready-made, and home delivered meals that take little to no prep time, then Factor has the nutritious and satisfying meals for you. Its gourmet chefs put together fresh and never-frozen dinners that support healthy eating. Anyone sticking to a lean diet will find plenty of options to choose from here with over 30 dietitian-approved meals to choose from each week. Factor challenges the stigma that a lean diet means avoiding gourmet-level recipes in favor of nutritious, yet plain, combinations (there's only so many ways to prepare grilled chicken and white rice, after all). Meals like Factor's Creamy Parmesan Chicken, Ground Pork and Cheddar Chili Mac, and Garlic-Mushroom Chicken Thighs look almost out of place with a healthy meal delivery service centered around low-carb, health-conscious recipes. Instead of a subscription model, Factor lets you pick your own items when setting up your weekly deliveries. You can find those and more while you put together a delivery plan that lets you select up to 18 home delivered meals each week. Normally priced at $11 per serving and up, Factor is currently 50% off for new subscribers. Sign up now for prices as low as $5.50 per serving, plus free wellness shots for life. For seniors that would feel their best on a gluten-free diet, Green Chef is our go-to pick. One of the best gluten-free meal kits available today, Green Chef offers a refreshing variety of healthy, organic meals. This meal kit delivery service is certified as a gluten-free safe spot by the gluten-tolerance group, which means Green Chef follows strict food safety best practices that reduce the risk of issues like cross-contamination. There are plenty of gluten-free options to choose from here, such as a number of vegan and plant-based entrees available each week. This is also a top-tier meal delivery service for other dietary preferences -- you can find low-carb, grain-free, keto-, and paleo-friendly meals. New Green Chef subscribers can enjoy a total of $430 in savings spread across their first 9 deliveries. There are a number of factors to consider when picking the right meal delivery service for a well-balanced, senior-friendly diet. First off: Protein, says Reda Elmardi, a registered dietitian. Maybe think tofu or legumes, plus vegetables for important vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants; fruit as a source of extra vitamin C; and whole grains. "Whole grain pasta, bread, cereal bars, etc., are great sources of complex carbohydrates that will help regulate blood sugar levels throughout the day," Elmardi says. Find more fitness and nutrition insights on Elmardi's website, activbuilt.com. Aside from finding senior meal delivery services that contribute to a well-balanced diet, here are a few other points of reference to keep in mind: The right meal delivery service can greatly benefit seniors by providing satisfying and nutritious meals that require little to no prep work. Older adults with mobility issues can skip those tiring grocery store trips and opt for premade home delivered meals or frozen meals instead.  The range of diet-friendly meals offered by the above companies can make it much easier to stick to a healthy routine when it comes to nightly dinners. Senior-friendly meal kit services like Magic Kitchen go a step further with prompt customer service and flexible meal plans that make it easy for seniors to place their own orders. Lastly, meal kits can bring a bit of joy to the process of cooking. Seniors can enjoy all sorts of new and interesting dishes, often with easy-to-follow instructions that take a fraction of the time a traditional home-cooked meal would require. When comparing meal kits for older adults, we made sure to prioritize nutrition, ease of preparation, and overall costs. We also kept an eye out for companies with good customer service. That way, we know any questions or concerns about a senior meal delivery service will be answered promptly and politely. For a closer look at how we review products, here are the factors that went into our picks for the best senior-friendly meal kits:  Tom Horton is a resident health expert for CBS Essentials, with deep experience in topics ranging from chronic conditions to health-care devices to diet options. He lives in upstate New York, and draws his power from local bookstores, long hikes on a sunny day, and his cat Sammy. 
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          Hinge and Bumble are two of the most popular dating apps of 2024. We compare the two to see which is better.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the New Orleans Saints face the San Francisco 49es for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the Green Bay Packers face the Denver Broncos for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          The Premier League Chelsea vs. Manchester City soccer game will be played today. Find out how and when to watch.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Labor Day weekend will mark the end of the summer travel season. Here's how Americans are capping it off.
         
          A U.S. district judge said in her ruling that FuboTV was likely to be successful in proving that the joint venture would violate antitrust laws.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          As Democrats gather in Chicago for their national convention, parallels to the turbulent 1968 Democratic National Convention are apparent.
         
          Three presidents, leaders in Congress and other prominent members of the party are expected to address the Democratic National Convention.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Former New York Rep. George Santos pleaded guilty Monday to two federal felony charges for wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. CBS News congressional correspondent Scott MacFarlane has the latest.
         
          Two women from Oxford, Connecticut, were swept away by rushing water from flash flooding after heavy rains hit parts of the Northeast, according to a local official. CBS News' Nikki Battiste reports from Sandy Hook, and CBS News Bay Area meteorologist Zoe Mintz looks at what's ahead with the weather forecast.
         
          Secretary of State Antony Blinken is back in the Middle East and warned of a potentially final opportunity to rescue Israeli hostages in Gaza and establish a cease-fire in the war with Hamas. Wyre Davies with BBC News, a CBS News partner, has more.
         
          Vice President Kamala Harris will accept the Democratic nomination for president this week at the DNC in Chicago. Meanwhile, former President Donald Trump will hit battleground states to rally voters. CBS News campaign reporters Aaron Navarro and Jake Rosen have more.
         
          Three shot outside county courthouse in Kentucky; Two women dead after being swept away by flooding in Connecticut.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.