Have you ever looked outside and wondered why the air appears gray or hazy? Or wondered how fresh the air is on a sunny day with clear skies? By measuring air quality, we can determine how clean or polluted the sky is. Here is everything you need to know about navigating Phoenix's air quality. There are a few ways to check Phoenix's air quality that are simple and easy. You don't have to look at a full index if you don't want to. The air quality index (AQI) reports air quality on a daily basis. It is a tool that helps measures how clean or polluted the air around you is and if there are any associated health effects in your area that might be a concern for you. There are multiple maps that will show you a visual representation of the air quality in Phoenix. Here is a map that shows the air quality for multiple places around the Phoenix area. A real-time map is also embedded below: Air Quality Index - Today's Forecast According to the American Lung Association's 2023 State of the Air study, Phoenix ranks fifth worst in the country for ozone, seventh worst for year-round particle pollution and 13th worst for short term particle pollution. Despite this, Phoenix is seeing fewer unhealthy days with room for improvement according to an article written by the Arizona Republic. In depth:Phoenix ranks 5th in ozone pollution, but a new report finds fewer bad air days overall You can find the air quality index for the country, your state and your city in these different maps and sites. AQI's are color coded. They're based off of six main pollutants: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, ground-level ozone and particulate pollution (dust and smoke). Depending on the amount of pollutant in the air, an area will be assigned a number from 0-500 along with a specific color corresponding to a level of health concern. Phoenix ranked as one of the worst cities for air pollution in 2020 according to the American Lung Association's State of the Air report. Phoenix city ranked seventh for year-round particle pollution and 10th for short-term particle pollution. Phoenix did not manage to have cleaner air during COVID-19. Phoenix sustained poor ozone despite a reduction in emissions. Your questions, answered:Tell us how The Republic can help you A High Pollution Advisory (HPA) in Arizona is an order issued by the ADEQ when there is a high probability that pollution for ozone or particle matter levels will exceed the federal health standard. The advisories encourage people to limit activities that cause air pollution. Some activities may be illegal, such as: burning outdoor fires, residential wood burning, the use of an off-highway vehicle and the use of a leaf blower, according to ADEQ. An ongoing report from the ADEQ shows that ozone this year is significantly above the average ozone threshold. There have been 86 good days, 83 moderate days and 37 days exceeding the threshold. According to the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), air pollution affects everyone’s health, but certain groups like children and older adults, may be affected more. The NIEHS said the following are public health concerns based on air pollution: The city of Phoenix said they are implementing air quality programs to help reduce ozone and particulate pollution. These programs include transit, light rail, bikeways and pedestrian friendly developments that reduce vehicle emissions. They also intend to promote land use planning and more sustainable urban designs. "By 2050, Phoenix will achieve a level of air quality that is healthy for humans and the natural environment," the city of Phoenix wrote in an article. "This includes outperforming all federal standards and achieving a visibility index of good or excellent on 90% of days or more. According to the World Health Organization there are ten things you can do in order to fight against air pollution.