Get businessline apps on Connect with us TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS Connect With Us Get BusinessLine apps on By BL Bengaluru Bureau 
Comments
 
READ LATER
 Venture debt firm Stride Ventures has announced the first close of its third fund at $100 million and is targeting a final close of over $200 million Stride has 100+ portfolio companies, including SUGAR Cosmetics, The Good Glamm Group, Mensa Brands, Exotel, Yubi, MoneyView, VideoVerse, Miko, Perfios, HealthifyMe, Ace Turtle, and Waycool. “We are ecstatic to announce the first close of our third fund. Stride takes immense pride in being the largest contributor of credit to new-age businesses that has sanctioned over ₹5,000 crore in the Indian start-up ecosystem. Stride Ventures’ success in delivering value to its investors is a testament to our rigorous processes and strong internal governance structures,” said Ishpreet Gandhi, Founder and Managing Partner of Stride Ventures.  Also read: Incubators get ₹611-cr under Startup India Seed Fund Scheme so far The firm has also distributed over 100 per cent of its commitments, which included coupon payouts and principal redemptions, to the early investors of its Fund 1. “Stride’s founder-centric approach, coupled with the overwhelming support from our investors, enables us to keep raising the bar for the venture debt market in India. We see a growing demand for venture debt as startups look to optimise their capital structure and preserve equity for future rounds. With the launch of our third fund, we’re well-positioned to meet the unique debt requirements and global ambitions of Indian startups,” said Apoorva Sharma, Managing Partner at Stride Ventures.  Avaada Energy wins 280MW solar project from Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam  Zyngo EV Mobility raises $5 mn in pre-series A US bank runs could hurt Indian IT 3one4 Capital closes its fourth fund at $200 million Stride Ventures’ third fund has received backing from a varied group of institutional investors, including banks, insurance companies, and family offices.  Stride Ventures is a venture debt firm that provides customised debt solutions to startups in India in sectors such as consumer internet, fintech, SaaS, and B2B platforms.  
Comments
 BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines  for posting your comments.  We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber