The 50-year-old tenant has been evicted from the Wilson Court property Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters A tenant has been evicted and a flat closed after reports of children being used in a suspected crack cocaine conspiracy.  Magistrates have ordered that a Guisborough flat be closed for three months after hearing reports of ongoing antisocial behaviour and crime - including youngsters being used in a suspected crack cocaine dealing operation. Teesside Magistrates' Court was also told that machetes, combat knives and a rifle had been seen at the property at Wilson Court on Cleveland Street.   The 50-year-old female tenant has been evicted from the property after magistrates agreed to Redcar and Cleveland Council ’s closure order application recently.   READ MORE: Fraudster falsely imprisoned pensioner by 'tying up her arms and legs' in Norton robbery    The council’s antisocial behaviour officers started logging reports of antisocial behaviour related to drug dealing in recent months which included suspected drug dealing at all hours, people banging on the windows for deals, reports of knives and a rifle being moved in and out of the property, children being used for suspected drug deals and stolen vehicles and property at the address. A number of police intelligence reports in June – including one which indicated children as young as 12 were being used for drug crimes - led to a raid. In total over 25 incidents and police intelligence reports relating to the property were made. Anonymous statements were given confirming the anti-social behaviour which began earlier this year. The court heard that the housing provider of the property supported the application for a court order.  Cllr Adam Brook, Cabinet member for neighbourhoods and housing, said: “People in this area deserve peace and to feel safe in their own homes and this kind of behaviour simply cannot be tolerated. I’d like to thank our anti-social behaviour officers, Cleveland Police, and anyone else involved in doing what it took to secure this positive result for the decent people of the area.”  Cleveland Police Inspector Neil Deluce added: “Drug dealing and the almost inevitable associated other crime and anti-social behaviour can cause untold misery to the law-abiding majority in our communities, and we simply will not tolerate this behaviour. We welcome information and evidence from those members of the community who tell us what is happening and who is involved and we use the intelligence provided to take enforcement action. “Similarly, Cleveland Police will continue to support our local authority colleagues to obtain closure orders for properties involved in criminality and anti-social behaviour." 