February, 14, 2023 Sujan Malawana, Commercial Director - Air and Sea freight, Speedmark Transportation Lanka (PVT) Limited was recently named Supply Chain Management CEO of the year 2022 in an event hosted by CEO Sri Lanka. Having worked in the industry for over 18 years, Mr Malawana specializes in Supply Chain Management, Ocean Freight, Air freight, Warehousing (General and Temperature Controlled) Multi-Country Consolidation Operations, 3PL, 4PL and 5PL plus values added services such as barcoding and pick-pack operations. Speaking on the award, Sujan Malawana, Commercial Director - Air and Sea freight, Speedmark Transportation Lanka Limited said, “I would like to thank CEO Sri Lanka for honouring me with this award. It is truly humbling to receive this accolade. I would like to thank my family (my team) for their support and look forward to continuing to offer excellence in logistics to domestic and international clients." Mr Malawana holds a BA/BSC in Business Management and HR from the University of Derby/UK, an in MBA Business Management from the University of Wales, and is IATA DGR Certificate (DGR Cargo). A firm believer in remaining completely up-to-date in all logistics standards, he continuously updates his skills, ensuring Speedmark Transportation Lanka (PVT) Limited remains on the leading edge of the logistics industry in compliance with ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) principals at the heart of its operation. Established in 1988, Speedmark Transportation (PVT) Lanka Limited offers end to end logistics solutions throughout the supply chain. Covering air, ocean, domestic haulage and 3PL, 4PL, 5PL logistics, cargo consolidations (Domestic & Muti-Country) the company has been awarded multiple accolades from leading shipping lines and airlines during its tenure. Speedmark is a Great Place To Work Certified Company, celebrating its 35th Anniversary, and retains an employee retention rate of over 60% of staff for over 10 years with 99% of the staff saying Speedmark Sri Lanka is a Great Place To Work.  Sujan Malawana, Commercial Director - Air and Sea freight, Speedmark Transportation Lanka (PVT) Limited receiving the award for Supply Chain Management CEO of the year 2022   Photo captions : Sujan Malawana, Commercial Director - Air and Sea freight, Speedmark Transportation Lanka (PVT) Limited. Video Story