Health information management (HIM) is a diverse yet evolving field that incorporates
                        medicine, management, finance, information technology, and law into one dynamic career
                        path.  The Baccalaureate Degree can be completed online.   Learn More  Health information management (HIM) is a diverse yet evolving field that incorporates
                                    medicine, management, finance, information technology, and law into one dynamic career
                                    path.  The major in health information management is designed to prepare students
                                    with skills and competencies in health data management, data analytics and informatics,
                                    information governance, privacy and security, compliance, clinical documentation improvement,
                                    revenue cycle management, medical coding, administering health information technology
                                    and administrative and clinical work flow. Job opportunities for baccalaureate degree graduates exist in multiple settings throughout
                                 the healthcare industry. These organizations include hospitals, multi-specialty clinics
                                 and physician practices, long-term care, mental health, and other ambulatory care
                                 settings. The profession has seen significant expansion in non-patient care settings,
                                 with careers in managed care and insurance companies, software vendors, consulting
                                 services, government agencies, education, and pharmaceutical companies. Jobs may include
                                 medical coder or biller, data analyst, revenue cycle analyst, clinical documentation
                                 improvement specialist, tumor registrar, office manager, HIM director, and many more.
                                 Visit AHIMA's Career Map for additional information on job titles, descriptions, salaries, and career pathways. Since acceptance of transfer credit for a particular major is subject to approval
                                    by the appropriate academic department, the HIM program director is responsible for
                                    the determination of transfer credit for HIM courses.  For students transferring from
                                    CAHIIM Accredited programs, as appropriate, HIM courses will be accepted as equivalent
                                    to WKU HIM program courses within the same course level (lower levels: 100-200 and
                                    upper level: 300-400) courses.  HIT/HIM courses from regionally accredited schools
                                    that are non-CAHIIM accredited may be accepted as equivalent to WKU HIM program courses
                                    within the same course level (lower levels: 100-200 and upper level: 300-400) courses. 
                                    Articulation agreements are in place between WKU and many universities and colleges. 
                                    All others will be reviewed for course equivalency on a case-by-case basis.   A student can petition for acceptance of credit from HIT/HIM courses from non-regionally
                                    accredited schools by completing the Petition for Acceptance of Credit form.  If the program was a CAHIIM Accredited Program, please contact jan.hunt-shepherd@wku.edu.     A student may be required to provide a description and syllabus for each course; the
                                    transferring institution may be contacted for additional information.  Credit may
                                    be given for each approved equivalent course if the University minimum residence requirement
                                    for the baccalaureate degree is maintained.    Student Achievement & Outcomes 2022-2023 Student Outcomes:  The Health Information Management accreditor of Western Kentucky University is the
                        Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education
                        (CAHIIM).  The College’s accreditation for BACCALAUREATE degree in Health Information Management
                        has been reaffirmed through 2026.  All inquiries about the program’s accreditation status should be directed by mail
                        to CAHIIM, 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100, Chicago, IL, 60601; by phone at 312.235.3255
                        or by email at info@cahiim.org. Scholarships & Financial Aid Jan Hunt-Shepherd, MHA, RHIA, CCS, CDIP, CPHQ Phone: (270) 745-3548 Academic Complex 138     Some of the links on this page may require additional software to view.