The world of social media is constantly evolving as new apps and trends emerge that pique the interest of users. With so much consistent change, it can be hard to know the best way to market a business’s services or products on social media from year to year. As leaders in their industry, the members of Forbes Communications Council know how to best track and leverage the latest social media trends to reach a target audience. Below, 15 members share their predictions for which social media trends will dominate in 2023 and how marketers can gain an advantage by jumping on them early. Members pictured from left to right. There will be a migration of users from Twitter to LinkedIn. As a result, the previous professionalism of LinkedIn will become more humanized. People will share more personal experiences that define leadership and be more open about challenges in the workplace. Marketers should leverage this to help humanize their brands and build stronger connections with customers. - Mariana Prado Cogan, People.ai I predict two trends: a reactionary move to private networks and a move to use AI tools more in content and marketing. The first will require an excellent understanding of community. The second will require an excellent understanding of copyright, as many AI tools for art, music and writing plagiarize a certain percentage of existing, often marginalized, creatives as source material for the end results. - Leslie Poston, Austin Data Labs 2023 is going to see a move away from relying on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter for paid ads and growth initiated on platforms such as Reddit. While the larger networks are forcing us to bow to their machines, smaller platforms allow for greater targeting and a better connection with the audience. Plus, the spending will really offer us bang for our buck. - Alexia Bregman, The Bureau Of Small Projects Authentic, unpolished content and a concerted focus on personalized interactions are paramount to social media success in 2023. To prepare, marketing leaders need to expand their idea of who can contribute to this type of content. Considering team members, even those outside of traditional social media roles, with unique skill sets and perspectives will be key to taking advantage of this trend. - Jamie Gilpin, Sprout Social, Inc. Forbes Communications Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? With a softening market, CMOs will once again need to do more with less in 2023. Marketers looking to reach an engaged audience cost-effectively should take advantage of the rise in local search. Optimize your local digital visibility through business profiles on sites such as Google to increase your chances of appearing in more local searches, and promote special offers via free posting capabilities. - Monica Ho, SOCi Short-form is the way to go. Attention spans are getting shorter and so should your online content. We’ve all seen the success of TikTok and YouTube Shorts. Be prepared for even more bite-sized content trends in 2023. If you haven’t already, start your business account on the right platforms now, and make sure your marketing teams are equipped to create high-quality short videos. - Asad Kausar, Dabaran I see a very rapid growth of open-source AI platforms, which marketers will need to quickly get into. Consumers are looking for structured information in these emerging platforms and are also providing material data. Moreover, for repetitive marketing tasks (SEO optimization, for example), AI provides a better cost-benefit ratio to clients than agencies can—it’s not as good, but it’s cheaper and faster. - Roy Hutchinson, Squnq Capital LLC 2023 is going to be the year of social saturation. With more than ten active social media channels, it can be hard to get your message to the right person at the right time. It’s overwhelming for the viewer. This means you need to find a way into the hearts and minds of your target audience to ensure your brand message is seen consistently. - Jeanniey Walden, LiftOff Enterprises Consumer-facing social media companies are chasing TikTok. They are increasing their focus on video content and adding more content discovery opportunities. This means that marketers who want to reach consumers need to focus on their video, influencer, community and user-generated content strategies to increase reach across platforms. - Tom Treanor, Snipp Interactive Disruption and change are both coming to social media in 2023. Marketers need to be prepared to shift their focus if one or more of their key platforms shift in such a way that marketing on it becomes nonviable for a short or long period of time. It will be an important time to diversify your social media strategy so that you aren’t tied to any specific platform long-term. - Tom Wozniak, OPTIZMO Technologies, LLC I’d like to see marketers on LinkedIn and other B2B platforms bring their whole, authentic selves to their work. Audiences want brands to speak to their truths, and employees want to bring their own passions to the table as well. I anticipate social media will continue to open up space for real and honest communication between marketers and audiences, and this will become the norm in our feeds. - Alyssa Kopelman, Healthline Media Something big will go wrong with Twitter or TikTok, or both, that will cause brands to move away from these platforms. The time is now to diversify your reach both on other social platforms and through owned media channels (a blog, a podcast, and such) to protect you from damaging your brand halo merely through your presence on a tainted social media platform. - Robert Neely, Lima One Capital Great leaders have stellar communicators to help them share their message with wider audiences. This used to take the form of a chief of staff, business manager or communications leader. As great leaders now have millions of people to share their thoughts with, and limited time, we will see social media presences managed via expert third-party companies, which will drive leaders to become influencers. - Jonathan Shroyer, Arise Gaming I see a renaissance of the written word, even as short- and long-form video gains more speed. The social spaces our brands occupy are becoming increasingly crowded every day, and that could cause some consumer fatigue. Having a strategy that not only fully embraces video but also finds alternative forms of communication will reach an audience in a way that feels fresh and different for 2023. - Melissa Kandel, little word studio 2023 will be the year of transparency. Your social media audiences will want you to be clear and honest—and if you’re not, they will call you out on it! - Ben Chodor, Notified 