Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account  Follow us All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. The Wimbledon Men's singles final always brings out the big dogs. Yesterday was no different. And one of biggest of them all was Brad Pitt, who took to the stands with the Princess of Wales, Wicked co-stars Ariana Grande, and Jonathan Bailey. Lots of Ralph Lauren. Lots of hushed silences. Lots of very nice and normal suits. But not for Pitt. The actor, who took a break from filming his upcoming Grand Prix movie, invoked the awesome power of a knitted polo: a 1950s classic that's started doing the rounds again as the new muscle fit that's a lot nicer to look at than actual muscle fit. It was muted in colour, but still stood out among the sea of suits and ties. Paired with Aviator shades, it was inherently Pitt: low lift Hollywood style that works everywhere else.  Farfetch Granted, it's not as experimental as some of Pitt's past fits. But this is Wimbledon: a place where suits are kinda mandatory, and ties are essential for the Royal Box. There's got to be some effort. And a knitted polo does just that, but still has an element of effortlessness to it. But we've been yelling about the power of a knitted polo shirt for some time. It's one of those timeless pieces of clothing that just work, and it was one of the many talents of Mr Ripley that launched the piece to fame ever since #menswear Instagram accounts chugged through the 1999 hit once more. They're smarter than the sportier style and will suit any function. Wedding. Yep. Office. Sure. Dinner date. Couldn't get much better. And, as Pitt has proved, even the high tower on Centre Court. How Lewis Hamilton is turning Brad Pitt into a proper F1 driver 5 reasons why we're very, very worried about Wonka Cillian Murphy and Robert Downey Jr are accidentally making Oppenheimer a movie about menswear 10 best true story movies for unlimited thrills I want to kill Hugh Grant's Wonka Oompa-Loompa with a hammer See More Stories Condé Nast Britain © 2024 Condé Nast