From JW Anderson to Marc Jacobs and Jill Sander, the summer sales has just kickstarted and you're in for a treat! Shop these luxury brands on trusted shopping sites like Net-A-Porter, MyTheresa and Farfetch that ship to Singapore directly, to get the best summer steals. Right now, we're seeing up to 70% off on some of your favourite luxury brands that have the highest craftmanship, so you'll be having on hand a beautiful luxe piece that will last for years. Take these bags to work, or even better, to your next vacation for your next #OOTD snap. READ: Luxury bag brand Abara marks its grand opening at Takashimaya Shopping Centre 10 Dior book tote dupes that are affordable Robinsons Hotel Collection Silk Pillowcase review. It's 61% off now! G-Dragon, Wang Yi Bo, Zhou Xun and more stars spotted at Chanel Cruise 2023/24 show S$600 S$1,499 at Net-A-Porter JW Anderson puts a cool, modern spin on this season's trending baguette bag. Made from metallic leather, it's offset with tonal logo hardware at the front flap, while the strap is tipped with a chunky sailor knot-inspired chain. S$405 S$809.47 at Net-A-Porter Alexander Wang's tote has a wide top handle that's ruched and scrunched. Decorated in tiny crystals arranged to depict 'a' logos, it's made from light-green satin in a slouchy, rounded shape and lined in twill. The base is embroidered with the designer's logo. S$342 S$684 at Net-A-Porter Anya Hindmarch's bag is intricately woven from textural raffia and features the label's signature 'Eyes'. It's designed in a boxy shape that'll fit your cardholder and keys. The adjustable strap allows you to wear it crossbody or over your shoulder. S$412 S$1,029 at Net-A-Porter Paco Rabanne captures the scenic beauty of golden hour with this beach-ready tote. It's made from durable cotton canvas and is roomy enough to fit all your essentials, making it an ideal vacation companion. Printed with a golden sky and palm-fringed shoreline, even the internal logo is stitched in sunset hues. S$867 S$1,680 at Net-A-Porter Jil Sander's shoulder bag has a triple-strand strap, which has been carefully braided and knotted by hand. This medium version has been made in Italy from smooth leather in a slim yet spacious shape. Wear it cross-body while running errands. S$759 S$1,519 at MyTheresa The newest addition to Victoria Beckham's line of elegant accessories is the Chain shoulder bag. Crafted from smooth leather, this structured satchel style is finished with namesake golden hardware and an adjustable strap. S$333 S$667 at MyTheresa Embrace the rustic-chic trend with this capacious, striped tote bag from Etro. It's woven from straw with leather trims and a self-tie closure. An emblem of Etro since 1968, the mythological Pegaso signifies a spirit of freedom and discovery. S$227 S$455 at MyTheresa Opt for easy-carry luxe handbags for busy days. As demonstrated by the domed Demi-Lune silhouette, A.P.C. knows how to balance minimalism with mainstay cool. Crafted from leather, this piece features a shoulder strap for practicality. S$274 S$549 at MyTheresa This iteration of The J Marc Mini shoulder bag will make a statement on your next night out. The scintillating style is adorned with colour-changing sequins and offers three ways to carry for versatile styling. Refresh your accessories edit with the Mini leather shoulder bag from Tod's. Crafted in Italy from smooth coral leather, this design features a chain shoulder strap and is finished with gold-toned T Timeless hardware. S$1,252 S$2,500 at Farfetch This black calf leather knuckle ring crossbody bag from Alexander McQueen features a knuckleduster design, logo print to the rear, and a foldover top to keep all your essentials. S$276 S$550 at Farfetch This nano crocodile-embossed bag comes in a beautiful midnight blue leather, featuring an embossed crocodile effect, an engraved logo, a single rounded top handle and a foldover top. S$542 S$1,080 at Farfetch This glossy Thabit patent-leather crossbody bag from Giuseppe Zanotti features a polished finish, gold-tone logo plaque, a foldover top with press-stud fastening, and a main compartment. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process A former Soviet aircraft carrier burned in a waterway near Shanghai over the weekend, the latest setback for the decommissioned warship since its conversion into a Chinese tourist attraction. Ex-president quickly broke away from prepared speech to accuse vice-president of being a communist and a fascist All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv Donald Trump has posted a series of AI-generated images on his Truth Social account falsely claiming that Taylor Swift has endorsed him for president. On Sunday night, Trump shared several screenshots of X posts showing women wearing “Swifties for Trump” shirts. Many of the photos appear to have been doctored, and one screenshot is of … Premier League clash delayed by 10 minutes with the Brazilian receiving lengthy treatment behind blankets before being stretchered off