MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More With our comparison partner,  Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. Anna Jamerson is an editor in North Carolina who specializes in auto insurance topics. In her free time, she loves reading, trying new restaurants and watching comedies.  Anna Jamerson is an editor in North Carolina who specializes in auto insurance topics. In her free time, she loves reading, trying new restaurants and watching comedies.  Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the top auto insurance providers When you compare Farmers Insurance and State Farm auto coverage, each company has its pros and cons. Farmers offers more coverage options, while State Farm typically has lower rates. We at the MarketWatch Guides team will give you an in-depth look at both providers to help you determine which is best for your needs. We’ll also offer two more recommendations for the best car insurance companies on the market. Always compare car insurance quotes from multiple providers to find the best fit.  Compare Car Insurance Rates With our comparison partner,     With our comparison partner,   Learn more about our methodology and editorial guidelines. We rate Farmers and State Farm by weighing cost data, looking at customer reviews and consumer reports and researching where each insurer’s services are available. We combine these scores to come up with our overall ratings. We use the same methodology to rate every insurance provider. Compare our ratings of Farmers and State Farm in the table below: Below are the pros and cons of State Farm car insurance: Read more: State Farm Insurance Review Below are the pros and cons of Farmers car insurance: Read more: Farmers Insurance Review According to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), State Farm is the largest car insurance provider in the country. The company held 18% of the market share in 2023. Farmers is also a large insurance provider, though its market share was significantly lower than State Farm at 4%.  Both companies offer a large variety of insurance coverage options ranging from standard to alternative coverages like classic car insurance, boat insurance and RV insurance. The table below lists each company’s years in business, industry ratings, J.D. Power rating and our award, if applicable. Because both Farmers and State Farm are large insurers, most customers can find the kind of coverage they need from either provider. When it comes to auto insurance options, the two companies tend to offer mostly the same kinds of coverage with a few small differences.  State Farm offers usage-based insurance in 47 states compared to 46 for Farmers. It also has a travel expense coverage add-on that Farmers doesn’t offer. Farmers offers more optional coverage choices than State Farm, however, including accident forgiveness, new car replacement coverage and glass and windshield coverage. The table below provides information about the insurance options and common add-ons available from Farmers and State Farm. Both offer the six standard types of coverage found in a full-coverage car insurance policy. Both Farmers and State Farm offer telematics insurance programs. The table below details each company’s usage-based insurance option. State Farm Drive Safe & Save won’t raise your rates if your driving habits don’t improve, but Farmers Signal can cause your insurance premium to go up. According to our 2024 rate data, full-coverage policies from Farmers cost an average of $3,495 per year, while minimum coverage costs $1,296 yearly. Full-coverage policies from State Farm cost an average of about $2,544 per year and minimum coverage costs $861 per year.  The national average cost of car insurance is $2,681 per year for full coverage and $869 per year for minimum coverage. These averages are based on the profile of a married 35-year-old driver with a good credit score and a clean driving record. Policyholders with either provider will usually see higher rates than other customers if their driving history includes traffic violations. We analyzed rate averages for multiple driver profiles with each company. Each quote is an annual rate for a full-coverage insurance policy. Below is a table comparing car insurance discounts from Farmers and State Farm. Farmers offers more of the discounts that are common in the industry. Both Farmers and State Farm offer discounts for bundling insurance products. This means if you have auto insurance from either company and bundle it with that same provider’s homeowners, renters or life insurance, for example, you can save money on all of your coverage. State Farm ranked fourth place with 695/1,000 points in the J.D. Power 2024 U.S. Insurance Shopping StudySM , which polled customers on their experiences comparing and buying insurance. Farmers ranked just below the study average of 676 with 667 points.  The table below shows Farmers’ and State Farm’s average customer review scores from the Better Business Bureau (BBB), Trustpilot and our April 2024 customer satisfaction survey of 2,000 policyholders. We also included ratings for each company’s mobile app. Keep in mind that while both companies have low scores from customers, these reviews only represent a small fraction of the insurers’ customers. Our review team reached out to Farmers for comment on these scores but did not receive a response. We also reached out to State Farm for comment — you can see their response and learn more in our full State Farm insurance review.  After comparing State Farm vs. Farmers, we believe both are reputable companies and solid choices for auto insurance. We give State Farm a higher overall score and stronger recommendation because of these factors: On the other hand, Farmers offers more add-on coverage options, making it a good choice for drivers who want to ensure their cars are covered in nearly any scenario. It’s best to compare quotes from several providers to find the best rates for car insurance. In addition to Farmers and State Farm, we recommend checking out USAA and Geico. If you’re an active-duty member of the military, a veteran or their immediate family member, you can get some of the cheapest car insurance available. USAA is known for its low cost and excellent customer service. It’s the fifth-largest auto insurance provider in the U.S. and holds an A++ financial strength rating from AM Best. Read more: USAA Insurance ReviewCompare providers: USAA vs. State Farm Geico has a reputation for affordable rates and great customer service, which has helped it become the country’s second-largest auto insurer. The company holds an A++ financial strength rating from AM Best, meaning it’s well-equipped to pay out insurance claims. Read more: Geico Insurance ReviewCompare providers: Geico vs. Farmers  With our comparison partner,  Below are some commonly frequently asked questions about State Farm vs. Farmers: No, State Farm and Farmers are separate companies. Both are large insurance providers that offer a wide variety of products, including car, life and homeowners insurance. In general, yes, State Farm has a reputation for handling claims thoroughly and quickly. The company scored above the industry average in the J.D. Power Auto Claims Satisfaction Study, earning 891 out of 1,000 points. According to our rate data, car insurance rates from Farmers tend to be higher than average. We found that the average full-coverage policy from Farmers costs $3,495 per year, which is about 30% more than the national average of $2,681. Because consumers rely on us to provide objective and accurate information, we created a comprehensive rating system to formulate our rankings of the best car insurance companies. We collected data on dozens of auto insurance providers to grade the companies on a wide range of ranking factors. The end result was an overall rating for each provider, with the insurers that scored the most points topping the list. Here are the factors our ratings take into account: Our credentials: *Data accurate at time of publication. If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. Anna Jamerson is an editor in North Carolina who specializes in auto insurance topics. In her free time, she loves reading, trying new restaurants and watching comedies.  Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.