By clicking a retailer link you consent to third-party cookies that track your onward journey. If you make a purchase, Which? will receive an affiliate commission, which supports our mission to be the UK's consumer champion. In this article Hastings Direct was launched in 1997. It's one of the largest UK insurance brokers, selling home, car and van insurance to more than three million customers. It's part of Hastings Insurance Services Limited, which also includes insurance brands InsurePink, People's Choice and Hastings SmartMiles. Its policies are underwritten by Advantage Insurance, AXA, Integra, Lloyds Bank, Prestige and RSA. Hastings Direct's standard policy is called Home Insurance. You can also buy a more comprehensive Premier policy. Its Essentials policy, meanwhile, is only available through comparison sites. The Home Insurance policy covers burst pipes and lost or stolen keys as standard. You can add on cover for accidental damage, home emergencies (which includes boiler cover) and personal possessions, plus legal protection. Check Which? insurance ratings and compare deals using the service provided by Confused.com We've rated dozens of insurers on their policies and, where possible, customer service. Members can log in to read our full reviews.  If you're not already a member, join Which? and get full access to these results and all our reviews.  We analyse and rate 21 aspects of buildings cover, 40 areas of contents cover, and 25 features applicable to both (such as admin fees). We use this data to award each provider policy scores for its buildings and contents cover.  Initially, we score all of the product elements out of five, reflecting how competitive each policy is in this area compared with other insurance products. We also assess how important different policy elements are to consumers when choosing and using their home insurance, and factor this in when calculating our policy scores. More important features (such as alternative accommodation cover) will have more of an effect on the score than some other features (such as cover for the contents of your freezer). To be a Which? Recommended Provider, an insurer must: Members can log in to read our full policy analysis. If you're not already a member, join Which? and get full access to these results and all our reviews. We've talked to customers who recently claimed to rate insurers on their customer and claims service.  Members can log in to see these scores. If you're not already a member, join Which? and get full access to these results and all our reviews. You can buy Hastings Direct home insurance online and over the phone, or on the following price comparison websites: It's cheapest to buy online, as new customers buying over the phone will pay a £12.50 arrangement fee (exemptions are made if the customer has no choice or is considered vulnerable).  There's a discount for buying both buildings and contents cover with Hastings Direct at the same time.  Some of the insurers on Hastings Direct's panel offer discounts to owners of Nacoss, NUD and SSAIB alarms. Find out more: how to get cheap home insurance quotes Check you're getting a great deal and search for a new home insurance policy using the service provided by Confused.com. Get a quote now You can make a home insurance claim with Hastings Direct by submitting a claim form online or by calling one of the following numbers, depending on which insurer underwrites your policy: Find out more: is it worth claiming on your home insurance? free newsletter Get a firmer grip on your finances with the expert tips in our Money newsletter – it's free weekly. This newsletter delivers free money-related content, along with other information about Which? Group products and services. Unsubscribe whenever you want. Your data will be processed in accordance with our Privacy policy  Find the right policy for your home using the service provided by Confused.com Find the right policy for your home using the service provided by Confused.com Latest News In 17 Aug 2024 15 Aug 2024 13 Aug 2024 10 Aug 2024 06 Aug 2024 05 Aug 2024 05 Aug 2024 04 Aug 2024 02 Aug 2024 30 Jul 2024 25 Jul 2024 23 Jul 2024 23 Jul 2024 18 Jul 2024 16 Jul 2024 15 Jul 2024 13 Jul 2024 12 Jul 2024 12 Jul 2024 06 Jul 2024 About Us Which? Limited is registered in England and Wales to 2 Marylebone Road, London NW1 4DF, company number 00677665  and is an Introducer Appointed Representative (FRN 610689) of the following:  1. Inspop.com Ltd for the introduction of non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635). Inspop.com Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635) and is registered in England and Wales to Greyfriars House, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, South Wales, CF10 3AL, company number 03857130. Confused.com is a trading name of Inspop.com Ltd.   2. LifeSearch Partners Limited (FRN656479), for the introduction of Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the FCA to provide advice and arrange Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance Contracts.  LifeSearch Partners Ltd is registered in England and Wales to 3000a Parkway, Whiteley, Hampshire, PO15 7FX, company number 03412386.  3. HUB Financial Solutions, for the introduction of equity release advice and an annuity comparison service, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) to provide advice and guidance on financial products for those who have retired or are approaching retirement (FCA Firm Reference Number: 455713). HUB Financial Solutions is registered in England and Wales to Enterprise House, Bancroft Road, Reigate, Surrey RH12 7RP, company number 05125701.  4. Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Ltd (FRN 301), for the introduction of non-investment landlord insurances, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide advice and arrange insurance contracts. Alan Boswell insurance brokers Ltd is registered in England at Prospect House, Rouen Rd, Norwich NR1 1RE, company number 02591252.  Other financial services: Mortgage service provided by London & Country Mortgages (L&C), Unit 26 (2.06), Newark Works, 2 Foundry Lane, Bath BA2 3GZ. London & Country are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (registered number: 143002). The FCA does not regulate most Buy to Let mortgages. Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.  We do not make, nor do we seek to make, any recommendations or personalised advice on financial products or services that are regulated by the FCA, as we’re not regulated or authorised by the FCA to advise you in this way. In some cases, however, we have included links to regulated brands or providers with whom we have a commercial relationship and, if you choose to, you can buy a product from our commercial partners.   If you go ahead and buy a product using our link, we will receive a commission to help fund our not-for-profit mission and our campaigns work as a champion for the UK consumer. Please note that a link alone does not constitute an endorsement by Which?. Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024