 Governor Josh Shapiro and Department of Agriculture Secretary Russell Redding toured Reinford Farms in Juniata County. JUNE 13, 2023 – MIFFLINTOWN, PA (Commonwealth Media Service photo). Happy weekend, all.  June is Dairy Month in Pennsylvania. To recognize the work of dairy farmers across the commonwealth and the impact of the dairy industry, Gov. Josh Shapiro and Agriculture Secretary Russell Redding toured a Juniata County dairy farm earlier this week. “Each person in Pennsylvania’s dairy industry – from the farm to the table – works 365 days a year to nourish our families with wholesome, high-quality products that support our lives and pour dollars into our economy to support our jobs and communities,” Redding said. “Dairy Month is a time to celebrate our dairy industry and show our appreciation for those who are in the barns, on the roads, on the processing line, and in the stores during hours that most of us are sleeping.” The commonwealth’s dairy industry supports more than 53,000 jobs, and contributes more than $14 billion to the economy, according to the Shapiro administration. “Pennsylvania dairy farmers are putting food on our tables while continuing a long tradition of agricultural excellence and innovation,” Shapiro said, speaking from Reinford Farms. Shapiro also spoke about agricultural investments in the proposed 2023-24 state budget.  “My administration is committed to partnering with our dairy farmers to position Pennsylvania as a leader in dairy production and sustainable farming and my budget is putting real dollars into this work – starting with $13.8 million to ensure the Pennsylvania Farm Bill is fully funded into its fifth year,” Shapiro said. As always, the top five stories from this week are below. 1. Chris Christie won’t win the GOP prez nomination. But he can serve a good purpose | Dick Polman There have been so many Chris Christies that I need to number them. Chris Christie 1.0, during the winter of 2015-16, mocked the notion that a reality-TV host had the credentials to lead the nation: “It’s all make believe, if you think that (Trump’s tinsel stardom) forms the experience to run a government as complicated as the United States government.” 2. Through a visitor’s eyes: What you say when you fly confederate colors in Pa. | Charles D. Allen This year marks my twentieth as a member of the U.S. Army War College faculty and resident of the greater Carlisle community. Each year we receive a new cohort of War College officer-students attending the resident education program. They come from diverse backgrounds and locations from across the nation. In addition, we have about 80 International Fellows from more than 70 countries. 3. Pa. extends the deadline to apply for property tax rent/rebates The deadline for older adults and Pennsylvanians with disabilities to apply for rebates on rent and property taxes paid in 2022 has been extended from June 30 to Dec. 21, acting state Revenue Secretary Pat Browne said Monday. “So far this year, we’ve already seen more than 50,000 of our rebate applicants use myPATH to file their applications online. This shows us that many of our customers are finding this online tool to be an easy way to make sure their applications are filed seamlessly and processed as quickly as possible,” Browne said in a statement. 4. Pa. U.S. Rep. Summer Lee hits GOP over vote to repeal stabilizing braces for pistols U.S. Rep. Summer Lee, D-12th District, criticized House Republicans during debate over a resolution to repeal a restriction on pistols that makes them easier to shoot. “Republicans chose to mark up this bill on the 7-year anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting,” Lee said on the House floor. “All the while, in my district, Tree of Life families are fighting for justice, facing the gunman who killed their loved ones in court.” 5. Shapiro’s master plan for older Pennsylvanian has good first steps | Ray E. Landis Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro traveled to Scranton recently to make a big announcement about older Pennsylvanians – the development of a 10-year “Master Plan” to guide the Commonwealth’s thinking and actions regarding the impact of a growing senior population. Shapiro’s declaration touched on key issues impacting seniors in Pennsylvania. Long-term living topped the list, but adequate and affordable housing, services provided by Area Agencies on Aging, and accommodations for disabled individuals were also highlighted. And that’s the week. We’ll see you back here next week.  by Cassie Miller, Pennsylvania Capital-Star June 17, 2023 by Cassie Miller, Pennsylvania Capital-Star June 17, 2023 Happy weekend, all.  June is Dairy Month in Pennsylvania. To recognize the work of dairy farmers across the commonwealth and the impact of the dairy industry, Gov. Josh Shapiro and Agriculture Secretary Russell Redding toured a Juniata County dairy farm earlier this week. “Each person in Pennsylvania’s dairy industry – from the farm to the table – works 365 days a year to nourish our families with wholesome, high-quality products that support our lives and pour dollars into our economy to support our jobs and communities,” Redding said. “Dairy Month is a time to celebrate our dairy industry and show our appreciation for those who are in the barns, on the roads, on the processing line, and in the stores during hours that most of us are sleeping.” The commonwealth’s dairy industry supports more than 53,000 jobs, and contributes more than $14 billion to the economy, according to the Shapiro administration. “Pennsylvania dairy farmers are putting food on our tables while continuing a long tradition of agricultural excellence and innovation,” Shapiro said, speaking from Reinford Farms. Shapiro also spoke about agricultural investments in the proposed 2023-24 state budget.  “My administration is committed to partnering with our dairy farmers to position Pennsylvania as a leader in dairy production and sustainable farming and my budget is putting real dollars into this work – starting with $13.8 million to ensure the Pennsylvania Farm Bill is fully funded into its fifth year,” Shapiro said. As always, the top five stories from this week are below. 1. Chris Christie won’t win the GOP prez nomination. But he can serve a good purpose | Dick Polman There have been so many Chris Christies that I need to number them. Chris Christie 1.0, during the winter of 2015-16, mocked the notion that a reality-TV host had the credentials to lead the nation: “It’s all make believe, if you think that (Trump’s tinsel stardom) forms the experience to run a government as complicated as the United States government.” 2. Through a visitor’s eyes: What you say when you fly confederate colors in Pa. | Charles D. Allen This year marks my twentieth as a member of the U.S. Army War College faculty and resident of the greater Carlisle community. Each year we receive a new cohort of War College officer-students attending the resident education program. They come from diverse backgrounds and locations from across the nation. In addition, we have about 80 International Fellows from more than 70 countries. 3. Pa. extends the deadline to apply for property tax rent/rebates The deadline for older adults and Pennsylvanians with disabilities to apply for rebates on rent and property taxes paid in 2022 has been extended from June 30 to Dec. 21, acting state Revenue Secretary Pat Browne said Monday. “So far this year, we’ve already seen more than 50,000 of our rebate applicants use myPATH to file their applications online. This shows us that many of our customers are finding this online tool to be an easy way to make sure their applications are filed seamlessly and processed as quickly as possible,” Browne said in a statement. 4. Pa. U.S. Rep. Summer Lee hits GOP over vote to repeal stabilizing braces for pistols U.S. Rep. Summer Lee, D-12th District, criticized House Republicans during debate over a resolution to repeal a restriction on pistols that makes them easier to shoot. “Republicans chose to mark up this bill on the 7-year anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting,” Lee said on the House floor. “All the while, in my district, Tree of Life families are fighting for justice, facing the gunman who killed their loved ones in court.” 5. Shapiro’s master plan for older Pennsylvanian has good first steps | Ray E. Landis Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro traveled to Scranton recently to make a big announcement about older Pennsylvanians – the development of a 10-year “Master Plan” to guide the Commonwealth’s thinking and actions regarding the impact of a growing senior population. Shapiro’s declaration touched on key issues impacting seniors in Pennsylvania. Long-term living topped the list, but adequate and affordable housing, services provided by Area Agencies on Aging, and accommodations for disabled individuals were also highlighted. And that’s the week. We’ll see you back here next week.  Pennsylvania Capital-Star is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Pennsylvania Capital-Star maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor Kim Lyons for questions: info@penncapital-star.com. Follow Pennsylvania Capital-Star on Facebook and X. Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. A native Pennsylvanian, Cassie Miller was the associate editor at the Capital-Star. DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT © Pennsylvania Capital-Star, 2024 v1.39.5 The Pennsylvania Capital-Star is a nonpartisan, nonprofit news site dedicated to honest and aggressive coverage of state government, politics and policy.  We’re part of States Newsroom, the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization.  DEIJ Policy | Ethics Policy | Privacy Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines.) © Pennsylvania Capital-Star, 2024