
                Agree & Join LinkedIn
               
      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
     The National Basketball Association is eyeing a potential $75 billion for its next media rights deal once the current one ends after the 2024-2025 season — and $100 billion wouldn't completely be out of the question. Either sum would be a blockbuster jump from the $24 billion combined deal the NBA signed with Disney’s ABC/ESPN and Warner Bros. Discovery’s TNT in 2014. The huge wild card this time around is the emergence of streaming, CNBC notes, with negotiations expected to heat up as Google's YouTube TV, Amazon, Apple and Netflix enter the fray.  
                Reporter @ CNBC | Media, Sports and Entertainment
             NBA rights deals only happen about once a decade. So they’re all important.

But this one, in particular, could be a media landscape-altering deal. That’s because the rise of ad-supported streaming services over the last year have made Netflix theoretically interested in live sports. It’s still too early to say what that will mean, but it’s a new wrinkle that may just add to the riches of the NBA as it decides how to divvy up rights. 

#nba #cnbc #sportsmedia #tv  
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Managing Editor for Business and Economy at NBC News; experienced newsroom leader
             The NBA on Netflix?

The streaming leader could be a player for National Basketball Association (NBA) media rights when they come up for negotiations in April. While Netflix and live sports haven't typically mixed, sports rights have emerged as the most important part of the shifting media landscape. It's the main thing keeping the cable bundle together, and streaming services, already struggling to be profitable, are increasingly moving in to the sports arena, so to speak. So the NBA is in a unique position to play kingmaker in media over the next year or so.

CNBC's Alex Sherman has the scoop.
https://lnkd.in/eWbtCtfy 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                2,898,527 followers
             The increasing importance of advertising-supported streaming services may give the NBA more potential suitors, perhaps even Netflix. 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Brand Lead | ex. Cash App, BlackRock, 360i, RAPP
             The Phoenix Suns National Basketball Association (NBA) franchise has launched “Suns Live,” a new streaming service that supplements its broadcasts by simulcasting the games online.

Suns Live will offer all locally broadcast games, including 70 regular season games and all five preseason contests, along with replays and original content including pregame, halftime and postgame shows. The Suns, which were previously on the Diamond Sports RSN which went bankrupt earlier this year announced their intention to launch the OTT service when it signed a multiyear deal with Gray TV in April to bring every locally broadcast game to viewers for free in a statewide distribution model utilizing Gray’s Phoenix television stations KTVK.

Two packaging options are availeble $109.99 per year or $14.99 per month. Fans can access original content today, with live game streams beginning with the first preseason game on Oct. 8 versus the Detroit Pistons.

#nba #streaming #brand #phoenixsuns #product 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Principal Success Manager, Slack | Founder, Sports Business Playbook
             
🤳  Jimmy Donaldson - better known as MrBeast - is the biggest YouTube star in the world, boasting over 180 million subscribers and 300 million across all of his platforms. He's leveraged this platform to start a number of ancillary revenue streams, including merchandise and consumer products.

And he's looking to leverage sports to market those products.

🍫  His snack company, Feastables, did $10 million in sales a few months after launching last year, and the company just announced a first-of-its-kind jersey patch partnership with the Charlotte Hornets earlier this week. 

Typically reserved for more established corporate entities, this deal is one of the largest, most visible partnerships with a content creator to date, and it represents a potential new category for sports entities to consider. 

Other content creators, including Logan Paul and KSI with their PRIME sports drink (partners include Arsenal F.C, FC Barcelona, Ultimate Fighting Championship, and FC Bayern München) and Dude Perfect with their training kit sponsorship of Burnley Football Club, have also started to get into the mix.

🔭 What are the vantage points of this deal?

- New Hornets owners Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall: They need to make a big splash and reinvigorate the fanbase after decades of mediocrity ironically under former owner Michael Jordan. This move is risky compared to traditional corporate deals, but it enters the Hornets into the national conversation and could enable them to grow their addressable fanbase, particularly with the coveted GenZ/Millennial audiences.

- MrBeast: Feastables has done well, and now he wants legitimacy and mainstream consumption. This move gives him both, and partnering with a small market club (and also one from his home state of North Carolina) likely comes with a lower price point and more creative freedom than if he were to target one of the more marquee franchises.

- NBA Commissioner Adam Silver: this is a deal that brings equal parts excitement and anxiety. Content creators can be volatile and create controversy, something he and other league executives don’t love. But they also represent some of the leading voices of the next generations, so there is the potential that this could usher in a new era of partnerships that drive the business forward. 


Enjoyed digging into this one further on this week's SBP 👇 

https://lnkd.in/g4rcGuf2 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Chief Revenue Officer at Brightcove | GTM leader in SaaS, Digital Media & Marketing Technology | ex-Google, AOL, Condé Nast
             Live sports to start the month of October are coming to Warner Bros. streaming app Max. Fans will now have the opportunity to select Add-ons that let them stream games from leagues that include the MLB, NBA, NHL, and March Madness.

Just the latest layer added to the streaming wars that are prioritizing live events such as sports that audiences will always clamor for. Providing more ease to fans and creating even more competition amongst these streaming giants.

#Max #Sports #LiveSports #WarnerBros 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Founder. Advisor. Public Speaker. Mentor.
             Mr Beast is putting his snack brand's logo on NBA jerseys

I keep talking about how the sporting and commercial landscape is changing. 

Well, here's another nod to that. 

Mr Beast will be the first-ever collaboration between a creator-led brand and an NBA franchise. And to be honest, I don't think this will be the last creator to cross over into the sporting space either.

Sport is changing, and so is the way creators are being viewed.

They're no longer just people making $$ through YouTube or other social media platforms - they're brands in their own right.

Now, this move from Mr Beast is clever for a few different reasons:

1. It allows him as a brand to commercialize himself (this will probably be the 1st of many sporting and other big brands to do a deal like this with him).
2. It enables him to build out a DTC business model and bring in new revenue streams.
3. He'll get MASS eyeballs on his brand and introduce him to a brand new audience of people who might not know who he is.

For brands - this is a powerful time to be tapping into the upward trajectory of sports and the crossover of creators into this space. 

Clubs are thinking about their kit launches as marketing campaigns.

👉 Mass appeal.
👉 Mass sales.
👉 Mass awareness.
👉 More fans.

It isn't just about the die-hard fans anymore.

It's about having true, aspiring role models that align with their values at the heart of their marketing but also to speak to their audience (when relevant!) about a new interest point. 

Genius.
https://lnkd.in/efcPGMPP 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
