A pensioner has racked up more than £42,000 in fines after returning a library book he borrowed 58 years ago. David Hickman, 76, drove back to his hometown of Dudley to "face the music" this week after forgetting to bring back ‘The Law for Motorists’. He was just 17 when he borrowed the book in 1964 to study up after being involved in a car accident. With overdue fines of 20p a day, librarians could have charged David £42,340 for the book but they waived the fees after hearing his amusing story. Read more: World's oldest animals: The record-breaking creatures who defied time He was waving to a group of teens from Dudley High School for Girls when he crashed his 1947 Ford Popular into a car belonging to town mayor Councillor W.G.K Griffiths. David was arrested and to make matters worse, the mayor was also a magistrate but luckily for him he did not sit on his case. Despite David’s attempts to use the book to get up to speed up on the law, the teenager was convicted of driving without due care and attention. Dudley Magistrates fined him £7 – around £175 in today’s money – and ordered him to cough up a further £3 in lawyers’ fees. After losing the case, David forgot to return the library book and it ended up being put in the back of a drawer. In 1970 David, a father-of-one, moved from Dudley to Battersea, in south London, and he took the book with him. Read more: Map shows the healthiest and unhealthiest areas of England and Wales Over the years, the book remained almost forgotten at the back of a drawer. David said: “I used to come across it now and then and think ‘I must pop that back next time I’m in Dudley. “I even considered posting it anonymously but then I decided I would face the music and take it back in person. "Fortunately, they saw the funny side." Dudley librarian Sharon Whitehouse added: “I’m thrilled to have the book returned, complete with its pre-computerisation cardboard tickets, and to hear the story behind it. “We’re hoping to donate it to The Black Country Museum.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.