
Ugo Aliogo writes on how Fidelity Bank Plc is driving Central Bank of Nigeria bid to ensure that all eligible Nigerians have access to basic financial services and a businessman call on Nigerians to participate in the bank’s GAIM 5 after winning N10 million in the last promo campaign Nigeria’s financial regulatory body, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has sought to ensure that all eligible Nigerians have access to basic financial services like savings account insurance, citing the alarming statistics of the country’s unbanked population, which currently makes up 3 percent of the world’s unbanked population. Stating the importance of this drive for financial inclusion is stating the obvious, as Nigeria currently ranks poorly among other economies in the world. To better the statistics of its people living below the poverty line, there need to be drastic measures set in place to change lives positively. In seeking to reach a 95 per cent financial inclusion target in Nigeria by 2024 as set by CBN, financial institutions aim to promote better financial sustainability habits, especially savings, among the people. 
One financial institution that is showing outstanding commitment to helping Nigerians cultivate a sustainable and healthy savings habit is Fidelity Bank Plc. The bank, charged by its vision to foster individual and economic development, is on a mission to ultimately help its customers live a financially sustainable lifestyle through life-changing initiatives. One such initiative that has yielded outstanding results and benefits for everyday Nigerians is the Get Alert in Millions (GAIM) Campaign, which was launched in 2016. Launched primarily to reward loyal customers, the savings promo has continued to play a pivotal role in encouraging customers and members of the public to imbibe a healthy savings culture.
Although the GAIM campaign is serving multiple purposes, a major feature is its life-changing impact on customers’ lives. Millions of Nigerians are making smart, life-changing financial decisions by participating in Fidelity Bank’s Get Alert in Millions promo. Just off the back of the GAIM Season 4 promo that saw several participants become millionaires and at least two participants winning a sum of N10 million each, the GAIM campaign, which is a part of the bank’s financial inclusion strategy, has kicked off again for a new season. GAIM Season 4 promo was an exciting one and many Nigerians smiled home after been rewarded by the bank. Such is the story of Justine Nwaozor, one of the winners in the recently concluded Get Alert in Millions (GAIM) Season 4 campaign, who couldn’t believe his luck when the draw rolled in his favor at the season’s grand finale. Nwaozor, a businessman, walked home with the grand prize of N10 million out of millions of qualified customers in the draw. Yet to get over the euphoria of his win, Nwaozor says, “I did not expect to win that much in the promo. Since I won, I have been encouraging my friends to also participate in subsequent GAIM promos.”
Nwaozor admits that the sum has greatly impacted his baking materials business and puts him in a position to sustain and expand the business into the long term.
The businessman was not the only winner in the savings promo’s fourth season, as he joined 70 other participants to share total cash winnings of N120 million and 108 consolation prizes, including television sets, fridges, and generators. Now in its fifth season, the GAIM Campaign offers even better financial opportunities for customers of Fidelity Bank. The latest edition, which is designed to run till July 2022, promises participants a total of N125 million in cash prizes, all of which will be distributed to lucky customers of the bank through monthly and grand draws as well as weekly consolations giveaways. The GAIM 5 is open to existing and new customers of Fidelity Bank who deposit a minimum of N2,000 in any of their Fidelity Bank savings accounts as well as debit card to qualify in the promo. The more N2,000 you save, the more chances of winning in the promo. Fidelity Bank’s Executive Director, Lagos & South-West, Dr. Ken Opara speaking at the launch of GAIM 5 a recently expressed his delight at how the new savings promo will change many more lives.
“We are elated at yet another opportunity to enrich and empower Nigerians with up to N125 million Naira cash prizes especially at a time like this. We are also thrilled at the savings culture this initiative will drive. Over the years, we have seen that many customers and hitherto non-customers have increased their savings by simply keying into the GAIM promo and we believe that this season will not be an exception,” he said. GAIM Season 5 employs a ‘ticket entry approach’ where every N2,000 in a customer’s account would be considered one ticket entry to win in the promo. Each ticket entry gives customers the opportunity to win N10,000 in the weekly consolation giveaway to 50 lucky winners; a minimum of two ticket entries will qualify customers to win N1m in the monthly draws to 10 lucky winners, while a minimum of 10 ticket entries will qualify customers to either win N2 million, N5 million or N10 million in the grand draw. The bank’s Divisional Head, Product Development, Osita Ede also urged Nigerians to take advantage of the promo. According to Ede, “In this season of the promo where every N2,000 in a customer’s account would be considered a ticket entry to win in the promo, so the more N2,000 deposits, the more ticket entries and chances to win in the promo.” Since its launch, the GAIM savings promo has been instrumental in changing the financial fortunes of over 200 Nigerians who have become millionaires simply by maintaining a healthy saving habit. Over 500 other customers of Fidelity Bank have been rewarded with numerous prizes. It is worth noting that the fifth season of the Get Alert in Millions Campaign, which is currently underway, is the 10th in the series of savings promos organized by Fidelity Bank Plc in the last 15 years.
Aside from the savings promotional campaign, the bank has also doled out over N4.1bn to 10,280 customers in the savings loyalty scheme that offers N500,000 “extra income and N150,000 “School Fees Support” each to both Fidelity Personal Saving Scheme and Fidelity Sweet Account holders respectively. Going by the life-changing opportunities in the Get Alert in Millions Campaign Season 5, it is apparent more people are set to enjoy a turnaround in their financial fortune when the curtains are drawn on the savings promo in the next seven months. The fast-rising bank’s leadership have expressed delight in achieving the aim of the savings promo, seeing many Nigerians improve on their savings habit. But it is even more heartening to see the lives that have been transformed for the better. Overall, due to Fidelity Bank’s strategic life-changing initiatives, the vision to build investible funds for individuals and companies and improve Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in accordance with CBN’s target remains a possibility.
Initiatives like the Get Alert in Millions Campaign are important and necessary to provide Nigerians with opportunities to improve their financial standing. And Fidelity Bank is clearly leading the way. Founded on January 22, 1995, THISDAY is published by THISDAY NEWSPAPERS LTD., 35 Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria with offices in 36 states of Nigeria , the Federal Capital Territory and around the world. It is Nigeria’s most authoritative news media available on all platforms for the political, business, professional and diplomatic elite and broader middle classes while serving as the meeting point of new ideas, culture and technology for the aspirationals and millennials. The newspaper is a public trust dedicated to the pursuit of truth and reason covering a range of issues from breaking news to politics, business, the markets, the arts, sports and community to the crossroads of people and society. You can email us at: hello@thisdaylive.com or visit our contact us page.  