Own a piece of your favorite cities through diversified real estate investments in the country's top markets Looking for additional offers? Sign up to get offers directly to your inbox! *Terms and conditions apply. Visit Nada's website for more details.  TUCSON, AZ / ACCESSWIRE / July 27, 2023 / GainClients, Inc. GCLT ("GainClients" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that it had its most productive week of the year, adding 8 new clients in just 96 hours. "Wow! That was a heck of a weekend. Between Friday and Wednesday, we added 8 more clients bringing our total to 80!" said Ed Laine, the Company's CEO. As the market responds to the Fed's latest rate increase, the small Company out of Tucson AZ just keeps adding new customers. With the latest group bringing the Company's total to 80 sites, the company is well positioned to continue its streak of record-breaking months. GainClients is at the forefront in facilitating both Earnest Money Deposits (contactless and remote) and has the solution for solving the Disbursements or "Dormant Funds" as the industry calls them. This solution allows market participants (Escrow Companies) to distribute proceeds from a Real Estate Transaction, electronically. "We are also in the process of connecting to two additional banks, which will open the doors to add even more customers. We are in the final stages of testing with one, and the other is not far behind.", said Laine. GainClients delivers a solution to Title and Escrow Companies to make the collection of earnest money deposits seamless and easy for their client base. The GainClients Remote Deposit Capture Solution ("RDC") is now fully operational with 14 different banks, including Fifth Third Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, First Interstate Bank, American Bank, American National Bank, Plains Capital Bank, NewFirst Bank, Allegiance Bank, Simmons Bank, Huntington Bank, Umpqua Bank, First Financial Bank, and Independent Bank. They have 70 Client Sites up and running. Since going public in 2001, GainClients has been a preferred provider of Tech Solutions to the Real Estate Industry. With the Pandemic and the importance of Social Distancing, the Company's "Contactless Earnest Money Capture Tool" was the perfect fit for the time. Since all real estate transactions are initiated by an Agreement and an immediate deposit, made by the buyer of the property, to demonstrate "good faith." This deposit, in most states, is called an "earnest money deposit." GainClients' RDC Tool allows this deposit to occur digitally, saving Title and Escrow Companies thousands of dollars in courier fees and their employees' time. For the real estate agent, the RDC service will eliminate the time spent picking up checks from their buyer clients. For title companies, it will reduce the millions spent on manual courier services and overnight shipping costs. In addition, the system will expedite the escrow opening process, as well as solving their disbursement and/or refunds avoiding becoming Dormant Funds. It's also a beneficial service from title companies to their REALTOR® partners that will strengthen existing relationships and forge new ones. About GainClients, Inc. GainClients products, the Remote Deposit Capture Tool or RDC, the GCard, and the Daily Opportunity Service, consist of custom formatted data and marketing services created for the real estate industry including real estate agents and brokers, lender brokerages, title/escrow and insurance companies and individual real estate, mortgage, and title and escrow professionals. Learn more at: http://www.thegainclientsway.com/. For More Information: GainClientsEd Laine, at info@gainclients.com or at +1.206.229.5515;Corporate Office: 6245 E Broadway Blvd., Suite 400, Tucson, AZ 85711 Cautionary Statements This corporate update contains "forward-looking information" that is not clearly historical in nature may constitute forward-looking information. Generally, such forward-looking information can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". SOURCE: GainClients, Inc. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.