
By Lizzy Spangler
|

9:45 AM Jun 16, 2023 CDT

 The Tomball Business & Technology Park has generated more than $85 million in capital investment and created over 500 jobs since 2015. (Lizzy Spangler/Community Impact) The Tomball Economic Development Corp. sold its last lot in the Tomball Business & Technology Park May 18, TEDC Executive Director Kelly Violette said.“[It felt] a little bittersweet,” Violette said. “It’s kind of a feeling of an end of an era. But [it’s] also really exciting and just gratifying to see a project through conception to completion. Being able to be a part of something like that, it’s just been a really amazing project for us.”In a nutshellThe final lot will be occupied by two companies, Walsh & Albert and Metal Zinc. The building housed on the lot will be around 200,000 square feet.Metal Zinc manufactures HVAC components, and Walsh & Albert manufactures ductwork for HVAC systems, Violette said. The two companies are estimated to create around 200 jobs.Zooming outWork on the Tomball Business & Technology Park began in mid-2011 when the TEDC began to look for land to house the project, eventually closing on the 100-acre property later that year, Violette said.Violette said the first lot was sold in 2015, and since then, the development has generated more than $85 million in capital investment and created over 500 jobs since 2015.“It’s really such a neat mix [of businesses],” Violette said. “It’s very sustainable. It’s not all energy-related, it’s not all construction-related. It’s very much a mix, which I think is something that makes it a really unique business park, especially for its size.”What else? Going forwardWith the final lot sold, the TEDC’s role will transition to more of that of a board member on the property owner’s association rather than a developer, Violette said.Violette also said the TEDC will begin working on other projects, such as the First Baptist Church site and the South Live Oak Business Park, both of which were identified as objectives in the TEDC’s 2023-24 strategic plan. Editor Lizzy serves as editor for the Conroe/Montgomery and Tomball/Magnolia editions of Community Impact. Joining CI in August 2022, she covered government for Conroe, Jersey Village, Magnolia, Montgomery and Tomball prior to becoming editor. When not working, Lizzy enjoys hanging out with her dog, Twix, or watching reality TV. 
(866) 989-6808
 
TERMS OF SERVICE
|
PRIVACY POLICY
|
 
© 2005-2024 Community Impact Newspaper Co. All rights reserved.
