By Jessica Hamilton   Published:  10:20 EDT, 16 June 2023   |  Updated:  02:57 EDT, 21 June 2023      View  comments  Transport for London is expecting a busy weekend and various events held in the capital may affect your journey.  While train strikes won't disrupt your weekend, you might find it harder to get home than usual.  His Majesty's first official birthday as Sovereign, marked by the Trooping the Colour ceremony will draw large crowds, and the Arctic Monkeys gig in Wembley will also disrupt traffic, which may result in slower services.  But which services are affected this weekend? Is your train cancelled? Are London Underground services disrupted? Read on below to see if your usual train or tube service is disrupted. TfL have not announced any official train strikes but the weekend is expected to be busier than usual in London, here is a list of all services affected Friday 16 to Saturday 17 June: No services between Leytonstone and Loughton/ Hainault from 2:00am until 4:30. A rail replacement bus will run to all stations between Leytonstone and Loughton.  Saturday 17 and Sunday 18 June: No service between Woodford and Epping/ Hainault including the Night Tube between Leytonstone and Loughton on Saturday night.  Saturday 17 and Sunday 18 June:  No service between Surrey Quays and Clapham Junction- a rail replacement bus service will run instead.  Monday 19 to Thursday 22 June: No service between Sydenham and West Croydon after 10:15pm, customers are advised to use a local bus or Southern rail replacement bus services.  Saturday 17 and Sunday 18 June: No service between Poplar and Beckton, a rail replacement bus service will run.  Bus journeys will also be affected this weekend and may be delayed, diverted or stop short of their usual destination.   A number of concerts and events will take place in London this weekend and large crowds are expected to slow services Friday 16 to Sunday 18 June: Emirates Stadium will be hosting Arctic Monkeys in concert from 5:00 to 11:00pm, increased traffic and large crowds are expected.  Saturday 17 June: Central London area: The annual ceremony Trooping the Colour will take place in central London and large crowds are expected which may slow services from 6:00am to 3:00pm.  Road closures will be in place from 6:00am in a number of areas including Pall Mall East, Strand, Cockspur Street and Northumberland Ave. Parliament Square: Large crowds are expected from 12:20 to 4:30pm due to a demonstration.   Wembley Stadium: Wembley will be hosting Harry Styles in concert from 3:30 to 23:00pm, which will lead to increased traffic and crowds.  Twickenham Stadium: Twickenham Stadium will be hosting Depeche Mode in concert from 5:00 to 11:00pm. Increased traffic and large crowds are expected. Sunday 18 June: Waterloo Bridge: Temporary traffic holds will be in place due to filming between 3:30 to 6:00am. Clapham Common South Side: The London to Brighton Bike Ride will start from Clapham Common South Side between 06:00 and 09:30am. Increased traffic and large crowds are expected. Central London: Filming will be taking place from 5:30pm to 05:00am the following morning in John Adam Street/Albert Embankment/Westminster Bridge/Parliament Square/Piccadilly Circus. Transport for London advises London passengers to check details before they travel, as this information could change. The TfL go app allows customers to plan their journey.   
	    Share what you think
           No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts,
      or debate this issue live on our message boards.
      
 We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group