
Cyberwarfare / Nation-State Attacks
                                                    ,
                                                            Fraud Management & Cybercrime
                                                    ,
                                                            Next-Generation Technologies & Secure Development
 Last year was another bonanza in zero-days for Chinese state hackers, say security researchers in a report predicting a permanent uptick in nation-state exploitation of yet-unpatched vulnerabilities. See Also: Malware Analysis Spotlight: Why Your EDR Let Pikabot Jump Through Data taken from original research by cybersecurity firm Mandiant and from open-source reporting suggests zero-day exploitation is generally trending upward despite fluctuation from year to year in the exact numbers of detected zero-days.  A report from the Google-owned threat intelligence company says 55 zero-days exploits were detected during 2022. That's less than the 81 known zero-days spotted the year before but also a 200% increase compared to 2020. "Attackers seek stealth and ease of exploitation, both of which zero-days can provide," Mandiant writes. Given the tactical edge they give to attackers, "we expect that threat actors will continue to pursue the discovery and exploitation of zero-days."  Of the zero-days whose exploitation researchers could attribute with at least moderate confidence, Chinese state-sponsored groups were responsible for slightly more than half. Chinese campaigns were notable for the involvement of "multiple groups, expansive targeting, and focus on enterprise networking and security devices." Mandiant says Chinese nation-state hackers used fewer zero-day exploits in 2022 than the year before, but Beijing's growing capacity for identifying and exploiting unpatched vulnerabilities has caught the attention of multiple Western security researchers. CrowdStrike recently said Beijing is "up-leveling" its capabilities while Microsoft has warned about possible stockpiling of zero-days by Beijing. Both firms trace China's wealth of zero-days to a vulnerability disclosure requirement that took effect Sept. 1, 2021, as part of a larger Data Security Law tightening regulations around the processing of Chinese data.  Exploitation by more than one Chinese state hacking group of a particular zero-day, such as the belatedly patched Follina bug in Microsoft Office, suggests that Chinese state-hacking groups obtain tools from a centralized quartermaster, Mandiant says.  China was not the only government to latch onto Follina, Mandiant says. Russian state hackers known as APT28 also exploited it, although that may have been opportunistic hackers taking advantage of the weekslong lag between disclosure and patch release.  Moscow only made use of two zero-day exploits during 2022, Mandiant says - a situation it attributes to heightened vigilance over Russian operators in the wake of the Kremlin's February 2022 invasion of Ukraine. Russian hackers may be wary of using valuable zero-days while defenders are extra watchful of their actions.  A threat cluster Mandiant tracks as UNC2633 also got in on the Follina action, using it in at least two instances to distribute Qakbot malware. Financially motivated actors such as ransomware hackers collectively exploited four zero-day vulnerabilities in 2022. Products from Microsoft, Google and Apple accounted for the majority of zero-days in 2022, and the most exploited product types were operating systems, followed by web browsers, security, IT, and network management products and mobile operating systems. Principal Correspondent, Global News Desk, ISMG Bagwe previously worked at CISO magazine, reporting the latest cybersecurity news and trends and interviewing cybersecurity subject matter experts. 
   Covering topics in risk management, compliance, fraud, and information security. By submitting this form you agree to our Privacy & GDPR Statement whitepaper whitepaper Cyberwarfare / Nation-State Attacks Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Cloud Security Healthcare Cybercrime Continue » 
 90 minutes · Premium OnDemand 
                         Overview From heightened risks to increased regulations, senior leaders at all levels are pressured to
                                    improve their organizations' risk management capabilities. But no one is showing them how -
                                    until now. Learn the fundamentals of developing a risk management program from the man who wrote the book
                                    on the topic: Ron Ross, computer scientist for the National Institute of Standards and
                                    Technology. In an exclusive presentation, Ross, lead author of NIST Special Publication 800-37
                                    - the bible of risk assessment and management - will share his unique insights on how to: Sr. Computer Scientist & Information Security Researcher,
                                            National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Was added to your briefcase It's Raining Zero-Days in Cyberspace It's Raining Zero-Days in Cyberspace 
                                        Just to prove you are a human, please solve the equation:

 Sign in now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Complete your profile and stay up to date Contact Support  Create an ISMG account now  Create an ISMG account now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Sign in now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Sign in now  Our website uses cookies. Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing govinfosecurity.com, you agree to our use of cookies.