While we know Hollywood's it-girl Sydney Sweeney is booked and busy all 2023 (thanks to her rom-com, psychological thriller, and ofc, Marvel's Madame Web), the Euphoria star has another movie on her roster alongside singer and About-Face Beauty mogul, Halsey. The film, which was previously known as National Anthem, is Halsey's official acting debut and follows several people as they cross the country on the hunt for a precious artifact. It also happens to be the flick that Sydney dyed her blonde hair for. Americana premiered at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas in March 2023. Here's everything we know about the upcoming release, from its plot to its cast. According to the film's synopsis on IMdB, Americana is an action heist film where "the lives of local outsiders and outcasts violently intertwine" during an intense hunt for the Lakota Ghost Shirt —a precious artifact that just hit the black market) in South Dakota. Deadline reports that "some [characters] are hunting for fortune, others for personal freedom, while others simply want to return [the Lakota Ghost Shirt] properly to its home." Sydney Sweeney has taken on the role of Penny Jo, a waitress who has big dreams of performing in Nashville Tennessee. Paul Walter Hauser plays her confidante and "lonesome cowboy" named Lefty, while Halsey plays rough-around-the-edges Mandy Starr, the "long-suffering" girlfriend of the film's lead criminal. Per Deadline, other cast members include Euphoria's Eric Dane, Zahn McClarnon, Gavin Maddox Bergman, Simon Rex, Derek Hinkey, Toby Huss, and Harriet Sansom Harris. There's no trailer for the film just yet, but a 90-second sneak peek dropped on March 15 ahead of its premiere at SXSW. In the clip, Sydney's character Penny Jo attempts to intimidate Halsey's grungy Mandy Starr into giving her the artifact. Mandy isn't phased one bit as Penny Jo nervously stutters as she holds a gun to her back at a remote gas station, and a car chase ensues between the girls and Penny Jo's partner in crime, who happens to be a cowboy played by Paul Walter Hauser. "It's one of my favorite scenes because none of these characters are smooth, experienced criminals in the slightest," Americana director Tony Tost told Deadline. "And I love how Sydney, Paul, and Halsey all play their desperate intentions and discomfort to quietly comedic effect." Americana is making its world premiere on March 17 at the Paramount Theatre in Austin, Texas, as part of SXSW. An official release date for the movie hasn't been announced by the studio yet, but we'll update this piece as soon as we have more details. You Might Also Like 18 Best Leggings Brands That Will Make Your Butt Look Like an 11/10 37 Selena Gomez Hairstyles to Copy If You're Trying to Level-Up Your Hair Game 11 Waterproof Makeup Products You Have to Try New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.