NASA's Artemis program is stirring up renewed interest in lunar exploration, and retro-style coming-of-age flicks from Hollywood are proving to be very popular with audiences and viewers. So Disney Plus has decided to merge those two elements for its new kid-friendly sci-fi film, "Crater." Directed by Kyle Patrick Alvarez ("C.O.G."), "Crater" unfolds its gripping tale of five adventurous kids in the year 2257 living at a protected mining colony on the surface of the moon who steal a research rover and embark on a wild overland romp to explore a notorious crater. It stars Russell-Bailey, Scott Mescudi, McKenna Grace, Billy Barratt, Orson Hong, and Thomas Boyce. Want to watch 'Crater' on Disney Plus? You can get a 7-day free trial here. Sign up for Disney Plus for $6.99/month "Crater" touched down on Disney+ on May 12, 2023 with an impressive creative resume that includes executive producers Shawn Levy ("Night at the Museum," "Real Steel"), Dan Cohen and Dan Levine, the creative minds that brought us Netflix's "Stranger Things" and "Arrival." With dire dystopian dramas and depressing superhero sagas still flooding the marketplace, it's refreshing to find a movie that seeks to entertain and gently instruct without some heavy, ham-handed message to preach to fans who simply want to enjoy a rewarding outer space diversion. "Crater's" familiar formula harkens back to classics like "Stand By Me," "Flight of the Navigator," "E.T the Extra-terrestrial," "Explorers" or "The Goonies." There's lots to like here as we meet this energetic band of lunar delinquents. We do have to endure some brief eye-rolling lessons about classism and capitalism that are unavoidable these days, but that doesn't detract from a rollicking road trip on the moon. Read more: The best sci-fi movies and TV shows to stream on Disney Plus in May Here's the official synopsis: "'Crater' is the story of Caleb Channing (Russell-Bailey), who was raised on a lunar mining colony and is about to be permanently relocated to an idyllic faraway planet following the death of his father (Mescudi). But before leaving, to fulfill his dad's last wish, he and his three best friends, Dylan (Barratt), Borney (Hong) and Marcus (Boyce), and a new arrival from Earth, Addison (Grace), hijack a rover for a final adventure on a journey to explore a mysterious crater." John Griffin’s ("From") organic original screenplay wastes no time hitting the narrative afterburners as the mining facility goes into lockdown mode due to an encroaching meteor storm. After Caleb's dad dies in a mining accident, the orphaned teen's death benefits allow him to relocate to the idyllic exoplanet Omega. However, the journey takes 75 years to complete, and Caleb's cryo-chamber would spare him the ravages of time, but his friends would age naturally back home at the colony. Related: Mining the moon to help save life on Earth (op-ed) Using the lockdown orders and a three-day window before his Omega trip, Caleb gathers his buddies and steals a huge rover to go off-roading out to the location of a special crater Caleb's father mentioned. Addison, a newbie Earth girl, has the codes the kids need for the caper, and she barters her way into their crew to rumble across the lunar regolith to go see a colossal hole. The cast has palpable chemistry, and these young actors do an admirable job with the material, delivering authentic and sincere dialogue in every scene and sequence. The throwback appeal, core mystery, and rousing spirit of "Crater" make this type of science fiction feature something Disney should invest much more time and effort in. Sure, the "Star Wars" franchise and Marvel Cinematic Universe are their flagship properties, but it's encouraging to see fresh fare like "Crater" make its mark, as family entertainment often gets neglected in favor of the superstars. Related stories: — The best space movies of all time — The 5 most realistic space movies — Moon facts: Fun information about the Earth's moon Nora T. Ekberg's glossy production design for "Crater" is exceptional, and, paired with fantastic VFX work by production visual effects supervisor Carey Villegas and contributions from Cinesite, FuseFX, MPC, and MR. X, gives Disney+’s spacey offering an added level of prestige. The final discovery of what's inside the titular crater provides a wondrous revelation that neatly wraps up the whole endeavor without a hint of disappointment. It's all surprisingly satisfying with "Crater's" subtle themes of death and loss, unrealized dreams, unfair labor practices and the warm companionship of friends on a memorable road trip. "Crater" is thankfully devoid of modern cynicism, and a relaxed viewing is the ideal way to spend a fun weekend afternoon. "Crater" is currently streaming exclusively on Disney Plus. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.