Another spring day in Colorado, another bear trapped in a car — especially if there’s food inside. It’s simple math, officials with Colorado Parks and Wildlife said in a June 5 post on Twitter. “Dog food + unlocked truck = bear trapped in your truck,” officials said in the post. Dog food + unlocked truck = bear trapped in your truckup to listen our wildlife officer free the bear and scare it from the area. Good lesson to bring in food from your vehicles! Bears can smell it and learn how to open doors. pic.twitter.com/hKkgfwrXoH — CPW NE Region (@CPW_NE) June 5, 2023 Officials shared a video of a wildlife officer freeing a bear that found its way inside a pickup truck in Evergreen to get a taste of dog food that had been left inside, but it couldn’t find its way back out. A black trash can is turned over on its side right next to the truck. “Got a bear that got into a trash can last night and then opened an unlocked vehicle and went inside to get dog food inside,” the officer says in the video. “So…we’re gonna let him out.” The officer puts the phone’s camera up against the window to show the damage to the interior before moving to the front seat. The bear’s long snout appears behind the glass. “There’s our bear,” the officer says before he yanks on the door handles. “Who, uh, has the doors locked.” After someone unlocks the truck, the officer pulls the door open to free the bear, which shuffles out with a scuffle. “Get out of here!” the wildlife officer shouts toward the bear to scare it off. “Git! Git!” The bear runs off but pauses to look toward the house, almost curiously. So the officer yells again until it makes it to the woods’ edge. “Go on, bear!” he says. Officials encouraged viewers to watch the video with the sound turned up to hear how the officer scares the bear from the area. “Good lesson to bring in food from your vehicles!” officials said. “Bears can smell it and learn how to open doors.” Bears are clever, and once they’ve learned that food is sometimes left in cars, they’re likely to keep coming back to try, McClatchy News previously reported. “That bear is definitely ready for a food coma nap,” someone commented. “See ya tomorrow.” Evergreen is about 20 miles southwest of Denver. To prevent attracting bears to your car or home, Colorado Parks and Wildlife officials recommend: Keep garbage secured and only put it out the morning it gets picked up. Clean garbage cans regularly (with ammonia if you can) to cut down on odors that attract bears. Keep garage doors closed, and don’t leave pet food or stock feed outside. Use bear-resistant trash cans or dumpsters. Avoid bird feeders between April 15 to Nov. 15. You can naturally attract birds with flowers and water baths instead. Don’t let bears get comfortable around your home. You should haze them if you spot one, by yelling, making noise and throwing things at it to scare it off. Secure compost piles, as bears are attracted to the smell of rotting food. Clean grills after every use, and clean up well after cookouts. Don’t allow fruit to rot on the ground around fruit trees. Lock doors when you’re away from home and overnight. Keep bottom-floor windows closed when you’re not at home. To bear-proof your car: Don’t keep food in your car, and roll up windows and lock car doors. Lock car doors when car-camping and secure food and coolers inside. Clean up your campsite, whether you’re camping at a campground or in the backcountry. If you’re camping in the backcountry, hang food 100 feet away (or more) from the campsite. Don’t bring food into your tent. Cook far from your campsite and wash dishes thoroughly. Bear has mischievous look on face as it climbs inside truck in Colorado, video shows Huge bear found trapped inside Lake Tahoe car. Watch deputies free it from a distance Young bear was starving when wildlife officials found her. See her amazing turnaround New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.