Image: airasia airasia food has announced a new dine-in feature on the company’s superapp. Found in the food tab, users can now book reservations at select restaurants on the platform with discounts of up to 50% off their bill and 100 airasia points for every reservation. Currently, the company says that there are over 600 restaurants on airasia food across Southeast Asia, including Kuala Lumpur, Jakarta, Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Pattaya, and Phuket. The new dine-in service is powered by restaurant reservation platform eatigo, and it works in a similar way as it gives you different discounts depending on which timeslot you book for.  The discounts range anywhere from 10% to 50%, with the max discount rate being reserved for off-peak hours. That being said, the discounts are only applicable for ala carte food items, with drinks and sets being excluded. Furthermore, the airasia food discounts are not stackable with other promotions that a restaurant might have. This announcement comes just weeks after airasia announced a partnership with Foodpanda. The collaboration sees airasia promoting Foodpanda for food delivery while the latter promotes airasia ride, its e-hailing service, through banners that redirect to the superapp.  More than that, the partnership resulted in airasia completely dissolving its food delivery business in favour of this new dine-in setup for its food segment. With the shuttering of this service, Capital A CEO Tony Fernandes said that the airasia food delivery riders would be transitioned to Teleport riders and e-hailing, even going so far as to provide cars for those who don’t have one. The partnership also means that airasia users can earn points when they spend on Foodpanda, with a rate of a single point for every RM2 spent. In related news, while food delivery, including intercity delivery, is no longer available on the superapp, the company is retaining its queuing service, although that’s still only limited to Bangkok. (Source: airasia [1][2]) Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter or Telegram for more updates and breaking news.  ©2024 VIJANDREN RAMADASS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. ©2024 LOWYAT, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. ©2024 LOWYAT, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.