published author share on Delivery platform foodpanda has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Visa to bring innovative payment solutions and cost-saving perks to its consumers and merchants across Asia. With this MOU, foodpanda intends to leverage on Visa’s proficiency in its efforts to improve operational procedures such as simplifying payment methods for more seamless payments as well as upgrading online-to-offline payment platforms. “Our focus has always been on providing value for customers in every way possible. We want to make ordering food and groceries, or even dining out at restaurants, a seamless and convenient experience. Whether they’re spending online or offline, it should be with absolute ease and bring them maximum benefits,” said Luc Andreani, chief operations officer of foodpanda. “This is the start of an exciting partnership that will continue to evolve and expand regionally in the near future,” Andreani added. Don't miss: foodpanda and TADA ink deal to introduce new user benefits for customers in Asia Given the wide scope of the collaboration, both parties are currently working on various avenues of collaboration that will be a game changer for foodpanda’s customers and merchants across the region. These include leveraging each other’s omni-channel adtech solutions, cross-marketing opportunities, loyalty and rewards, as well as tapping on Visa’s consumer analytics and insights to enhance foodpanda’s user journey.  “The partnership will allow us to support foodpanda with Visa’s global network and range of products, enabling foodpanda to broaden its range of innovative services to its customers and merchants,” said Neil Mumm, head of merchant sales and acquiring of Visa, Asia Pacific. “Through such collaborations, we are continuing to accelerate payment digitalisation across the region, growing the number of ways in which people can transact seamlessly and intuitively, shaping the future of payments,” Mumm added. The news comes shortly after foodpanda announced its partnership with TADA to introduce new user benefits for customers in Asia, starting with Singapore and Cambodia. As part of the partnership, both foodpanda and TADA users can enjoy savings, discounted fares and loyalty programme subscriptions across both quick-commerce and ride-platforms. Up to 30,000 TADA users in Singapore can opt in to receive a complimentary pandapro subscription which gives them easy access and cost savings to on-demand deliveries. foodpanda has more than one million pandapro subscribers across the region who have exclusive access to free deliveries, special pick-up offers, dine-in deals, and other discounts. Related articles: foodpanda SG gets creative with OOH ads to highlight fresh produce deliveryfoodpanda shows love to delivery partners with ‘double tips, double love’ campaignfoodpanda names new chief marketing officer for APAC share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.