Dixie D’Amelio is launching her own Puma footwear. Today, the company announced that a limited-edition footwear collection, designed in partnership with the famed TikTok creator and singer, will drop on March 8. D’Amelio has a been a Puma brand ambassador since 2021. More from Footwear News Dixie D'Amelio Glitters in GCDS' Spongebob Dress & $100 Silver Heels at Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards 2023 Zaya Wade Celebrates Puma's Forever Classic Campaign as New Brand Ambassador Brooks, Asics, Nike & More Major Running Brands Are Tuning Into #RunTok on TikTok -- Here's Why Within the collection are reimagined versions of popular Puma styles, including the Puma x Dixie RS-X, the Defy and Mayze sneakers. D’Amelio was inspired by her time working the studio and getting ready for an onstage performance. There’s also D’Amelio’s signature cloud graphic seen throughout the line as well as a “verified” easter egg at the tongue of the shoes. Courtesy of Puma “I had so much fun selecting styles that aligned with what I personally gravitate towards in my own day to day fashion,” she said in a statement. The upcoming Puma x Dixie collection will be available starting March 8 at 12 p.m. ET online at Puma.com as well as at the Puma flagship store in New York. Foot Locker and Champs Sports will also carry the collab. Courtesy of Puma D’Amelio is no stranger to the design world. Along with her sister, Charli D’Amelio, the two have co-founded their Social Tourist fashion line in partnership with Hollister. Plus, last year, the social media juggernauts launched the D’Amelio Family Fund by 444 Capital works to invest in startups and to launch their own fashion and lifestyle businesses. This summer, the D’Amelio are expected to launch their own footwear brand as well. Best of Footwear News Bet You Don't Know the History Behind These Iconic Fashion Brand Logos Best Window and Street Signs For Small Businesses As You Begin To Reopen Net-a-Porter's First Sneaker Campaign Is Proof That Fashion Sneakers Are Hot Sign up for FN's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.