
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Oil prices will whipsaw as we move to net zero, which could be disastrous for low-income producer countries                                         

                                                                                        Bali gives a snapshot of what ‘overtourism’ looks like in the developing world                                         

                                                                                        Circle K Operator Alimentation Couche-Tard Bids to Acquire 7-Eleven's Japanese Owner                                         

                                                                                        China’s Retail Sales Grew in July, But Industrial Production and Investment Lag Behind                                         

                                                                                        Bangladesh's Future Hinges on Muhammad Yunus as Interim Government Faces Economic Challenges                                         

                                                                                        Philly schools are in disrepair − the municipal bond market is 1 big reason                                         

                                                                                        Panasonic to End Fluorescent Lamp Production by 2027, Marking an Era’s Close                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's Collector's Meal Cups Selling for Over $100 Amid Nostalgia Craze                                         

                                                                                        Ethiopia’s $1 Billion Debt Restructure Faces Investor Pushback Amid Economic Uncertainty                                         
                                                                                        Ethiopia’s bold economic reforms target stability and growth, but they come with risks                                         

                                                                                        Rising Household Debt in South Korea Signals Central Bank's Reluctance for Rate Cuts                                         

                                                                                        Apple’s $1,000 Tabletop Robot With Arm, Display Spotted in Supply Chain; Set to Rival Amazon and Google                                         

                                                                                        McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall                                         

                                                                                        Elon Musk is moving X and SpaceX to Texas                                         
                                                                                        Biden administration’s negotiated price cuts for 10 common prescription drugs likely to save Medicare billions, beginning in 2026                                         

                                                                                        Seven & i Holdings to Launch Renewable Energy Subsidiary, Powering 7-Eleven Stores in Japan                                         

                                                                                        AT&T, Verizon Push FCC to Block SpaceX's Cellular Starlink Over Interference Concerns                                                 Photo by: Ford Motor Media Center SK on, Ford Motor breaks ground in Kentucky for their EV battery joint venture In a major move to enhance U.S. auto production, the U.S. Department of Energy has granted SK on Co. and Ford's BlueOval City a hefty $9.2 billion policy support fund, bolstering the Tennessee-based automotive assembly mega campus and promoting domestic manufacturing of clean energy technologies. SK on and Ford Motor are running BlueOval City together, and it was revealed that the new funding would give them a stronger base for production capacity in the United States. They have snatched up KRW12 trillion or about $9.2 billion in policy support funding from the energy department of the U.S. government. According to The Korea Economic Daily, SK on confirmed that BlueOval SK received conditional approval to take $9.2 billion in policy funding under the U.S. DOE's Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Loan program. The JV group's borrowing rate will be based on the usual amount applied by the U.S. Treasury, which could be as low as its 10-year rate. An official of SK energy said that the borrowing was made possible by the US Department of Energy's affirmative assessment of BlueOval SK's production capacity, which is based on SK on's advanced technology. Meanwhile, BlueOval SK is set to finalize the primary contract for the $9.2 billion loan by the end of this year at the earliest time. "The U.S. Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office today announced a conditional commitment for a loan of up to $9.2 billion to BlueOval SK LLC for the construction of three manufacturing plants to produce batteries for Ford Motor Company's future Ford and Lincoln electric vehicles (EVs)," the U.S. Department of Energy said in a statement. The DOE added, "This effort supports President Biden's Investing in America agenda to onshore and re-shore domestic manufacturing of technologies that are critical to reaching the clean energy and transportation future."   Photo by: Ford Motor Media Center Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Posts Crude Alanis Morissette Parody Attacking Kamala Harris: 'Down on Her Knees' for 2024 Nomination  
                                                                                                Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024  
                                                                                                Cybertruck Controversy Erupts: Musk Denies Involvement as Global Reaction to Chechen Leader Intensifies  
                                                                                                15 Spicy Fast-Food Items Guaranteed to Ignite Your Taste Buds  
                                                                                                Multiverse films take characters to increasingly dark places – as Robert Downey Jr’s Doctor Doom casting shows  
                                                                                                McDonald's Collector's Meal Cups Selling for Over $100 Amid Nostalgia Craze  
                                                                                                Elon Musk is moving X and SpaceX to Texas  
                                                                                                Apple’s $1,000 Tabletop Robot With Arm, Display Spotted in Supply Chain; Set to Rival Amazon and Google  
                                                                                                What is ‘model collapse’? An expert explains the rumours about an impending AI doom  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked for Struggling to Pronounce 'Regulatory' During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Question His Cognitive Health 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 