Launched today, MetricsHoldings.com is an all-new website from the people that people across the globe count on for best-in-class solutions to their worst manufacturing, engineering, and supply chain issues. In addition to showcasing Metrics Holdings companies, the new website reflects the organization's ongoing commitment to business innovation and customer-centric solutions. LEWIS CENTER, Ohio (PRWEB) April 06, 2023   Launched today, MetricsHoldings.com is an all-new website from the people that people across the globe count on for best-in-class solutions to their worst manufacturing, engineering, and supply chain issues. In addition to showcasing Metrics Holdings companies, the new website reflects the organization's ongoing commitment to business innovation and customer-centric solutions. "We couldn't be more excited about the launch of MetricsHoldings.com," says MES Founder and CEO Hiten Shah. "This new website was born out of our ongoing commitment to deliver value-added services to manufacturers within the automotive, industrial, medical, and agriculture sectors. MetricsHoldings.com is yet another opportunity for us to help OEM and Tier 1 suppliers, investors, and potential employees perform at their highest level." Customer-Centric Business Because the organizations that comprise Metrics Holding make it possible to optimize outcomes for a wide variety of industries and worldwide communities, the new website takes a deep dive into our offerings, including:
  Impact-Driven Approach Find out what (and who) makes Metrics Holdings an extraordinary place to partner with:   About Metrics Holdings Metrics Holdings is a pioneering leader in delivering best-in-class global solutions for manufacturing, supply chain, sourcing, purchasing, and inventory. Our reach extends to local and worldwide charitable organizations, as well investments and growth portfolios. We're unwavering in our pursuit to find innovative and enduring ways to provide sustainable solutions, maximize lifetime value, and create a positive impact around the world.  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/please_join_us_in_welcoming_metricsholdings_com_metrics_holdings_and_its_global_manufacturing_and_supply_chain_companies/prweb19267756.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.