BlackBerry looks to move forward with AI cybersecurity push 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 BlackBerry has unveiled an enterprise-grade security assitant platform powered by generative AI tools. Aimed at increasing the efficiency and performance of CISO teams, the unnamed generative AI powered assistant will act as an additional SOC analyst for your team - so if you’re a security operations center (SOC) analyst who needs an assistant, Blackberry may have the solution for you. The latest innovation will be available to CylanceAI customers, and will allow SOC teams to stay ahead of threats by using predictive cybersecurity to stay ahead of the curve. The AI is trained on private large language models (LLM) giving it an enhanced level of precision and data privacy. “BlackBerry pioneered the AI cybersecurity market and our commitment to innovation means we are once again at the forefront of the industry as we unveil our Generative AI powered cybersecurity assistant,” said Nathan Jenniges, SVP & GM Spark, Cybersecurity Business Unit, BlackBerry.  “This new solution will enable our customers to modernize their SOC operations helping them to stay a step ahead of the adversary. It will be invaluable to CISOs in overcoming the challenges they face, including an evolving threat landscape and resource constraints.” The generative AI solution will be able to predict the needs of its users, drastically improving workflow and cutting down the time required for threat research. The initial release of this cybersecurity AI will be restricted to a limited group of CylanceAI customers. “Generative AI has the potential to deliver tremendous economic value, making it an area of focus for BlackBerry. Our patent portfolio already includes Generative AI,” said Charles Eagan, Chief Technology Officer, BlackBerry. Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! “Throughout our innovations we take our commitment to delivering enterprise-grade solutions seriously – innovations that deliver value rather than react to hype.” Benedict has been writing about security issues for close to 5 years, at first covering geopolitics and international relations while at the University of Buckingham. During this time he studied BA Politics with Journalism, for which he received a second-class honours (upper division). Benedict then continued his studies at a postgraduate level and achieved a distinction in MA Security, Intelligence and Diplomacy. Benedict transitioned his security interests towards cybersecurity upon joining TechRadar Pro as a Staff Writer, focusing on state-sponsored threat actors, malware, social engineering, and national security. Benedict is also an expert on B2B security products, including firewalls, antivirus, endpoint security, and password management. Asus ProArt PX13 laptop review The Paris Olympics saw a whole load of domain-related cybercrime Pixel Watch 3 vs Pixel Watch 2: Which Google timepiece is for you? TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 