 In the final game of a four-game series at PNC Park, the Pittsburgh Pirates (68-78) play the Washington Nationals (65-81), Thursday at 12:35 PM ET. The Nationals (+137 underdog moneyline odds) visit the Pirates (-161). The Pirates will give the ball to Mitch Keller (11-9) versus the Nationals and Josiah Gray (7-11). Quinn Priester (4.0 IP, 4 R, 4 H, 4 K) picked up the win in the Pirates’ 7-6 victory over the Nationals yesterday. Bryan Reynolds led the way offensively, going 3-for-4 with a home run and two RBI. Jackson Rutledge (3.2 IP, 7 R, 10 H, 2 K) took the loss for the Nationals. Here is what you need to prepare for Thursday’s Pirates vs. Nationals action, including viewing options. Major League Baseball odds courtesy of Tipico Sportsbook. Odds updated Thursday at 9:20 AM ET. For a full list of sports betting odds, access USA TODAY Sports Betting Scores Odds Hub. Catch the excitement and bet with Tipico! Double Down, Ohio! Deposit $200, Get $250. Bet now! In Colorado and New Jersey, claim your 100% Deposit Match up to $250 now! 21+, see Tipico.com for Terms and Conditions. Place your legal, online sports bets in CO and NJ at Tipico Sportsbook now. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. See operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER. Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy BetMGM Review
Caesars Review
Fanatics Review
bet365 Review
DraftKings Review
FanDuel Review
BetRivers Review
 Sports Scores and Odds Hub 
Sports Betting Legality Map 
Parlay Calculator  





 
				© Copyright USA TODAY Sportsbook Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		