Former TOWIE star Frankie Essex, 34, says she thinks her baby girl Luella "looks lovely" with her new real diamond earrings in but admits she may get backlash for the decision Frankie Essex has revealed she has got her six-month-old daughter Luella's ears pierced.  The former TOWIE star, 34, says she thinks her baby girl "looks lovely" with her new real diamond earrings in. Frankie, who welcomed twins Luella and son Logan back in June with boyfriend Luke, said while she thinks she might get backlash for her daughter getting the piercings at such a young age, she is happy she went ahead with it. The reality star said she headed to Bluewater, with the piercer doing the piercings at the same time to try to minimise the distress for her daughter.  "Luella cried, but then I put a dummy in her mouth and she was laughing. She was absolutely fine, and then she forgot about it," Frankie wrote in her OK! Magazine column.  "She looks so lovely and Luke thinks she looks really different. She has real diamonds in and she’s only six months old! She’s definitely my child. "I don’t know if I’m going to get stick for getting them done because a lot of people have opinions about that, but if she didn’t get them done now, she would probably have to wait until she was a teenager, just getting it done now means it’s done, plus if she doesn’t like them when she’s older, she can take them out. Frankie and Luke were over the moon when they found out they were expecting twins.  Announcing to OK! magazine: ''Double the love. Our baby bears have arrived.''  The reality star told that the news was a 'huge shock' and their is no history of twins in her family. Sharing how they discovered the news, she said: ''The lady scanning me was focusing on one baby and was then like, "Whatelse do we have here then?" and I was so shocked and asked, "Are we having twins?" I burst out crying, tears of happiness. It was just so beautiful. It was lovely.'' Frankie later found out at an early scan that the twins were not identical. She added: "It was such a shock, but it's a blessing and we are so over the moon."  The new mum opted to have a selective C-section at the birth and described how Ed Sheeran was playing in the car on the way to the hospital because the "babies like it".  Luke explained following the safe arrival of their bundles of joy, mum had a slight panic as she lost "a bit of blood" but said he was able to calm her down and make things "fine" again. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox