There’s less pain at the pump for Volusia and Flagler county motorists, among drivers who saw the cost of a gallon of regular gas on Sunday hit the lowest daily average price statewide since late April, a 46% year-over-year decline from record highs in June 2022, according to AAA Auto Club. Statewide, the average cost of regular gas was $3.36 per gallon on Sunday, which had dropped to an average of $3.35 by Monday morning. That’s down from a record high of $4.89 per gallon recorded on June 13, 2022. In Daytona Beach, the average price per gallon on Monday also was $3.35, down from $4.75 a year ago, according to the daily update on AAA’s website. In case you missed it: Daily tracker: Daytona gas prices break record 4th day in a row, but may be leveling off According to another price-tracking website, gasbuddy.com, prices were as low as $3 per gallon at the Buc-ee’s near Interstate 95 and LPGA Boulevard. In Palm Coast, the lowest-cost gas was reported at the Amoco at State Road 100 and I-95, according to the website. In reporting its numbers, AAA cautioned that prices could see a short-term increase after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on another round of oil production cuts over the weekend. The latest cut of 1 million barrels per day, slated to start in July, comes after OPEC producers agreed in a meeting in Vienna to extend earlier production cuts through next year, according to the Associated Press. “It's unclear how much of an effect this will have on fuel prices, but if oil prices rise significantly, drivers would likely see higher prices at the pump,” said Mark Jenkins, AAA spokesman. This is the latest in several rounds of production cuts. Last year, OPEC agreed to cut oil production by 2 million barrels per day. In April, the cartel surprised the market by cutting an additional 1.16 million barrels per day. This caused a brief jump in oil prices, which cooled through May. OPEC hopes this additional 1 million barrels-per-day cut will send oil prices higher again, Jenkins said. Overnight, the U.S. oil price traded at above $72 per barrel. That's only about a dollar more than Friday's closing price, and within the same range that oil prices have been in during the past month. The most expensive gas prices in Florida are in West Palm Beach ($3.60), Naples ($3.48) and Miami ($3.48), according to AAA. The least expensive gas prices statewide are Crestview-Fort Walton Beach ($3.20), Panama City ($3.29) and Pensacola ($3.30). Here is a list of tips from AAA: Combine errands to limit driving time. Shop around for the best gas prices in your community. Pay with cash. Some retailers charge extra per gallon for customers who pay with a credit card. Remove excess weight in your vehicle. Every 100 pounds removed from the vehicle improves fuel economy by 1-2%. Drive conservatively. Aggressive acceleration and speeding reduce fuel economy. AAA updates fuel price averages daily at GasPrices.AAA.com. Every day, up to 130,000 stations are surveyed based on credit card swipes and direct feeds in cooperation with the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express for statistical reliability. All average retail prices in this report are for a gallon of regular, unleaded gasoline. This article originally appeared on The Daytona Beach News-Journal: Gas prices in Florida hit lowest daily average since April, AAA said. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.