By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  05:36 EDT, 14 February 2023   |  Updated:  11:23 EDT, 14 February 2023      1 View  comments  Bella Ramsey has revealed she wore a chest binder '90 per cent' of the time she was filming The Last Of Us. The actor, 19, who identifies as gender-fluid, stars as Ellie on the HBO series which takes place during a global pandemic that has transformed the infected into zombie-like creatures. Speaking to G2 UK, Bella spoke about how her fluid identity influenced her portrayal of Ellie, feeling that wearing a binder helped her focus on set.   'Which probably isn't healthy,' she said. 'Like, please bind safely' Bella spoke about her gender identity with her co-star Pedro Pascal, whose sister is a transwoman. Candid: Bella Ramsey has revealed she wore a chest binder '90 per cent' of the time she was filming The Last Of Us (pictured in January 2023)  Role: The actor, 19, who identifies as gender-fluid, stars as Ellie on the HBO series which takes place during a global pandemic that has transformed the infected into zombie-like creatures She said: 'They weren't always deep: they could be funny and humorous, the whole spectrum. We were just very honest and open with each other.' Bella previously told the New York Times that she does not mind what pronouns are used to refer to her. She added: 'This is what bothers me more than pronouns: being called a 'young woman' or a 'powerful young woman', 'young lady,' but I'm just not [that].'  Bella has, however, enjoyed playing feminine characters like Birdy in Catherine Called Birdy and Jane Grey in Becoming Elizabeth. She had to wear dresses and corsets in both roles and said it made her feel 'super powerful' and felt like 'the opposite' of herself. The Last Of Us was first released on the Playstation 3 in 2013, and took the gaming world by storm, selling 1.3 million units in its first week and over 17 million by 2018.  The game is set 20 years after a pandemic wiped out most of the world, centering on Ellie, who may be integral to curing the pandemic, and a smuggler named Joel. Bella's character Ellie is a 14-year-old orphan, who struggles with learning she may have a big role to play in saving the world as she knows it. In character: Bella spoke about how her fluid identity influenced her portrayal of Ellie, feeling that wearing a binder helped her focus on set Co-stars: Bella spoke about her gender identity with her co-star Pedro Pascal, whose sister is a transwoman The game is considered by many to be one of the greatest of all time, which lead to the sequel, The Last Of Us Part II, released in June 2020. The sequel sold more than 4 million copies in its first weekend, making it one of the fastest-selling PS4 games. Before this new HBO series came to fruition, the game was previously in development as a movie adaptation at Sony Pictures. The show has been a huge success for HBO and was given a season two renewal in January.   Bella said: 'This is what bothers me more than pronouns: being called a 'young woman' or a 'powerful young woman', 'young lady,' but I'm just not [that]' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group