
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/07/21/a-stubborn-bid-ask-gap-is-keeping-cre-transactions-down/   The least affected sector is industrial. The term "mind the gap" had its start in England as a reminder that subway patrons should step over the space between the train door and platform. Today in commercial real estate, the gap is a bid-ask transaction one, where buyers and sellers are separated by a space between their respective valuations of a deal. Unfortunately, this price gap is having significant impacts on deal volumes, as MSCI noted in its Q2 2023 capital trends report. Deal transaction volumes have been down significantly, with "potential buyers and current owners are still too far apart on price expectations for higher levels of deal volume to close across most property sectors." The observation is in keeping with what many in CRE have related as anecdotal to GlobeSt.com since September 2022. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. By Kristen Smithberg |  August 19, 2024 Attitudes about office amenities vary by generation. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
