Car Collection of Arsenal Players The car collection of Arsenal and Manchester United players is mega exotic. Being two of the biggest clubs not just in Europe but across the globe, it should come as no surprise to anyone that their players lead a luxurious and lavish lifestyle. This includes things like luxury apartments, the latest gadgets, high-end fashion and our favourite, ostentatious automobiles. We shall concern ourselves with the top vehicles in the garage of some of the prominent players from both these teams. Here are the details. You may also like: Cars of Liverpool Players – Henderson’s Bentley to Firmino’s Rolls Royce You may also like: INSANE Car Collection of Chelsea Football Players – VIDEO Aaron Ramsdale, the first-choice goalkeeper of Arsenal, has played a prominent role in the team’s success this season. He has been seen with various vehicles, one of them being the Mercedes-Benz G63 AMG. This rugged SUV comes with a powerful 4.0-litre Biturbo V8 engine, generating an impressive 585 hp and 850 Nm of peak power and torque. Paired with a 9G-TRONIC automatic transmission, the SUV powers all four wheels, providing incredible off-roading capabilities. You may also like: English Premier League Football Managers and Their Cars An interesting fact is that Jesus made a move from Manchester City to Arsenal. As a forward, he has proven to be a prolific goal scorer in whichever team he plays. Among his collection of automobiles, he is frequently seen in the Mercedes-Benz GLS 450. This luxurious SUV features a potent 3.0-litre 6-cylinder engine, producing 362 hp and 500 Nm of peak power and torque. The engine is paired with a 9-speed automatic gearbox, which efficiently sends power to all four wheels. You may also like: Expensive Cars of Bayern Munich Players Saka has been a long-standing member of the club, and his attractive wages have allowed him to amass an impressive collection of expensive sports cars. Arguably, the most iconic among them is his Ferrari 458 Spider. This remarkable car boasts a massive 4.5-litre naturally aspirated V8 engine, delivering an impressive 510 hp and 601 Nm of peak power and torque. With an automatic transmission, the sportscar achieves brisk acceleration, making it a true delight to drive. You may also like: Leo Messi vs Kylian Mbappe – Who Has Better Car Collection? Next, we have Granit Xhaka, who has been a part of the club for several seasons now. His collection of automobiles is truly impressive, and he is frequently seen driving his beastly Lamborghini Urus. The Urus is equipped with a powerful 4.0-litre twin-turbocharged V8 engine, generating an astounding 641 hp and 850 Nm of peak power and torque. Paired with a sporty 8-speed automatic transmission, this SUV can accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h in just 3.6 seconds, making it one of the fastest SUVs on the planet. You may also like: Cars of Top West Ham United Players – Declan Rice to Kurt Zouma You may also like: INSANE Car Collection of Manchester City Players In the ongoing season, Marcus Rashford has been displaying the best form of his career. His consistent scoring for the Red Devils has made this season truly memorable for the young striker. When it comes to automobiles, his garage is filled with an impressive array of cars, such as the Mercedes CLA 45 Coupe, Mercedes S-Class, Range Rover Velar, Mercedes AMG G63, Mercedes GLA, Audi RS4 Avant, and Mercedes S Coupe. You may also like: Ronaldo’s Girlfriend Georgina Rodriguez Gifts Him a Rolls Royce Last but not least, we have Raphael Varane on this list. As a successful and established defender, he has had the opportunity to play for several prestigious clubs, including Real Madrid. A couple of seasons ago, he joined Manchester United and has since been showcasing impressive performances. His garage houses a multitude of luxurious automobiles, which include the McLaren 720S, Audi e-tron, Audi e-tron Sportback 55 Quattro, Jaguar F-Type, Audi Q7 50 TDI, Bentley Continental GT, and BMW. These are the cars of top players from Manchester United and Brighton & Hove Albion. You may also like: Car Collection of Arsenal Players – Aaron Ramsdale to Gabriel Jesus Jadon Sancho is another forward for Manchester United. He came to England from the German Bundesliga a couple of years ago. He has proven himself with numerous goals during his time at the English club. Among the vehicles in his garage, the most remarkable one is the Mercedes G-Wagon modified by Brabus. In its most powerful iteration, the G-Wagon is equipped with a 4.0-litre twin-turbocharged V8 engine, producing an impressive 585 hp and 850 Nm of peak power and torque. This engine is paired with a 9G-TRONIC AMG SPEEDSHIFT automatic transmission, driving power to all four wheels. You may also like: Top 10 Barcelona Players and Their Cars For quite some time now, David De Gea has proven to be a world-class goalkeeper, playing a significant role in securing numerous clean sheets for Manchester United throughout the campaign. He is one of the best goalkeepers in the world presently. His collection of vehicles in the garage is truly impressive, which includes the Aston Martin Vantage, Minivan, Mercedes-Benz Vito, Mercedes-Benz GLE Coupe, and several others. You may also like: Barcelona vs Real Madrid – Which Players Have Better Cars?  © 2023 Car Blog India, All Rights Reserved  © 2023 Car Blog India, All Rights Reserved