Another title match has been added to the March 14 episode of WWE NXT. NXT Tag Team Champions Gallus (Mark Coffey & Wolfgang) have been feuding with Pretty Deadly (Elton Prince and Kit Wilson) in recent weeks, and WWE has confirmed that the two teams will clash on Tuesday night. GBOT or Yes Boy?#Gallus defends the #WWENXT Tag Team Championship against #PrettyDeadly TOMORROW!? 8/7c on @USANetwork pic.twitter.com/frsuOtadKj — WWE NXT (@WWENXT) March 13, 2023 The updated card for the March 14 episode of WWE NXT is as follows: NXT North American Championship Open Challenge: Wes Lee (c) vs. TBD NXT Tag Team Championship: Gallus (Mark Coffey & Wolfgang) (c) vs. Pretty Deadly (Elton Prince and Kit Wilson) Johnny Gargano appears Dabba-Kato vs. Apollo Crews WrestleZone will have coverage of the show as it airs. The post Tag Team Title Match Set For 3/14 WWE NXT, Updated Card appeared first on Wrestlezone. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.