
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/07/19/construction-software-and-consulting-firm-info-tech-to-split-into-two-companies/?slreturn=20240819114044   The consulting arm will spin off while the infrastructure construction software part will become Infotech. Consulting and services are often considered important in technology companies. They can help smooth out variability in earnings that would otherwise be stronger with product release cycles. But Info Tech is taking an alternate approach. The company, which has had software and consulting practices, will split into two: software product company Infotech and consulting firm McClave + Associates. "This separation is a strategic initiative to best position both companies for long-term, targeted growth in their respective markets," the company says. The company also suggests that It seems to be a split allowing for each of two family members of 1977 co-founder Dr. Jim McClave to be in charge of an entity. According to the press release: "Infotech and McClave + Associates will fully operate as separate entities with independent executive leadership. Dr. Jamie McClave will serve as both CEO and Expert for MC+A and Will McClave will be President and CEO of Infotech." 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. By Kristen Smithberg |  August 19, 2024 Attitudes about office amenities vary by generation. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
