Menu  London, Bloomsbury Become a cybersecurity expert through one of the most established Master’s programmes in this field. The Information Security MSc provides a core education in all aspects related to cybersecurity, including an opportunity to study a module certified by the National Cyber Security Centre – part of GCHQ. Taught at UCL, world-renowned for computer science research, this is an exceptional place to put yourself at the cutting edge of information security. Become a cybersecurity expert through one of the most established Master’s programmes in this field. The Information Security MSc provides a core education in all aspects related to cybersecurity, including an opportunity to study a module certified by the National Cyber Security Centre – part of GCHQ. Taught at UCL, world-renowned for computer science research, this is an exceptional place to put yourself at the cutting edge of information security. Applications closed Applications open A minimum of an upper second-class UK Bachelor's degree (or international qualification of an equivalent standard) in computer science, electrical engineering, or mathematics. Relevant work experience may also be considered.   
                  The English language level for this programme is:                                      Level 2
 UCL Pre-Master's and Pre-sessional English courses are for international students who are aiming to study for a postgraduate degree at UCL. The courses will develop your academic English and academic skills required to succeed at postgraduate level. Further information can be found on our English language requirements page. Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below. Please note that the equivalency will correspond to the broad UK degree classification stated on this page (e.g. upper second-class). Where a specific overall percentage is required in the UK qualification, the international equivalency will be higher than that stated below. Please contact Graduate Admissions should you require further advice. Cybersecurity is an issue that pervades all industries and sectors, and UCL is one of the global leaders in the field. This programme enables you to learn from renowned lecturers who are also researchers in their areas of expertise, sharing their knowledge about the very latest developments in this fast-moving space. 
 
In this programme, you will learn core cybersecurity knowledge through compulsory modules that cover computer security, research in information security to help you prepare for your dissertation, cryptography and secure data communication – which are particularly sought-after skillsets in industry. Optional modules that reflect the current trends in the cybersecurity world allow you to specialise and deepen your knowledge in specific areas. 
 
By successfully passing the programme and the optional Information Security Management module, you will earn a certificate from the National Cyber Security Centre, which is part of GCHQ. You will also undertake a project during the summer term. This could be working with an industry partner, which will expose you to the current questions industry is working on. Or it could be an academic research project, priming you for a future PhD or career in research. 
  This MSc is designed to appeal to computer science, electrical engineering and mathematics graduates who wish to be involved with the security aspects of information technology. The programme is intended as a foundation to a rewarding career at the more advanced levels of information security. UCL is ranked 9th globally in the latest QS World University Rankings (2024), giving you an exciting opportunity to study at one of the world’s best universities.      UCL Computer Science is recognised as a world leader in teaching and research. The department was ranked first in England and second in the UK for research power in Computer Science and Informatics in the UK's most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF2021.) You will be taught by academics with an outstanding reputation in the field, most notably in cryptography and human-centred approaches to security, privacy and trust. Access to industry-led projects and guest lecturers from academia and industry will enhance post-graduation opportunities for careers in security-related research, or employment in cybersecurity roles. The department is recognised as an academic centre of excellence on cybersecurity and further opportunities to expand both academic and industrial contacts arise through the ACE-CSR guest lecture series integrated into the degree. The programme team takes an experimental approach to their subject, enjoy the challenge and opportunity of entrepreneurial partnerships, and place a high value on our extensive range of industrial collaborations. UCL Computer Science graduates are highly valued as a result of the department's strong international reputation, strong links with industry, and ideal location close to the City of London. Graduates pursuing careers in industry are well placed to work for big international firms such as Amazon, Apple and Meta, or in sectors ranging from finance to non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Our graduates gain jobs as penetration testers, malware analysts, security engineers, cryptographers, blockchain engineers and a variety of other cybersecurity roles. The fast pace of change in the cybersecurity world means there are ample opportunities in research and academia too. The programme is designed to enhance your career prospects through the advanced study of information security topics. It aims to educate you to make an early and substantial contribution to your future employer in broad areas, from threat modelling and risk analysis over vulnerability exploitation to secure system design. You are prepared to assume key security-related roles in your field, such as security standards compliance, secure software design, or security consultancy, being able to apply independent and critical analysis to a variety of cybersecurity disciplines. The research-based curriculum promotes strong research skills, enabling you to evaluate and add to the evidence-base of the profession. UCL is proud to support innovation and link our students and research directly to real-world business applications. From internships to solving complex problems with commercial partners, UCL Engineering has a collaborative, innovative spirit at its core. As a student and later as a graduate, you will have access to a UCL Engineering careers events programme, connecting you with employers and alumni. This programme provides invaluable insight into the reality of different roles, sectors, and current application processes. Entrepreneurial minds thrive at UCL. For example, UCL’s IDEALondon was the first innovation centre led by a university in London, and incubates companies post-seed to reach technical and business milestones. Our academic and industrial networks provide a safe and supportive environment to grow a company. Information Security MSc has full certification by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). Certification applies for students entering the programme in 2023-24. To be eligible for certification, students must take Information Security Management (COMP0059) as an optional module and meet the programme’s Award Requirements. The programme’s core curriculum is typically delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorials, and lab classes, as well as directed and self-directed learning supported by teaching materials and resources, published through each module’s online virtual learning environment. Each module employs a teaching strategy that aligns with and supports its intended learning outcomes. You will be assessed through a range of methods across the programme, which will vary depending on any optional or elective module choices. The programme’s core curriculum is typically assessed by methods including coursework, lab work, individual and group projects, class tests, written examinations, oral assessments, and, in all cases, culminating in a final research project/ dissertation. Contact time takes a variety of forms, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, project supervisions, demonstrations, practical classes and workshops, visits, placements, office hours (where staff are available for consultation), email, videoconference, or other media, and situations where feedback on assessed work is given (one-to-one or in a group).
Each module has a credit value that indicates the total notional learning hours a learner will spend on average to achieve its learning outcomes. One credit is typically described as being equal to 10 hours of notional learning, which includes all contact time, self-directed study, and assessment.
The contact time for each of your 15 credit taught modules will typically include 22-30 hours of teaching activity over the term of its delivery, with the balance then comprised of self-directed learning and working on your assessments. You will have ongoing contact with teaching staff via each module’s online discussion forum, which is typically used for discussing and clarifying concepts or assessment matters and will have the opportunity to access additional support via regular office hours with module leaders and programme directors.
Your research project/ dissertation module is 60 credits and will include regular contact with your project supervisor(s), who will guide and support you throughout your project. You will dedicate most of your time on this module to carrying out research in connection with your project and writing up your final report. Contact time takes a variety of forms, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, project supervisions, demonstrations, practical classes and workshops, visits, placements, office hours (where staff are available for consultation), email, videoconference, or other media, and situations where feedback on assessed work is given (one-to-one or in a group). Each module has a credit value that indicates the total notional learning hours a learner will spend on average to achieve its learning outcomes. One credit is typically described as being equal to 10 hours of notional learning, which includes all contact time, self-directed study, and assessment. The contact time for each of your 15 credit taught modules will typically include 22-30 hours of teaching activity over the term of its delivery, with the balance then comprised of self-directed learning and working on your assessments. You will have ongoing contact with teaching staff via each module’s online discussion forum, which is typically used for discussing and clarifying concepts or assessment matters and will have the opportunity to access additional support via regular office hours with module leaders and programme directors. Your research project/ dissertation module is 60 credits and will include regular contact with your project supervisor(s), who will guide and support you throughout your project. You will dedicate most of your time on this module to carrying out research in connection with your project and writing up your final report. The Information Security MSc is a one-year programme. In term one, you will study topics that introduce you to security concepts and techniques, including the core security principles required to engineer systems providing confidentiality, integrity and availability, and the foundations of cryptography and information security. You will choose from a range of optional topics, which may include cryptocurrencies, malware, the philosophy, politics and economics of security, and distributed systems and security. In term two, you will study topics that deepen and extend your knowledge of computer security and develop an advanced understanding of network and computer security vulnerabilities, as well as countermeasures, in real-world systems. You will learn what research in information security is about, how to identify a contribution, what the quality standards in scientific publications are, and to study selected technical sub-topics in depth. You will choose from a range of optional topics, which may include, people and security, information security management, privacy enhancing technologies, practical program analysis, and cybercrime. You will also begin preparation for your final research project/ dissertation. In term 3, you will primarily focus on your final research project/ dissertation and any examination that take place in the main examination period. Please note that the list of modules given here is indicative. This information is published a long time in advance of enrolment and module content and availability are subject to change. Modules that are in use for the current academic year are linked for further information. Where no link is present, further information is not yet available. 
                              Students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits.                                            Upon successful completion of 180 credits, you will be awarded an MSc in Information Security.                           Details of the accessibility of UCL buildings can be obtained from AccessAble accessable.co.uk. Further information can also be obtained from the UCL Student Support and Wellbeing team.  Online                  - Open day 
 
                    Join us for a live online information session to hear from Computer Science staff. We will cover areas such as the general admission process, careers support, and industry links/placements. There will also be an opportunity for you to ask staff and current students any questions you may have. Two sessions will run for this event. These sessions are the same and are repeated to cater to people in different time zones.                    The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Where the programme is offered on a flexible/modular basis, fees are charged pro-rata to the appropriate full-time Master's fee taken in an academic session. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Students website: ucl.ac.uk/students/fees.

 All full-time students are required to pay a fee deposit of £2,000 for this programme. All part-time students are required to pay a fee deposit of £1,000. Students will require a modern computer (PC or Mac) with minimum specifications 8GB RAM and 500GB SSD storage. A computer with the stated specifications is estimated to cost £500 or greater. Students will require a modern computer (PC or Mac) with minimum specifications 8GB RAM and 500GB SSD storage. A computer with the stated specifications is estimated to cost £500 or greater. For more information on additional costs for prospective students please go to our estimated cost of essential expenditure at  Accommodation and living costs. For more information about funding opportunities for UCL Computer Science taught postgraduate programmes, please see the department's scholarships webpage. For more information about funding opportunities for UCL Computer Science taught postgraduate programmes, please see the department's scholarships webpage. For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website. 
NOW CLOSED FOR 2024/25 ENTRY
Value: Tuition fees plus £15,700 stipend ()
Criteria Based on financial need
Eligibility: UK
 
Deadline: 3 June 2024
Value: $20,000 (1 year)
Criteria Based on both academic merit and financial need
Eligibility: EU, Overseas
 Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines. There is an application processing fee for this programme of £90 for online applications and £115 for paper applications. Further information can be found at Application fees. When we assess your application we would like to learn:

why you want to study Information Security at graduate level
why you want to study Information Security at UCL
what particularly attracts you to this programme
how your academic and professional background meets the demands of this programme
what programming experience you have
where you would like to go professionally with your degree

Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
Due to competition for places on this programme, no late applications will be considered. Students with visa requirements or applying for scholarships are advised to apply early. When we assess your application we would like to learn: Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver. Due to competition for places on this programme, no late applications will be considered. Students with visa requirements or applying for scholarships are advised to apply early. Please note that you may submit applications for a maximum of two graduate programmes (or one application for the Law LLM) in any application cycle. Please read the Application Guidance before proceeding with your application.  cs.pgt-admissions@ucl.ac.uk UCL is regulated by the Office for Students. Register interest in your chosen subject to receive notice of graduate open days, events and more. Search and filter over 2,000 graduate degrees and find your perfect course. cs.pgt-admissions@ucl.ac.uk Computer Science