Curated power industry news from thousands of top sources. Upgrade your news experience today!click for more info News NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) — Electricity generated from renewable energy sources on Cyprus could eventually make up as much as half of all power conveyed to other countries through an electricity cable linking the east Mediterranean island nation's power grids to Israel and Greece, the Cypriot energy minister said Tuesday. Natasa Pilides told reporters that renewable sources produced almost 15.2% of Cyprus' electricity last year, nearly 4% more than in 2019. Contributing to that figure was an nearly 3% increase in electricity generated from solar panels from 2020, reaching 9.2% last year. Pilides said her ministry is consulting with the European Union about increasing the country’s 2030 target for RES-generated electricity from the current 23%. Construction of the EuroAsia Interconnector cable by the Norwegian subsidiary of French cable manufacturer Nexans is slated to begin before summer. The first phase and it's first phase with a 1,000 megawatt capacity is expected to be completed in 2026. The cable to Greece and Israel, which will eventually have a 2,000 MW capacity, is touted as the world’s longest and deepest subsea electricity cable, at 1,208 kilometers (750 miles) and 3,000 meters (1.9 miles). It will cost roughly 1.6 billion euros ($1.56 billion), with the EU providing a little under half of the funding. Cyprus is the only EU country that isn't linked to the power grid of another member of the 27-nation bloc. Government officials said the construction of the cable would end the country's energy isolation and provide greater security. No discussions yet. Start a discussion below. The Energy Central Power Industry Network® is based on one core idea - power industry professionals helping each other and advancing the industry by sharing and learning from each other. If you have an experience or insight to share or have learned something from a conference or seminar, your peers and colleagues on Energy Central want to hear about it. It's also easy to share a link to an article you've liked or an industry resource that you think would be helpful. Start a Post »                  Learn more about posting on Energy Central » Your access to Member Features is limited. Subscribe today to the Daily Power Industry Newsletter for the most up-to-date and relevant utility industry news. Electrical Distribution Planner (Electrical Engineer III)
			City of Fort Collins
			Fort Collins, Colorado GIS Industry Solutions Manager - Renewable Energy
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Industry Solutions Specialist, Energy Utilities
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California GIS Industry Solutions Manager, Gas & Pipeline
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Energy & Environmental Advisor
			City of Rochester
			Rochester, Minnesota Substation Electrical Communications Specialist
			City of Fort Collins - Light & Power
			Fort Collins, Colorado Analyst - Senior Analyst, Utility Marketing and CX
			E Source
			Denver, Colorado Chief Executive Officer 
			Central Valley Electric Cooperative 
			Artesia, New Mexico Vice President of Engineering
			Long Island Power Authority
			Uniondale, New York Chief Executive Officer
			Kansas Electric Power Cooperative
			Topeka, Kansas President and Chief Executive Officer
			NOVEC
			Manassas, Virginia Engineering Associate II
			Lower Colorado River Authority
			La Grange, Texas Executive Director
			Redwood Coast Energy Authority
			Humboldt County, California Director, Division of Revenue & Rates
			New Jersey Board of Public Utilities
			Trenton, New Jersey Transmission Line Engineer: Operations and Maintenance (Civil/Structural)
			LCRA
			Austin, Texas Power Management Control Engineer
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Assistant General Manager for the Electric & Gas Utility
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Senior Engineer - Grid Infrastructure
			North Carolina Electric Cooperatives
			Raleigh, North Carolina Manager - Cybersecurity and Energy Management System
			Brazos Electric Cooperative
			Waco, Texas Power Plant Control Room Operator (Gas/Coal)
			Lower Colorado River Authority (LCRA)
			La Grange, Texas Chief Executive Officer
			Duck River EMC
			Shelbyville, Tennessee 