Isabel began feeling really thirsty before becoming unable to move her right arm and right leg. She has made a lot of progress since the stroke, which happened in June 2022 Sign up to our free email newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and daily roundups  We have more newsletters Sign up to our free email newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and daily roundups  We have more newsletters Robots have been helping a Cambridgeshire woman to recover after she had a stroke at work. Isabel Purcell, 57, from Turves, had a bleed on the brain which meant that she could not move her right arm and leg. Since the stroke on June 23, 2022, Isabel has been undergoing physiotherapy and rehabilitation to regain movement and independence. This has included using state-of-the art robotic equipment to build up her mobility. Isabel was on a lunch break from her job as a bus driver when she began feeling "really thirsty". She went into the canteen where she laughed and joked with colleagues before sitting down and going on her phone. Read next: Cambs GP surgery to close with just six weeks notice "My right arm just fell off my leg," Isabel said. "I tried to pick it up and it wouldn't move." A colleague called for an ambulance, but, on being told that it would take an hour to arrive, Isabel was taken to hospital in a colleague's car. She also became unable to move her right leg and was later told that she had been "talking gibberish" despite thinking she was speaking normally. Isabel remembered arriving at the hospital, and then doesn't remember anything until she woke up in the hospital after being resuscitated. There were plans for a helicopter to take her to Addenbrooke's Hospital, but, Isabel said: "they didn't think I'd make the journey". She was stabilised and moved to Hinchingbrooke Hospital, where she spent a few weeks before being transferred to Askham Village Community near Doddington. She was then looked after by the team at Askham Rehab, who use therapy and technology to help people with rehabilitation. "After the first session, I'd got a little bit of movement in my fingers," Isabel said. "To me, it was hopeful. It meant that if I've got movement in my fingers, I can get movement everywhere." After eight weeks, Isabel was discharged, and now visits the team as an outpatient. "I do have days where I'm very frustrated," she said, "but if I get a bit down, they say, 'look how far you've come'." Her main goal is to return to her job as a bus driver, if she regains the mobility and strength needed. "I wouldn't go back if I thought it wasn't right, because it's not just my life – it's other people's lives," she said. Isabel is positive that her recovery will continue to progress, thanks to physiotherapy and rehabilitation. She said: "I just think, thank God I'm still here. I'm still seeing my family grow up." READ MORE: Cambridge student saves man's life after cardiac arrest in front of children shouting ‘daddy’s dead’ Speeding lorries could be destroying historical buildings in Cambridgeshire Cambs teen rips sink off wall at football match Man who couldn't read or write till 18 becomes Cambridge University's youngest Black professor Huntingdonshire officially recognises climate crisis - four years after neighbouring councils 