A suspect is in custody after a faculty member at the University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill was shot dead on the afternoon of August 28, school officials said. Shots were reported fired at 1:02 pm at the school’s Caudill Laboratories, and a suspect was taken into custody shortly after 2:30 pm, media citing Chancellor Kevin Guskiewicz reported. Emma Culley, who is a freshman at UNC and has lived in Chapel Hill since elementary school, told Storyful the event is something she “never would have thought would happen here.” “I was studying in Wilson library when I got the alert to hide so I stayed under a desk for about 2 hours until some officers came into the building to evacuate us to a different building” Culley told Storyful. Video filmed by Culley shows students who were in the Wilson library being moved to the Genome building. “Shortly after getting to the Genome building we were told to evacuate to South Campus which is where many student dormitories are and that’s when I made it back to my dorm” she said. The names of the faculty member and the suspect are yet to be released. Credit: Emma Culley via Storyful - Now we go across the street. - Thank you. I have a back injury, so won't be able to-- - Get out this way. Go that way. [INTERPOSING VOICES] - [INAUDIBLE] now the first building up there on the right. - Now we go across the street. - Thank you. I have a back injury, so won't be able to-- - Get out this way. Go that way. [INTERPOSING VOICES] - [INAUDIBLE] now the first building up there on the right. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.