Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Even the shortest-lived Mayflies got nothing on instant-grocery start-ups. Istanbul-based grocery delivery start-up Getir is in talks to buy up... For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to
The Daily Upside newsletter.
It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day. Even the shortest-lived Mayflies got nothing on instant-grocery start-ups. Istanbul-based grocery delivery start-up Getir is in talks to buy up Berlin-based start-up Flink, according to a report in the Financial Times. Speedy grocery start-ups experienced a European boom two years ago, but the wheel of time brought a tidal wave of consolidation to the sector, which appears to be drawing to a close. In 2021, instant-delivery start-ups proliferated in Europe like an algae bloom. At least 19 separate instant-delivery start-ups sprung up on the continent in 2021 according to Insider, and investment in them quintupled between 2020 and 2021, from $1 billion to $5 billion. These companies, which promised 15-minute delivery from mini-warehouses dotted around cities, were powered by wads of VC cash to keep them churning on the razor-sharp margins (or, more often, losses) that characterized their business models. It's taken only slightly longer than 15 minutes for that bubble to burst, as the vast majority of those companies have either gone bankrupt or been acquired in the last few months. Now it's up to financial Darwinism to decide who will be the last delivery app standing: Gorilla Warfare: Even if Getir ends up the only 500-pound gorilla (made easier by its acquisitions of Berlin-based delivery start-up Gorillas, alongside London-based Weezy and Spain's Blok), that's no guarantee of success. It faces competition from food-delivery apps like Uber Eats, a company that knows all too well what happens when growth-over-profit economics grind to a halt. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.