Instant grocery delivery startup Zepto has raised $200 million in a new funding round at a valuation of $1.4 billion, it said Friday, at a time when most other firms in the category have either died or are struggling. The funding makes Zepto the first Indian startup to attain the unicorn status this year. StepStone Group, an influential LP in many venture funds including Nexus Venture Partners, led Zepto's Series E funding in what is the U.S. firm's first direct investment in India. Goodwater Capital and existing backers, including Nexus, Glade Brook Capital and Lachy Groom, also participated in the round. Zepto was last valued at $900 million in a funding round it unveiled in May last year. The startup, which has raised about $560 million to date, witnessed no secondary transaction in the new round, Zepto co-founder and chief executive Aadit Palicha said in an interview. The funding comes at a time when the vast majority of instant delivery startups globally -- Gopuff, Jokr, Getir, Gorillas, Instacart and others that collectively raised more than $10 billion -- have significantly curtailed their operations, have seen their private valuations plummet or have shut down entirely. Closer to home, Zepto-rival Blinkit got sold for less money than it had raised after nearly a decade of operation. Reliance Retail-backed Dunzo has deferred payments to employees and cut workforce after aggressively spending over $150 million to expand its dark stores, a gamble that appears to have not worked at all. So what has worked for Zepto? "Most people don't realize this, but businesses that are driven by supply chain and are operationally intense are fundamentally about execution," Palicha told TechCrunch. "The high-level elements that people keep throwing -- existence of deep-pocketed competitors, who all is on the cap table etc. -- don't matter. What matters is the basis point by basis point execution and discipline with which you are governing every inch of your supply chain." Palicha and Kaivalya Vohra co-founded Zepto when they were 19.The duo -- who had previously worked on a number of projects, including a ride-hailing commute app for school kids, and dropped out of Stanford two years ago -- took Zepto out of stealth mode in late November 2021. The startup, which sells and delivers everything from grocery items to electronic gadgets, processes more than 300,000 orders a day in seven Indian cities. Zepto, like many other firms operating in the category, relies on hundreds of so-called dark stores that dot popular neighborhoods across cities. The vast majority of these stores are fully EBIDTA positive, Palicha said. In fact, Zepto has reduced its "burn" significantly and is aiming to be IPO-ready with a company-wide EBIDTA-positive metric in 12 to 15 months, he said. The startup -- whose annualized revenue sales today exceeds $700 million, according to Palicha -- has grown its sales by 300% year-on-year and is targeting $1 billion in annualized sales within the next few quarters, he said. "Even with this capital, we want to maintain our discipline, avoid complacency, and push hard to hit EBITDA positivity," said Kaivalya Vohra, Zepto co-founder and CTO, said in a statement. "In that journey, the biggest drivers of P&L improvement for us are based on technology and product. We are building one of the best supply chain product stacks in the country today and we are investing heavily in customer-facing product as well. This technical excellence is in our DNA, and I’m excited about the next phase of building." Zepto plans to go public by 2025 as "a profitable, growing technology company that customers love," the company said. The funding makes Zepto the first unicorn from India this year amid a protracted slowdown in the economy that has significantly hurt the appetite of investors. Indian startups raised a mere $5.46 billion in the first half of 2023, a substantial 68% decline from the $17.1 billion during the same time frame in 2022 and a drop from $13.4 billion in H1 2021, according to market intelligence firm Tracxn. Sixty-five Indian startups became unicorns -- reached/exceeded $1 billion valuation -- in 2021 and 2022. "It feels like I’ve been making fewer investments this year because Zepto keeps the comparative bar so high," Will Robbins, GP at Contrary, an early-backer of Zepto, told TechCrunch. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.