The Sky News cost of living blog will be replaced by Money, a new look live page featuring the same news, advice and features, in the New Year. You can submit a financial dilemma for our experts below - the best will feature in Money. Thursday 7 December 2023 11:13, UK This blog, which has brought Sky News readers news and advice through the cost of living crisis, and has been the only such blog by a mainstream UK news provider, is no longer active - but if you've enjoyed following along you don't have to wait long for a replacement. In January, we're launching a new consumer-focused Money page, providing the same rolling updates and advice, as well as news and analysis on the economy. We're excited to show you all the great features we have planned - so make sure you keep an eye out early in the New Year. One such feature will be our Money team addressing your financial dilemmas - by speaking to professionals to give you a clear picture of what you can do. It could be a consumer issue, or a problem with your bills, or financial planning. And while we can't offer specific financial advice, we can give you an overview of your options and set out what you could do next. You can submit your dilemma now using the form above - including your name and where you live. Alternatively, email news@skynews.com outlining your problem and, again, include where you live. Emails needed "Money blog" in the subject line. If you're planning a trip to European destinations like Paris, Amsterdam or Brussels, the Eurostar is a pretty hassle-free transport option.  But while many of us have got savvy with finding cheap flight deals, it can be a little harder to work out how to get the cheapest tickets on the Eurostar.  Which? has now put together a handy guide, and says the best time to buy at least three months in advance.  Tickets are available to purchase up to 11 months in advance, with prices remaining fairly flat until about three months before.  If you can be flexible on when you travel, you can compare prices week to week using the "find lowest fares" tool on its website.  It's also worth noting return fares are cheaper than two single fares.  You can sign up to the Eurostar newsletter to be the first to know about special offers - usually for off-peak travel periods. If you need to change the date or time of your Eurostar ticket, there's no fee up to seven days before departure – you just pay the difference in fare.  While we continue to bring you cost of living updates, our business team has been reporting the latest news from the City.  Here are some of today's top stories... US employers added 336,000 jobs in September. That was up from 227,000 in August. As far as markets were concerned though, it was anything but good news.Our business presenter Ian King has this analysis. Wetherspoons has seen its first annual profit since the COVID pandemic. It is crediting a surge in sales and reduction in costs for the news. Elon Musk's $44bn (£36bn) takeover of Twitter is under investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and he could be compelled to testify. McDonald's has defeated a lawsuit in the US that accused the fast food chain of lying about the size of its burgers. A customer called Justin Chimienti claimed McDonald's misled its customers with ads that showed bigger and juicier burgers than restaurants actually served.  But US district judge Hector Gonzalez said the company had images on its website and also noted the weight and calories each burger contained.  The judge said Mr Gonzalez failed to prove a reasonable customer would be misled by the adverts.  The suit was 
                                        one of several false advertising lawsuits
                                         filed recently against fast-food companies by New York lawyer James Kelly. In August, a federal judge in Florida refused to dismiss a class action lawsuit Mr Kelly filed against Burger King claiming that the company's ads overstate the amount of meat in its Whopper burger and other sandwiches. Mr Kelly has also sued Taco Bell and Arby's.  Savvy travellers can book train tickets between London and Birmingham for under £10.  Avanti West Coast has just slashed its "Superfare" ticket by 25% to just £9 each way.  To snap up the reduced prices, passengers need to book between one and three weeks in advance for a morning, afternoon or evening ticket.  They will be informed 24 hours before departure which train they are on.  The move was first reported by travel correspondent Simon Calder for the Independent newspaper.  He said the price cut comes as competition between rail and coach firms heats up.  Sarah Copley, commercial director at Avanti West Coast, said: "We're working hard to encourage more people to take the train and the new Superfare ticket on the Birmingham route, at just £9 for over one hundred miles, is great value for money.  "And with a fastest journey time of one hour 17 minutes, the train is the best way to travel between the capital and the West Midlands." Avanti West Coast launched its Superfare ticket on a number of routes earlier this year.  They include: Bargains for the London to Birmingham stretch can also be snapped up on other train lines.  Taking 23 October as an example, Sky News found several providers offering advanced single tickets for as little as £8.  Adding railcards can reduce prices further.  We aren't usually one for self-promotion here, but this is a genuinely good offer if you already have a Sky subscription. This week Sky launched a new offer where Sky Cinema customers in the UK and Ireland will get two free Vue cinema tickets every single month - at no extra cost.  With standard and VIP seats now the best part of a tenner, it's a good saving and cheap date night (I know we would say this).  Tickets are valid Sunday to Thursday on all standard 2D screenings. How to claim your 2 free Vue tickets Head to the VIP section of the My Sky app. If you don't have the app, download it from your device's app store. Click on the "Your Vue tickets for October" tile. Enter your email and click "Claim your codes" Here's another development in the dispute between Sainsbury's and Which? (see our post at 13.08). The consumer group has denied claims from Sainsbury's that its analysis on supermarket prices is inaccurate. Which? released its monthly analysis on supermarkets this morning - and it showed that for the first time Sainsbury's has overtaken Waitrose this month to become the most expensive supermarket to do a big shop.  The analysis was done without including loyalty card prices. Sainsbury's told Sky News the claims were "false and insulting". But Which? has stood firm. "We stand by our independent research," a spokesperson said in a statement to Sky News. Every month the consumer group compares the price of a big shop - a larger trolley of around 130 items - and a basket of about 40 items at a selection of supermarkets. The analysis includes special offer prices but not multi-buys or loyalty discounts, which are not open to everyone. Which? says it never shares the full list of products it compares to avoid supermarkets lowering prices on those items specifically.  Yesterday we brought you the news that Cadbury has scrapped its reduced-sugar chocolate bar - well, it looks like it is another bad day for snack lovers. If you've been struggling to find Walkers Worcester Sauce crisps, we have bad news. The brand confirmed the flavour was discontinued last year.  It hasn't confirmed why it made the decision.  Fans have flocked to Twitter (now X) to lament the loss of the "God tier crisps".  One said: "Walkers sacking off Worcester sauce crisps is absolutely criminal, as if the damage hadn't been done enough by getting rid of beef and onion." Another added: "Every week for the last eight months I've been looking on the Tesco website for Worcester Sauce pack of six but they were always out of stock, now I know why.  "They are my favourite crisps and I will miss eating them straight from the bag and in sandwiches. RIP Worcester Sauce RIP." In what is generally a bad day for crisp fans - and the Walkers PR team - people are also outraged by the number of crisps they get in a bag of pickled onion Monster Munch. It seems the packs, which are based on weight, only have space for between six and seven crisps. Sigh. Sainsbury's has hit out at consumer group Which? over analysis it has called "false" and "insulting".  In its latest monthly comparison of supermarket prices, Which? found that Sainsbury's overtook Waitrose as the priciest supermarket for a big shop for the first time (see our post at 11.45am).  That's if you don't use a loyalty card. In a statement to Sky News, a spokesperson for Sainsbury's said: "These claims are entirely false and insulting to the millions of savvy customers who choose to shop with us every week.  "There is an overwhelming amount of independently verified data showing the great value customers get when shopping at Sainsbury's.   "We are disappointed that Which? has refused to share its data with us and has instead chosen to mislead customers by choosing to exclude Nectar Prices promotions in its research.   "The vast majority of our customers are shopping with Nectar Prices and have saved £400m on their shopping in the last six months. Customers can be sure they are getting great value every time they shop with us," Sainsbury's added.  The supermarket claimed Which? had "cherry-picked" which groceries to use in its analysis.  Which? compared the cost of a large trolley of 131 branded and own-label items at six different supermarkets.  Sky News has contacted Which? for a comment.   