Residents say you can hear 'young lads' racing through the streets at night The latest court and crime news from Leeds We have more newsletters The latest court and crime news from Leeds We have more newsletters Oakwood in Leeds has been revealed as an area with the worst drivers in the UK. A new map revealed where the worst drivers are across the UK - with Leeds, Bradford, Wakefield and Halifax featuring high on the list. But one area of Leeds is home to more bad drivers than anywhere else in Yorkshire.  In the LS8 postcode area, which covers Oakwood, there are 1,034 drivers with six or more points on their licence. And, residents seem to agree that the area can be notorious for bad driving as 'young lads' tear through their streets at high speeds.  Read more: Tributes to 'brilliant' Leeds dad tragically 'crushed to death by own car' Residents have spoken of the 'dangerous' and 'horrendous' speeds that drivers rip through their streets at 70mph, in particular Oakwood Lane is notorious for menacing driving and is well known to have crashes. One resident, Stuart, who claims to have asked Leeds City Council for help, said: "It’s horrendous for speeding and people over taking each other, especially with high powered cars. I’ve worked with the council and asked them to put speed bumps in but they have said it isn’t bad enough. "I live in the main road and there are always accidents on the junctions."Another resident, Peter, added: “They race up and down all night, it’s not just one, it’s one after the other overtaking each other at 70mph." Sue has lived on Oakwood Lane for a long time and can recall a number of serious crashes in the street, which have resulted in fatalities. She said: "It’s later at night you can hear them going up the street in their throaty, fast cars. "When there is traffic through the day it’s fine, they drive at a normal speed but later in the evening usually after tea time on a night that’s when you hear it. You hear the cars going so fast up the street, you can hear the throaty sound they make. "It always seems to be young lads in what I can only imagine to be borrowed cars off their parents." She added: "We had one incident a few years ago where my neighbour had an accident pulling out of her driveway onto Oakwood Lane in her car, she was reversing out and a van crashed into her, I phoned the police because they were stopped in the middle of the road and it could have caused a bigger accident. "When the police came, a young lad in an Audi came racing up the street at about 60mph, and I don't know how she did it [talking about the police officer] but she just put her hand out and stopped him. Anyway, the car got towed away and his dad had to come to pick him up. It will have taught him a lesson - but it could have been much worse." Sue recalled another serious accident that happened in Oakwood Lane, which involved cars travelling at high speed. She said: "About 15 years ago three men died in what we can only assume, was a police chase, speeding up the street. They crashed into the giant oak tree because they had no headlights on and were travelling really fast. It was horrendous. "I would say after dark is so much worse, they all race up late at night in their fast, throaty cars and that’s when it’s bad." Another resident added: "Sometimes it’s bad for people driving motorbikes and showing off." However, others claimed that nearby areas were much worse than Oakwood. One resident said: "It’s no worse than any other area for racing and things. I think Harehills is a lot worse when you drive through there it’s terrible." The local Postman said: "It’s definitely not, Harehills is much worse." LeedsLive have asked West Yorkshire Police and Leeds City Council for a comment. Read Next: Inside stunning £2million Leeds property with outdoor swimming pool and hidden bar Four decisions that cost Victor Orta his Leeds United job from recruitment to outbursts Huge Eurovision Song Contest party to take over Millennium Square in Leeds Fuming Yorkshire family hit with £480 fines for holiday in school term time Get the latest Leeds Live news with our email newsletters 