NFL The NFL franchise tag is a buzzy phrase during the football offseason. It’s one of professional sports’ quirkiest contracts, a type of deal that is unique to the NFL. For some players, being franchise tagged is an achievement, a designation of inclusion into the league’s upper echelon. For many others, it’s a disappointing hindrance in securing a long-term deal. Advertisement Here’s everything you need to know about it ahead of the 2024 season deadline opening on Feb. 20:: A franchise tag is a one-year contract that every NFL team is allowed to issue once per offseason. It allows a franchise to strategically retain a player on a guaranteed deal with a non-negotiated salary. It can only be used on players set to become unrestricted free agents. Here are the two types of franchise tags: The combination of a cheaper salary and the steep price of two first-round picks has made the non-exclusive tag the more popular option for teams to use. Teams also use the tags as a negotiation strategy for drawing big trade offers out of other teams. A player can be franchise tagged multiple times in his career. The tag gets more expensive with each use, as a player is guaranteed at least 120 percent of his previous year’s salary when tagged a second time. If a player is tagged a third time, he gets either 120 percent of the average of the top five salaries at the position, 144 percent of his previous year’s salary or the average of the top five salaries for the highest-paid position in the league (which is always quarterbacks). Whatever number is highest becomes the player’s new salary. Prior to the change to make additional franchise tags more costly, Seahawks offensive tackle Walter Jones was tagged in three consecutive offseasons before holding out for a long-term deal. The 2006 collective bargaining agreement amended the franchise tag following Jones’ case, making it much more expensive to tag a player for a third time. The franchise tag has long been viewed as a favorable stipulation for team owners and general managers. It minimizes long-term risk for team builders by allowing them to keep a desired player on a one-year deal. If the player gets injured or their performance falters, the team can let them walk or re-sign them at a lower rate. Among players, the tag is generally unpopular. Stars hoping to secure a long-term contract are restricted in their negotiations by the tag, as players don’t have an official way to refuse. GO DEEPER Should Giants let Saquon Barkley test free agency? What would the RB's market look like? Some players have fought back against being franchise tagged and have resorted to holding out during training camp and even extending that into the season in some cases. Here are a few of the most notable cases: GO DEEPER NFL free-agent rankings: Brian Burns, Saquon Barkley, Kirk Cousins lead the top 150 This 2023 offseason marked the 30th anniversary of the franchise tag. It was first introduced in 1993 through the NFL’s fourth-ever CBA after the players association sought to create a form of free agency. NFL owners, in turn, were looking to install a salary cap. The policy was first referred to as the “Elway Rule,” as the concept came about after Broncos owner Pat Bowlen refused to sign the CBA due to fears of losing his star quarterback to free agency. The tag was initially only used for quarterbacks in order to keep the franchise’s most important players from leaving. Over time, the franchise tagging strategy has shifted from superstars to targeting breakout players in order to keep them under team control.   For the second consecutive season, one of the most high profile franchise tag candidates is Giants running back Saquon Barkley. Barkley’s tag last season was worth $10.091 million. The back was coming off his most productive season since his rookie year with 1,312 rushing yards on 295 carries (both career highs) and 10 touchdowns in 2022. This past season, he totaled 962 yards and six touchdowns in 14 games. GO DEEPER The Tee Higgins-Bengals crossroads, Part 1: Understanding the ramifications Other notable franchise tag candidates include Jaguars linebacker Josh Allen, Panthers defensive end Brian Burns, Patriots safety Kyle Dugger, Raiders running back Josh Jacobs, Ravens defensive tackle Justin Madubuike and Bengals receiver Tee Higgins. Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Baker Mayfield, who is coming off one of the best seasons of his career having led his team to the playoffs, is also eligible to be tagged. GO DEEPER NFL salary-cap cut candidates for all 32 teams: Nick Chubb, Joe Mixon among possibilities GO DEEPER NFL beat writer mock draft: Trades shake up top 10 picks and QB landscape (Photo of Barkley: Elsa / Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us.