MLB SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — Buster Posey was wrapping up his keynote address to the assembly of Giants minor league players at Papago Park on Thursday. He emphasized that although reaching the major leagues requires focus and dedication and sometimes manufactured confidence when the real stuff is in short supply, the dream might not be as far away as you think. He inspired them to recognize the really, really cool opportunity in front of them: to be among the next wave of homegrown, championship-level players that will create indelible memories not only for themselves but for a generation of Giants fans. Advertisement Then he opened up the floor for questions. The young players asked about a range of topics. One question had to do with how Posey dealt with failure in the minor leagues. In the back of the room, special assistant coach Joe Panik had to stifle a chortle.  Buster? He plowed through the minors, Panik thought. He was hitting .321 in Triple-A a year after he was drafted. Hey, you can’t expect the guy to be an expert on everything. “I mean, just Google him,” Panik said with a laugh. “I’m not sure he knew how to answer that one.” The Giants’ player development directors, coaches and coordinators make it a point every year to have franchise legends address the entire camp. Willie Mays, Willie McCovey and Orlando Cepeda were the main speakers for many a spring. Then it was Will Clark. Now it’s Posey who is most relatable to current minor league players, most of whom were born in this millennium. And Posey isn’t just a living legend to them. He’s also a member of the ownership group. When Posey speaks, everyone listens. “I really liked what he said about being prepared and getting confidence from knowing you’ve put in the work,” said Kyle Harrison, regarded by most as the Giants’ top pitching prospect and by some as the top left-handed pitching prospect in all of baseball. “The mental side, that was the biggest separator. Having that confidence is the biggest thing, building it at each level. When you have that confidence, that’s what makes you unstoppable. “And I also enjoyed that he chirped at the pitchers a little. He joked that we’re always blaming the catchers for messing up, which OK, I get. Catchers bear the burden so I gotta agree with him. He said MadBum would tell him, ‘Listen man, I’ll throw whatever you put down so if it doesn’t go my way, I can just blame you.'” Harrison might have needed the pep talk. The Giants reassigned him to Papago Park earlier in the week after a rough and abbreviated three-appearance stint in major league camp. Harrison had a 19.64 ERA (eight earned runs on 10 hits plus three walks in 3 2/3 innings). He’ll get stretched out to at least three-inning starts in minor league camp, then ramp up to five innings after the season begins at Triple-A Sacramento. Advertisement Everyone from Giants president Farhan Zaidi on down has characterized Harrison’s arrival in the major leagues this season as a matter of when and not if. But there’s work to do. Giants manager Gabe Kapler said he had a “sobering” conversation with Harrison in which the 21-year-old was encouraged to reduce arm-side wildness and shrink his scatter plot. “Four innings can’t tell you much,” Kapler said. “There’s some count leverage adjustments that Kyle will need to make to be great at the major-league level. I think he will make those adjustments quickly. There’s nothing physically that is holding him back. Just mostly experience and reps in the upper levels.” Kapler noted that Harrison was “exactly as advertised: extremely talented, super bright, thoughtful professional, hard-working, the guy you push your chips in on. And now he’s got to go get that experience.” And as Posey said, the dream might not be as far away as you think. “I’m back at this amazing facility and am getting ready to face Triple-A hitters,” Harrison said brightly. “I learned a ton: knowing when to show up, how to show up. Knowing your mentality. The game moves pretty fast up there and with the pitch clock, it’s even faster. I got to see how my stuff plays. The results didn’t go in my favor but now I know what to do to compete on that level: limit my pitches per inning and continue to make my misses smaller and smaller. That’s what every top-tier pitcher does. “If all goes well, I know what potentially could happen. It won’t change the way I think. Just stick to the process and hopefully toe that rubber in San Francisco pretty soon.” Two-way player and 2022 first-round pick Reggie Crawford isn’t thinking about the big leagues. He isn’t thinking about competing on any field at any level. He continues to focus on rebuilding arm strength nearly 18 months after undergoing Tommy John reconstructive elbow surgery in October 2021. His bullpen progression was put on hold because of a case of mononucleosis that forced him to report late and without a whole lot of strength. Now his energy levels have returned and he’s scheduled for his first “100 percent full go” bullpen session on Friday. He’s been up to 94 mph thus far and said he didn’t anticipate adding more velocity until he starts throwing live batting practice in early April. Crawford said he developed a new changeup during his months of rehab, strictly by studying the pitch and visualizing the act of throwing it. “My arm couldn’t do the work,” Crawford said. “So I just had to think about what the perfect changeup would look like and how it would feel coming out of my hand. You have to do something to fill the free time.” Advertisement Giants farm director Kyle Haines said it sometimes feels like Crawford has thrown a million bullpens since the club drafted him 30th overall last July. “The ramp-up has taken a lot longer than we hoped, nobody more than Reggie,” said Haines, adding that the elbow hasn’t had any physical setbacks. “And we’ve backed off a lot of the hitting. We don’t want that to get in the way of the pitching side.” Crawford, whose goal is to reach the majors as an outfielder/pitcher, made his pro debut last year with six games in the Arizona Complex League in which he went 3 for 19 with no extra-base hits and nine strikeouts.  He has been tracking pitches in the cage and taking bottom-hand swings. But his swing progression won’t begin in earnest until April. It’s anyone’s guess when this summer he’ll be healthy and prepared to be assigned to an affiliate. But he’s confident he’ll be able to pursue both career paths. “I only know baseball doing both (pitching and hitting),” Crawford said. “So I’m not even stressed about that.” It’s looking more and more likely that another first-round pick, right-hander Will Bednar, also won’t break camp with an affiliate. Bednar, the 14th choice in 2021 out of Mississippi State, has been limited to catch play because of a stress reaction in his lower back. He’s working with the Giants to improve his core and rotational strength before he’d start throwing off a mound. The news is better about the crop of pitchers the Giants took after Crawford in last year’s draft. The entire group is having a fantastic camp, Haines said. Left-hander Carson Whisenhunt is flashing a 2-mph velocity bump and has been up to 96 in his mound sessions while showing further refinement of a changeup that many evaluators believe is big-league ready. Third-rounder Will Kempner, a right-hander from Gonzaga by way of Valley Christian High in San Jose, is throwing 98 mph with a power slider from a low three-quarter arm slot. Fourth-rounder Spencer Miles has been another standout. And fifth-rounder Liam Simon, a right-hander whose wildness (57 walks in 62 1/2 collegiate innings) prevented him from pitching more often at Notre Dame, is making meaningful refinements. “If he’s in the strike zone, it’s a first-round arm,” Haines said of Simon. Sometimes it’s hard to notice when a player on the periphery is having a good spring. But here’s a good sign: when he sticks around longer than everyone who had lockers around them. Kade McClure isn’t on the 40-man roster and he didn’t garner the attention of pitchers like Harrison, Keaton Winn or Tristan Beck. He had a 4.97 ERA as a long reliever for Triple-A Charlotte last season. The Giants got him at the end of December from the White Sox, who liked Gregory Santos and wanted to jump the waiver wire after the hard-throwing right-hander had been designated for assignment. Advertisement McClure, 27, required no 40-man protection but the Giants liked his 6-foot-7 frame and his consistent ability to throw strikes. He also arrived as a willing lump of clay. “If you want to try out some stuff, I’m the guy to try it on,” he told director of pitching Brian Bannister. “I’m your puppet.” So the University of Louisville alum didn’t bat an eye when the Giants recommended that he ditch his slider, even though he considered it his best pitch. He’s replaced it with a sweeping breaking ball that seems to be all the rage in major league camps this spring. He also added a cutter and worked to refine his two-seam and four-seam fastballs. Harrison, Winn and Beck are all in minor league camp. McClure is practically by himself in what now serves as the auxiliary or spillover clubhouse at Scottsdale Stadium. His name isn’t one the first you’d spout off when listing all the Giants’ pitching depth, but perhaps he should be. “I’m a big fan of Kade McClure,” said Bannister, in what was an unsolicited comment. “He’s really come out and overhauled his identity and just been a pleasure to work with. He has a lot of weapons and he’s just starting to harness them. I think he’s really going to help us at some point in multiple roles.” Another guy in camp who keeps showing up is outfielder Wade Meckler, who has made frequent appearances on Cactus League rosters and has even started games. What makes Meckler unique is that he’s the only member of the 2022 draft class who is spending any time on the major league side. Clearly the Giants are intrigued by Meckler, whose shock of red hair stands out more than his 5-foot-10, 180-pound frame. Meckler has one heck of a backstory. As the Oregonian reported last year, the Anaheim native barely played at Oregon State beyond pinch-running appearances and was encouraged by the coaches to transfer so he didn’t waste his eligibility. Advertisement “I’m sitting there and I’m like, ‘(Expletive) this. I’m not going anywhere,’” Meckler told the Oregonian. “I text the skipper and ask if we can meet the next day. Then I go in there and I basically tell him: ‘I might not be an All-American this year. I might not be an All-American next year. But I promise you, I’m going to be an All-American one day at Oregon State. I’m not going anywhere. You need me and I’m going to prove it.’” The coaches believed him, but when they had to pare a roster spot, it was Meckler who got cut. He stuck around in Corvallis anyway, refusing to go away. He made his way back onto the team. Then he fulfilled his prophecy. He hit .347 as a senior last year while becoming one of the Beavers’ top hitters and the Giants drafted him in the eighth round. The Giants sent him out right away and he finished the season by playing 11 games at Low-A San Jose, hitting .439 with a .540 on-base percentage. Good luck trying to get rid of him now. Shortstop Yosneiker Rivas is getting attention for being far ahead of the rest of his cohort, too. In Rivas’s case, his cohort was the Giants’ international signing class that the organization just announced in January. Rivas is one of just three players in the class that they brought stateside for minor league spring training, along with Dominican outfielder and top signee Rayner Arias ($2.7 million) and Taiwanese right-hander Chen-Tsu Lee ($650,000). Rivas, who hails from Venezuela and received a $1 million bonus, is the youngest player at Papago. He just turned 17 in October and he might need to eat three stacks of pancakes to reach his listed weight of 161 pounds. But he’s been one of the buzziest performers in camp, wowing coaches with his actions in infield drills and turning around 94 mph fastballs in live batting practice as if he’s been facing that kind of velocity his whole life. OK, then. When you’re barely 17 years old, maybe those big-league dreams aren’t right around the corner. (Top photo of Kyle Harrison: Matt Kartozian / USA Today) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Andrew Baggarly  is a senior writer for The Athletic and covers the San Francisco Giants. He has covered Major League Baseball for more than two decades, including the Giants since 2004 for the Oakland Tribune, San Jose Mercury News and Comcast SportsNet Bay Area. He is the author of two books that document the most successful era in franchise history: “A Band of Misfits: Tales of the 2010 San Francisco Giants” and “Giant Splash: Bondsian Blasts, World Series Parades and Other Thrilling Moments By the Bay.” Follow Andrew on Twitter @extrabaggs