You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Expert Reviewed Updated: Aug 19, 2024, 3:32pm If you want to know how to get a limited liability company (LLC) in Illinois, you are not alone. LLCs are popular business entities. Formation of LLCs skyrocketed in the late 1990s after the IRS changed its rules, allowing LLC owners to choose how they’re taxed. Establishing an LLC can feel complicated if you’re new to the process and do not know all the steps. LLCs in Illinois are governed by the Limited Liability Company Act. We’ve done the research and put together this simple guide to forming an LLC in Illinois. Featured Partners  1 ZenBusiness $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 1 ZenBusiness On ZenBusiness' Website 2 LegalZoom $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 2 LegalZoom On LegalZoom's Website 3 Northwest Registered Agent $39 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 3 Northwest Registered Agent On Northwest Registered Agent's Website 4 Formations $0 + State Fee Varies By State & Package 4 Formations On Formations' Website You’ll want to take care of a few crucial details before you move forward with forming your LLC. These steps will help you avoid unnecessary delays or wasting money. Illinois requires your LLC name to be distinguishable from every other LLC or corporation name registered or reserved in the state. To avoid having your formation paperwork rejected, be sure to research business name availability using the Department of Business Services search engine. It is also possible to reach out by phone regarding LLC name availability by dialing 217-524-8008. You should prepare alternative business names just in case your first choice is not available. Reserve Your LLC Name (Optional)  To hold a name for business use, you must file Form LLC-1.15, the Application to Reserve a Name. The form also lets you transfer or cancel a name reservation. The filing fee to apply for a business name is $25; if you wish to cancel your reservation, the price is only $5. This form will hold your desired LLC name for up to 90 days; filing this form is not the same as forming an LLC. It is also not mandatory. If you aren’t ready to file your formation paperwork yet, this is an excellent first step in ensuring your preferred name will be available for use once you establish your Illinois business entity. Illinois LLC Naming Requirements and Exceptions When naming your business entity, you must by law include “Limited Liability Company” or the abbreviations “LLC” or “L.L.C.” However, in Illinois, any business entity providing professional services licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation must use “Professional Limited Liability Company” or abbreviate it to “PLLC” or “P.L.L.C.” Likewise, a worker cooperative must use the term “Limited Worker Cooperative Association” or abbreviations “LWCA” or “L.W.C.A.” Illinois requires you to appoint a registered agent service to receive legal documents on behalf of your business. An agent can be an Illinois resident or a company authorized to do business in Illinois. The agent must have a street address in the state, known as the registered office. You or one of your employees can act as a registered agent as long as you meet the requirements. LLCs and corporations are not legally able to act as their own registered agents in Illinois. You can also appoint a registered agent to act on your behalf. You can spend as much as $300 or as little as $49 per year; it usually comes down to the quality of service, so be sure to ask questions and read reviews. Click on the state below to get started.  
			Start Now
		
 To form an LLC in Illinois, you must file Form LLC-5.5, or the Articles of Organization, with the Secretary of State’s Department of Business Services. You could choose to make the formation effective on the filing date or at a later time, as long as it does not exceed 60 days. You can complete the entire process online. Otherwise, submit all documents to: Secretary of State
Department of Business Services
Limited Liability Division
501 S. Second St., Room 351
Springfield, IL 62756 The filing fee is $150. Make your certified check, cashier’s check, certified public accountant’s check, Illinois attorney’s check or money order payable to Secretary of State. Foreign Business Entities Operating in Illinois If you own a foreign or out-of-state entity and wish to operate within Illinois, you must complete a Form LLC-45.5. The process costs $150. Even after setting up your LLC, a few additional actions are necessary to keep your business in good standing and in line with federal requirements. Although not mandatory, creating an operating agreement is strongly recommended. Not only does it provide legitimacy to your business, but it also ultimately provides a foundation for your LLC. This agreement dictates everything from how you intend to run the business to each member’s financial contributions. If there is a dispute about roles, procedures or finances, all parties can refer to this agreement for clarification. By law, most LLCs must have an Employer Identification Number, or EIN. It is also called a Federal Tax Identification Number (FTIN) or Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN). You’re exempt from this requirement if you own a single-member LLC with no employees, but many solopreneurs choose to get an EIN anyway. To get one, simply log in to the official IRS website. In Illinois, both domestic and foreign LLCs must file an annual report before the first day of the anniversary month of the business entity’s formation. You must file the document within 60 days after the due date or you’ll incur a $100 penalty. If you don’t file a report within the next 120 days, the LLC will be administratively dissolved. The yearly fee is $75. You may also be responsible for paying an annual personal property replacement tax. Once you set up your LLC, you can then complete Form LLC-50.25 to receive a Certificate of Good Standing. This document verifies that your business is legitimate and that you have permission from the Secretary of State to do business within Illinois. Financial institutions sometimes require a certificate of good standing before you can open a bank account or obtain credit. You’ll also typically need a certificate before you can register for authorization to do business in other states. The standard fee is $25, but you can expedite the process for an additional $20. In addition to following this series of steps, it is always a good idea to remain updated regarding requirements and any changes to forms or fees. Taking special care from the beginning of the process and beyond will put your Illinois LLC on the path to long-term success. Illinois LLCs have different tax requirements depending on how they elect to be treated by the IRS. By default, the IRS taxes single-member LLCs as sole proprietorships and it taxes multi-member LLCs as partnerships. LLCs can elect to be taxed as C-corporations, and some LLCs can be taxed as S-corporations. A consultation with a tax professional will help you understand your options and minimize your tax burden. For more information on state and federal tax filings and forms, visit the Illinois Department of Revenue page. The process of forming an Illinois LLC can be complex for new business owners. Here are a few resources for forming your business in Illinois: Click to get started. LLC State Guides 
 When determining how to start an LLC, there are several types of LLCs to choose from. Knowing the LLC structures available is essential for selecting a business model that most closely aligns with the nature of your company and how you intend for it to operate. These LLC structures include: Forming an Illinois LLC is a popular choice for business owners looking to protect themselves and their co-owners from liability attributed to the company. The state of Illinois allows LLCs to be taxed as sole proprietorships, partnerships or corporations, allowing owners to choose the best tax structure for their businesses. Forming an LLC in Illinois costs $150. Submit the filing fee and your Articles of Organization to the Secretary of State. To reinstate a limited liability company that has been administratively dissolved or revoked, both domestic and foreign companies must submit an application, all annual reports (maximum of six years) and all fees. You can also submit a change to your registered agent information during this process. The filing fee for a reinstatement application is $200. You should receive a response to your electronic LLC application within about 10 days. Mail applications may take significantly longer to process. If you need the LLC even faster than that, you can pay for 24-hour expedited processing, which costs an additional $100. The Illinois Secretary of State registers DBAs for corporations and limited liability companies, while county clerks register DBAs for sole proprietorships, partnerships and professional corporations. Follow the procedures in your operating agreement to add an LLC member. If you don’t have an operating agreement, follow the Illinois LLC laws. If you are adding a member who has the authority of a manager, you’ll need to amend your articles of organization. You will need to pay a $50 filing fee to file the new amendment to your articles of organization. For more on this process, check out our guide on How To Add A Member To An LLC. To dissolve or terminate your domestic Illinois LLC, you must submit the form LLC-35.15, Statement of Termination, to the Illinois Secretary of State either by mail or in person. You will also be required to pay the $5 filing fee. For more on this process, visit our how-to guide on How To Dissolve An LLC. 

 Chauncey grew up on a farm in rural northern California. At 18 he ran away and saw the world with a backpack and a credit card, discovering that the true value of any point or mile is the experience it facilitates. He remains most at home on a tractor, but has learned that opportunity is where he finds it and discomfort is more interesting than complacency. Kelly Main is a Marketing Editor and Writer specializing in digital marketing, online advertising and web design and development. Before joining the team, she was a Content Producer at Fit Small Business where she served as an editor and strategist covering small business marketing content. She is a former Google Tech Entrepreneur and she holds an MSc in International Marketing from Edinburgh Napier University. Additionally, she is a Columnist at Inc. Magazine.