
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2022/12/09/jll-announces-new-group-to-serve-the-financial-services-industry/   Bobby Magnano and Giles Wrench to lead JLL Financial Services JLL formed a new group in the Americas, called JLL Financial Services. Led by President Bobby Magnano and Vice Chairman Giles Wrench, the new group will offer research, consulting, transactions, portfolio optimization, capital spend, workplace experience design and facility operations. Additional areas of focus for JLL Financial Services include sustainability, integrated technology, data security and risk management. Magnano joined JLL in 2021 as the Global Account Executive for the Bank of America account, where he led a global team of over 1,200 employees. He brings more than 26 years of industry expertise having previously served as Senior Vice President of Enterprise Services for Capital One. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 They consist of 22 retail and 171 residential units. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
