Tuesday, 20 August 2024, 08:06 This is stated in an update by a U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War (ISW), Ukrinform reports. As noted, Prigozhin said on April 21 that Russia needed to "anchor itself in such a way that it is only possible to tear out [Russian forces from their positions] with the claws of the opponent." Analysts point out that Prigozhin's comment emerged after the discussion of the outcome of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group meeting at the Ramstein Air Base in Germany, the obligations undertaken by Western partners to train more Ukrainian personnel and continue military assistance to Ukraine. Prigozhin also noted that Ukraine would try to "tear" Russian forces and that Russia should resist such attacks, ISW added. "Recently, Prigozhin's rhetoric has become increasingly alarmist as he made statements about the uncertain future of Russian offensive operations in Donbas. Prigozhin's calls to strengthen Russian defenses in the occupied territories and frequent discussions of the prospects of Ukrainian counteroffensives are notable as they indicate he is trying to amplify the discussion in the Russian domestic information space,” analysts wrote, adding that Russia, however, continues to conduct offensive operations in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Prigozhin is also advocating for Russia to focus on holding the current frontlines rather than seeking more gains so that Russian forces can regain their combat effectiveness for later offensive operations, the report said. At the same time, ISW writes that a number of Russian ultranational figures argued that the Russian defense ministry signaled efforts to recruit as many as 400,000 contract servicemen to ensure a sufficient number of military personnel to defend and effectively freeze the current frontlines in Ukraine. ISW noted that the Russian military command was redeploying conscripts to hold Russian positions in Crimea and may be planning to prepare new resources for Russia to retain some lines once the potential Ukrainian counteroffensive culminates. The report emphasizes that Putin prefers loyalty over competence, which likely prevents Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Chief of the General Staff Valery Gerasimov from focusing on creating optimal conditions for effective defense instead of wasting elite units on grueling battles for minor gains. Topics Agency While citing and using any materials on the Internet, links to the website ukrinform.net not lower than the first paragraph are mandatory. In addition, citing the translated materials of foreign media outlets is possible only if there is a link to the website ukrinform.net and the website of a foreign media outlet. Materials marked as "Advertisement" or with a disclaimer reading "The material has been posted in accordance with Part 3 of Article 9 of the Law of Ukraine "On Advertising" No. 270/96-VR of July 3, 1996 and the Law of Ukraine "On the Media" No. 2849-Х of March 31, 2023 and on the basis of an agreement/invoice. © 2015-2024 Ukrinform. All rights reserved. 