"There’s a lot of story left for the show to go into season three." Heartstopper creator Alice Oseman has teased what could happen in season three of the Netflix show.  The coming-of-age drama returned to the small screen earlier this week with its second season, continuing the stories of the Truham School students.  With development on the third season now underway, Oseman teased future developments in an interview with Metro, saying the show would end up in a “new place.”  Related: Heartstopper director teases deeper journey for Isaac beyond season 2 “People who have read the books will know that there’s a lot of stuff we haven’t yet covered in volume four,” she began. “But there’s also going to be volume five, which is coming out in December, and there’ll be a volume six as well.  “So there’s a lot of story left for the show to go into season three. In season two we’ve started to explore mental health in a big way, and I think it’s pretty obvious from the way we leave the season that is going to be a big element of season three.  “We’re going to continue to look at that in a big way and explore how that affects Nick and Charlie’s relationship, and all of the other friendships in the show. So people who’ve read volume four will have a little bit of an idea of what is coming. I’m really excited to take the show into that new place,” she added.  Whilst the crew is preparing for the third season, one actor who won’t be present is Sebastian Croft, with the star confirming his exit as Ben Hope following the conclusion of the second season.  Related: Heartstopper director admits he initially thought season 2 wasn’t as good as season 1 “He took on possibly the toughest role in the show and executed it with such intelligence and determination,” Oseman said of Croft’s performance. We were in constant debate about finding the line between Ben being unrealistically demonic and too sympathetic.  “I feel we found that line and I am so proud and honoured that Sebastian has been a part of Heartstopper. I know that he'll go on to do incredible things, and I will be cheering from the sidelines all the way.” Heartstopper seasons 1-2 are streaming on Netflix. Reporter, Digital Spy George is a freelance writer who specialises in Movies and TV. After graduating with a degree in Film Studies and Journalism from De Montfort University, in which he analysed the early works of Richard Linklater for his dissertation, he wrote for several websites for GRV Media.  His film tastes vary from blockbusters like Mission: Impossible and John Wick to international directors such as Paolo Sorrentino and Hirokazu Kore-eda, and has attended both the London and Berlin film festivals.
  How to see Heartstopper star in new role Heartstopper shares first look at Michael Holden Heartstopper shares new season 3 clip Heartstopper s3 first look unveils new character Heartstopper's Kit Connor debuts short hair Heartstopper's Rhea Norwood teases "darker" s3 Heartstopper star achieves "dream" new role Heartstopper season 3 news, cast and more Heartstopper's Alice Oseman shares release update Heartstopper confirms season 3's release date Jonathan Bailey's Heartstopper role confirmed Heartstopper marks big milestone with new photos DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.