Leaders of Utah’s largest Jewish synagogue invited Elder Gerrit W. Gong to speak at its 50th-anniversary celebration on Sunday, May 7, at This Is the Place Heritage Park. “On behalf of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and all your neighbors and friends in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, warmest heartfelt congratulations on this auspicious 50th anniversary of Congregation Kol Ami. Mazel tov,” Elder Gong said as he addressed the hundreds of attendees. The Jewish congregation has roots that date back 170 years in the Salt Lake Valley. Elder Gong, a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints’ Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, told those attending the celebration that the Church’s connection to its Jewish friends dates back to those earliest days. Elder Gong was joined by his wife, Sister Susan Gong, at the event. The audience also included the Utah Area presidency’s first and second counselors, Elder Evan A. Schmutz and Elder Hugo E. Martinez, both General Authority Seventies. The two of them were joined by their wives, Sister Cindy Schmutz and Sister Nuria Martinez, respectively. The Tabernacle Choir at Temple Square was represented by President Gary B. Porter, second counselor in the choir’s presidency. He was joined by his wife, Sister Debra Porter. Local government leaders who attended the event and spoke included Utah Lt. Gov. Deidre Henderson, Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson and Salt Lake City Mayor Erin Mendenhall. When the first Jews moved to the Salt Lake Valley a few years after the Saints had settled in the area, Brigham Young offered them land to have a place to worship. Kol Ami’s Rabbi Samuel L. Spector, who has been with the congregation in Utah since 2019, said he has a great respect for the Church and the history the two religions share. “It was Brigham Young who gave us our first land for a synagogue,” Rabbi Spector said. “He gave us a room on Temple Square before we had a synagogue to be able to pray.” Elder Gong said the friendship that started then, continues today. “We appreciate your eagerness to link arms in lifting family, friends and neighbors. We acknowledge the mutual respect our communities enjoy. Our heartfelt desire is that this relationship will continue to grow in a spirit of trust and goodwill,” he said. Rabbi Spector shared how some of that trust built with Church leaders started when Brigham Young stood up for the Jewish community in Utah in the 1850s. “When there was a boycott that was starting to be organized — at that time — of Jewish businesses, Brigham Young was the one to put a stop to it,” Rabbi Spector shared. “The rich friendship and brotherhood with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been a gift to our community since we arrived. And since I arrived in Utah, it’s been one of the greatest blessings of my life.” Elder Gong concluded his remarks by paraphrasing the traditional verses both religions share: “The Lord bless you, and keep you: The Lord make His face to shine upon you, and be gracious unto you: The Lord lift up His countenance upon you, and give you peace.”