Our evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission from our partners’ links. This content is created by TIME Stamped, under TIME’s direction and produced in accordance with TIME’s editorial guidelines and overseen by TIME’s editorial staff. Learn more about it. The summer equinox may be a few weeks away, but for many people, Memorial Day weekend kicks off the season. This federal holiday is a time to honor and mourn those who died while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, and it is a time for parades of remembrance, visiting gravesites and war memorials, as well as picnics, BBQs, and other gatherings of family and friends. In addition to being the “unofficial start” of summertime, retailers and shoppers have seized the long weekend opportunity to offer deep discounts and sales. During Walmart's Memorial Day sale, home furnishings and mattresses can be purchased for up to 50% off (and in some cases even more). Indoor and outdoor designs are also marked down, just in time for the new season. DreamCloud is offering up to 50% off of its mattresses during its spring sale leading up to Memorial Day when more savings will likely be shared. We have our eye on this DreamCloud Hybrid Mattress made from memory foam and springs,  now marked down to $665 (Queen) size. Take up to $900 off select mattresses like a Serta iComfortECO mattress, plus up to $400 on select adjustable bases. In addition, when you purchase a mattress, you may qualify for a Serta Classic bedding bundle. Sale ends 6/3. Summer is on its way, and you can set up your deck in style now that Terra Outdoor offerings are all up to 40% off sitewide–choose from furniture and accessories for al fresco dining, fireside, poolside, and lounging–all the things that make summertime a special season. Save up to 35% on sectionals and sofas, plus sitewide. Then, have everything shipped for free during Albany Park’s Memorial Day sale. Up to 40% off mattresses and other items during Nectar’s early Memorial Day sale on all things sleep. Its Memory Foam mattresses, a popular choice, are marked down to $649 and work well for sleepers who struggle with joint pain thanks to its therapeutic gel materials and minimal motion transfer. Eco-friendly materials and a sale? This Memorial Day Sale (5/7-6/11) has a whole tier of savings to offer shoppers - 20% off Original mattress and  Mint mattress; 27% off Mint Hybrid (Save up to $700); 20% off all bedding, pillows, protectors, toppers, duvet inserts, percale bedding, linen bedding, hemp bedding, quilts/throws; 15% off Nod 8”; 15% off Nod Hybrid and 20% off Kin 10”-- all these deals stay on the site until June 7, 2024. Enjoy a range of savings for Memorial Day at Amerisleep, including $500 off any mattress (code MD500), 30% off adjustable bed bundles (adj bed base + mattress), and 40% off upholstered bed frames with mattress purchase.  Sleep accessories are on sale, too:  20% off pillows, mattress toppers, and cooling bamboo sheets (just use code MD20). Save up to $1200 off select Beautyrest Black® - 2024 Edition mattresses with the purchase of an adjustable base so you can snooze more easily during the summer season (and the rest of the year). When you purchase a mattress, you’ll also get 50% off a set of pillows, plus $1000 off Harmony Lux™ mattresses with the purchase of an adjustable base. Shop early at the VIP Serena & Lily Memorial Day presale. Take 20% off these departments: dining, bedding and bath, custom furniture and lighting, 25% off outdoor items and rugs, 30% off wallpaper, and a whooping up to 70% off everyting in the clearance section. Take $150 off any mattress (code WIN 150), 20% off sports and body pillows (code MDPILLOWS), and save up to $1840 on adjustable bed bundles when you shop (don’t snooze) on this sale. If you are looking for an organic mattress or bedding for less over Memorial Day, this sale is for you. PlushBeds is offering up to 50% off its line of mattresses that rank highly for comfort, plus free shipping. If you need a whole new mattress makeover, take 25% off its toppers, pillows, and other bedding until June 10, 2024. Take $300 off any mattress (code VAYA300), and then shop for a bed with 15% off all Vaya platforms (code VAYA 300). Enjoy a new luxe organic mattress (or other bedding) for 25% off during Birch by Helix’s sitewide early access Memorial Day sale using code Memday25. Take 35% off all mattresses and get two free pillows when you shop Nolah’s early access Memorial Day sale. For example, the Nolah Evolution (a best-seller) is marked down to $1624 from $2499. This eco-friendly design team is offering up to 60% off some of its most popular styles of indoor and outdoor furniture. Get your home summer-ready with these mid-century modern handcrafted sofas, chairs, and tables. They are all made from sustainably sourced hardwood and stain—and scratch-resistant, non-toxic fabrics. Pick up sofas, loveseats, sideboards, and more for less during Apt2B’s Memorial Day sale online at its “Memorial Day Shop,” where prices are as marked on furniture and homegoods. This furniture sale shouldn’t be missed - get up to 30% off of Article’s mid-century modern masterpieces, like $599 dollars off its Lubek Slate Gray Low Corner Sectional Set–now only $2249. Sale ends May 27, 2024. Mark your calendar—starting on May 21, 2024, you can get 10% off the Branch WFH collection, including their best-selling Verve chair, Ergonomic chair, and Duo standing desk, and 15% off bundles of a chair and desk so you can work in comfort and style all summer (and beyond). Take up to 50% off outdoor furniture and accessories for less during Target’s Memorial Day sale. This is a great weekend for buying everything you need for your garden, patio, deck, or yard in anticipation of summer. Everything sitewide is 20% off for Memorial Day. Sure Fit sells a range of furniture protectors, slipcovers, decor, and accessories for your home. Take 20% off these departments: dining, bedding and bath, custom furniture and lighting, 25% off outdoor items and rugs, 30% off wallpaper, and a whooping up to 70% off everything in the clearance section. When you shop Nolah's Memorial Day sale, you can take 35% off all mattresses and get two free pillows. For example, the Nolah Evolution (a best-seller) is marked down to $1624 from $2499. While Memorial Day sales tend to focus on objects for the great outdoors, clothing, and mattresses, you can still find some decent deals on TVs, especially at Walmart. One popular option is this popular “frame” television (SAMSUNG 75" Class LS03B The Frame QLED 4K Smart TV), designed to look like art on your wall. Save $1,053 over Memorial Day and pick one up for $1,947. It’s a splurge and a steal. Pick up marked-down televisions this Memorial Day with savings on Samsung and Sony Smart TVs. Home Depot’s Memorial Day deals start on 5/16, 2024, and offer serious price cuts (up to 35% or more) on appliances. Customers with an affinity for Samsung products should check out the $1,000 price cut on its line of smart refrigerators. May is a special month for Maytag as it celebrates its annual spring sale, “May is Maytag month.” The sale offers up to 30% off on all its appliances, from stackable washer and dryer sets to electric ranges. Plus, buy three appliances and get $200 off. Known for its stellar Memorial Day sales, Lowes is offering big deals on large and small appliances.  Before the sale starts, enjoy its spring sale (ends 5/15) with up to 35% off major appliances. Keep your air clean and purified for less this summer.  Alen is offering 25% off 75i and 45i air purifiers plus $100 off the Flex until May 29, 2024. Kitchen essentials like cookware and bakeware are all up to 50% off, so start cooking all those delicious summer recipes. Yup, it’s a big sale–and now rugs are also marked down–indoor and outdoor options are up to 70% off through Monday, May 27 aka Memorial Day. Take up to 65% off items on sale during May - clothing, homegoods, and accessories are seriously marked down. Take 20% off clearance items with the code Extra20, and pick up everything you need to celebrate those long weekend summer holidays, like outdoor seamless wineglasses, portable bean bag toss games, and colorful multi-stripe beach towels. If you have been looking for a new set of stainless steel cookware, you can get 24% off this set when you use code SSMD24 - only from May 22-31, 2024. Rugs USA is kicking off Memorial Day early with its presale offering 25% off indoor, outdoor, washable, and custom-area rugs (and more) this May. Use code KICKOFF to receive your discount when you check out by May 22, 2024. Then, the sale goes sitewide with the same 25% off from May 23 to May 29, but this time, use code MDW - for Memorial Day. If you need accessories and other outdoor items, the weekend at World Market is a great time to shop. Homegoods designed for patios, decks, and porches are up to 30% off. Up to 70% sitewide means enormous savings on furniture and homegoods for the bed and bath, outdoor living, kitchen, and dining, so it is worth taking a deep dive into this summer sale. Get organized early for the new school year with up to 50% off items like stackable totes, closet organizers, shoe bags, and even backpacks! It’s a “summer steal sale” from Annie Seelke, and you can enjoy up to 70% off (plus an extra 20%) sitewide sale items by using the code SUNNY and selecting items like her gorgeous indoor/outdoor rugs, bedding, and accessories. Rugs USA is kicking off Memorial Day with 25% off indoor, outdoor, washable, and custom-area rugs (and more) this May. Use code KICKOFF to receive your discount when you check out by May 22, 2024. The sale goes sitewide with the same 25% off from May 23 to May 29, but this time, use code MDW for Memorial Day. Check out sales on laptops, speakers, computers, Chromebooks, and more–marked down by 40% during Amazon’s Memorial Day sale. This third-generation Echo (released in 2023) is under $100 ($94). Laptops like this one and other tech make great gifts for graduates, and they are marked down by hundreds of dollars (depending on the item) at Walmart during its Memorial Sale. Take up to $500 off of select Windows laptops for your graduate heading off to college this fall, plus other savings over Memorial Day weekend. Now is the time to take advantage of Wayfair’s Memorial Day sale, which offers up to 50% off markdowns on kitchen and dining furniture, like this modern farmhouse kitchen island. Take up to 50% off on thousands of sale items from May 19 until May 28, 2024. Now is the time to buy table linens, dishware, furniture, throw pillows, and more so you can set the stage for a wonderful summer. Memorial Day sales haven’t started yet, but you can save up to 35% on kitchen, dining, and other items during Crate & Barrel’s spring sale on items to make mealtimes special. Snap up savings from May 20-27, 2024, when West Elm offers up to 60% off select items for kitchen and dining and the rest of the home! Williams-Sonoma is offering up to 50% off kitchen, dining, small appliances, and more from May 20-27, 2024. Up to 50% off beautiful enamel cookware from Sur La Table, like this Enameled Cast Iron 5-Piece Set. If you have ever considered a pop-up swimming pool, Walmart is offering markdowns on kiddie pools and larger Intex options (and others)  this Memorial Day weekend—just add water! Memorial Day sales are a great time to pick up new patio furniture for the summer season. Crate & Barrel is offering up to 20% off outdoor items. Up to 50% off water sports gear, including massive floats, paddleboards, accessories, and all the things to make your summer fun during this Memorial Day Gear Sale. Everyone wants a Solo stove because it brings fire and fun to decks, patios, and other outdoor locations. During its Memorial Day sale, Solo smokeless firepits, accessories, and bundles are up to $125 off. It’s the biggest sale of the year! REI is offering up to 30% off products and clothing designed to support outdoor adventures this summer, plus a special 50% off during its weekly flash sales—shop the sales until May 27, 2024. If you need to upgrade your outdoor living space, Blue Dot sells mid-century modern designs - like these colorful punched metal lounge chairs- now up to 40% off for Memorial Day. Shop the site to find a wide selection of outdoor furniture and accessories. During Wayfair's Memorial Day sale, you can pick up everything you need for your patio at up to 50% off. The sale offers slashed prices on umbrellas, dining sets, loungers, and more. You can take 20% off EltaMd until May 27 and check out the site for other offerings in late May, leading up to and over Memorial Day weekend. Use code Sun at checkout. This Memorial Sale is not to be missed if you want to pick up award-winning beauty products. Items like the Bali Babies Set and Travel Hair Set are ready to accompany you on your summer adventures. Markdowns will happen from May 21 to May 27, 2024. Start your own health rituals with a subscription to Ritual this summer season with this sale–25% off vitamins, probiotics, and more (all third-party tested and ingredients with traceability) and bundles of all the goods for to 40% off from May 20-29, 2024. Get your skin summer-ready with up to 30% off select items from May 23-27. Save on clothes, shoes, homegoods, and accessories during JC Penny’s Memorial Day sale, like 50% off Liz Clairborne and 70% off homegoods. This brand claims to be “the world’s most comfortable footwear,” so it may be worth picking up one or two pairs for your summer wardrobe, especially if you are walking into vacation mode. Sign up for its rewards program and take advantage of 3x rewards points on all orders until May 27, 2024. This one-stop shop for fashion, beauty, and more is celebrating this May with up to 50% off from May 21 through May 27, 2024. It’s definitely time to restock your beauty cabinet and your wardrobe for the new season. These classic bags never go out of style. Shop the Coach Memorial Day sale and get up to 30% off selected items from May 23-27, 2024. Hit Coach Outlet over Memorial Day weekend for special savings, too. From May 22 to 29, 2024 - select wallets, bags, and other items will be 20% off. Up to 20% off shoes, clothes, and accessories until 5/19, but then circle back for Memorial Day savings later this month. It’s nearly summer, and Banana Republic Factory wants to help you stay stylish with 50% off its entire site. Take up to 60% off designer clothes, shoes, and accessories for women, men, and children until May 30, 2024. Get patriotic with red, white, and blue tees, summer dresses, bras, and other outfits, and be ready for summer; all clothes are marked down (prices vary widely) during Amazon’s Memorial Day discounts. Take 30% off select styles for men and women, and babies and kids. If you are headed to Cape Cod or a similar vacation spot, these classic duds are especially for you. Frame is offering an extra 30% off already marked-down sale items from May 22 to 27, so you can save on denim (and other items) for men and women. Take up to 40% off panties, bras, activewear, swimwear, and more during Bare Necessities' big Memorial Day sale. This is a great time to stock up on summer sleepwear and swimsuits, too. During this Memorial Day sale, accessories and pet essentials can be purchased for up to 40% off. And it’s not just dog beds that are marked down; you can buy a chicken run for less than $160 for your feathered friends on sale, too. Your pets should enjoy Memorial Day, too. Now, everything you need and want for your favorite fur baby, from toys to tech, is on sale at Chewy. Prices vary per product. Protect your furniture from your pets with Sure Fit’s machine-washable Pet Furniture Covers so that your beloved furry friend can relax on your sofa and so can you. Samsonite is holding a “season of discovery” sale before Memorial Day. Prices on sets and single carriers are up to 50% off. Take 20% off select REI Experiences. These hiking and luxury camping adventures are curated by REI and based on activity levels from “easy active” to “vigorous” to help you choose. Visit Expedia to find travel packages at lower prices when you shop the site’s Memorial Day Weekend getaways, where you can save up to $580 when you book your flight and stay at the same time. The entire site is 20% off (use code MDW24), so if you have been longing for some new carry on luggage or need a better beach bag for you or your kids, now is the time to shop State. Enjoy up to 40% off nursery and kids' furniture and plan on a summer room rehab for less. Beds, bookshelves, gliders, bunks, and more are all marked down. The Memorial Day Sale at Pottery Barn Kids is a great opportunity to save on kid and baby accessories, furniture, and more. This holiday weekend brings up to 60% off. Get a jump start on packing for summer camp (or even the fall) with 50% markdowns on backpacks and lunchboxe and bedding, also half price. Up to 60% off is not just for kids in May; PB Teen is also offering markdowns on nearly everything on the site, including teen-favorite loungers for gaming, relaxing, and enjoying “no school” summertime. Up to 40% off hundreds (if not more)of kids' items, from outdoor splashpads to sprinklers. Run, skip, or hop to this sale of up to 40% off of (nearly) everything new parents or caregivers might want for a newborn, baby, or toddler. Take up to 70% off the cutest clothes, accessories, and more for your babies and younger children during Maisonette’s Memorial Day Sale.  We love the summertime prints, like mini sharks, flowers, rainbows, and red-white-and-blue shirts, pajamas, dresses, and slides for the littles. Like 2023, this year’s Memorial Day sales typically encompass savings on mattresses and furniture, including outdoor patio sets, at Home Depot, Lowes, and other big box shops. Clothing and accessories for summer, plus sale-on-sale items, usually happen over Memorial Day weekend, from home furnishing to fashion. You can usually find great deals on lawn care products, including mowers, pop-up pools, and other grills. Sale hunters and home renovation lovers also know they can score big on appliances, too, during the month of May leading up to the weekend. Check your favorite store's websites and sign up for Google alerts to hear first-hand news when retailers announce their sales online. Of course, television and print ads may be old-school, but they are still around. Shopping influences, social media sites, and your favorite bloggers will likely share information as well. Plus, it is always worth visiting your favorite retailer‘s website about a week or two before Memorial weekend to check out where you might pick up a good deal. The information presented here is created by TIME Stamped and overseen by TIME editorial staff. To learn more, see our About Us page.