The BBC has denied reports amid concerns that the show has been axed. While fans of BBC car show, Top Gear, have been without it on our screens for some time now, the BBC has denied reports that the long-running series has been cancelled. On Friday 6th October, The Sun reported that production staff on the show had been told to focus on other work and that there was "no way" that the show could continue after presenter Freddie Flintoff's serious car crash last year. Well, the BBC has since released a statement on the claims, saying: "A decision on the timing of future Top Gear shows will be made in due course with BBC Content." The BBC's statement also comes after a previous report by The Mail on Sunday claimed that the production team behind the series has been "quietly dismantled". Sign up to receive the latest and greatest from the world of entertainment By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. RadioTimes.com understands that a health and safety review of the show is still ongoing, with a decision on the timing of any future Top Gear instalments to follow in due course. Flintoff's accident last December saw the cricket star and Top Gear presenter rushed to hospital via air ambulance after being involved in a high speed crash during filming at the Dunsfold Aerodrome in Surrey. Flintoff was since seen in public for the first time since the crash last month attending the one-day cricket international between England and New Zealand at Sophia Gardens in Cardiff. There, he awarded an England cap to the spin bowler Tom Hartley and told him that the England Cricket team “would share the good times with you, the successes. But as I found over the past few months, they’ll be there in the hardest times of your life, they will stand next to you”. The sportsman was previously part of a presenting line-up that consisted of comedian Paddy McGuinness and motoring expert Chris Harris, with speculation surrounding whether or not the pair will return to the show if it does get the green light. The BBC stated in April 2023 that it would be "inappropriate to resume making series 34 of Top Gear at this time" following an internal investigation into the accident. Previously speaking at a Broadcasting Press Guild event, chief content officer of the BBC, Charlotte Moore, was asked whether Top Gear would be returning, to which she responded: "My priority at the moment is supporting Freddie through his recovery so I think it would be really inappropriate for us to resume filming now. "I think when we get to the point where he feels ready… and we’ll get to thinking about getting him back." Read more:  She added: "I think we've got to talk about what Freddie wants to do. When someone's in recovery, I don't think we would push that... I think that would be really inappropriate, I wouldn't be happy. I think you've got to be really human about this and do the right thing." This isn't the first time that Top Gear has experienced a significant crash involving one of its presenters. In 2006, Richard Hammond spent two weeks in a coma at the Elvington airfield in York while travelling at 288mph. All previous seasons of Top Gear are available to stream on BBC iPlayer. Looking for something else to watch in the meantime? Check out our TV Guide or visit our dedicated Entertainment hub. Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home – subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to The Radio Times Podcast. Try 10 issues for just £10! Sign up to our reader offer newsletters and be entered into a monthly prize draw. August's prize is a Roberts Play 11 radio. Don't lose out on up to 30% more pension income* Calculate how much more income you could get instantly by using our online annuity calculator. Sign up to receive our newsletter! By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.