Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. Our overall winner is so good, we think it deserves a trophy The Spruce / Brian Kopinski Footballs, baseball bats, golf clubs, and yoga mats can easily become unorganized when you go to grab one thing from your ever-growing sports collection. Reach for that dusty tennis racket and everything else can come toppling down into one big mess! We know all too well that sports equipment can sometimes include some of the trickiest items to organize in the garage or closet, thanks to so many differently sized and awkwardly shaped pieces (hello bowling ball and volleyball net!). So, what’s the best way to organize all of that equipment? “Good organization and the proper equipment storage goes a long way in creating a space that feels inspiring but also functions well,” advises pro organizer Ashley La Fond, who runs Of Space + Mind. “Sports equipment also tends to be bulky, so it can take up a lot of space if not stored properly,” she adds. Even if you’re lucky and have tons of basement or garage space, properly storing and organizing your sports gear can make a noticeable difference. La Fond says the smartest solutions lie in keeping items together and organizing by shelves, baskets, and cubbies. That’s why we researched dozens of sports equipment storage, including both wall-mounted and freestanding, to find the best options for every space. So, grab your tube of tennis balls, assorted weights, and yes, that badminton set, too, and get ready to organize! Mythinglogic Garage Storage System Best Overall  Buy at Amazon.com   Buy at Mythinglogic.com  Boasts a lot of storage space for its size Designed for a variety of equipment Easy to assemble Accessible built-in shelves and baskets Not as heavy-duty as others When it comes right down to it, we crowned the Mythinglogic Garage Storage System as our overall best sports equipment storage. First off, the price point is excellent, considering its size, quality, how much it holds, and its versatility. The 42.71-inch tall and 36.05-inch wide features ball racks, baskets, hooks, hangers, and more for storing baseballs, bats, clubs, and rackets. You can even hang a skateboard and helmet, yoga mat and blocks, and place kettlebells and dumbbells, making it the most functional and versatile organizer on our list. On top of all of that, the storage unit is incredibly easy to assemble, features wheels on the legs so you can move it around as needed, and has lots of good design features—such as baskets and shelves—that make equipment easily accessible. While it’s not the most heavy-duty option on our list, it’s still durable enough to hold quite a collection and is made with excellent quality. Price at time of publish: $120 Dimensions: 36.05 x 16.54 x 42.71 inches | Material: Steel | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Container Store Heavy-Duty Wall Storage Best Budget  Buy at Containerstore.com  Spacious Mounting hardware included Sleek, pegboard-like design Plenty of storage perks, such as moveable hooks Lightweight, flimsy construction It’s no secret that storage solutions can cost a pretty penny, but that doesn’t mean you can’t find good ones at a more budget-friendly price. After researching dozens of options, we landed on The Container Store’s Heavy-Duty Wall Storage as our best budget pick. Inspired by a pegboard, this 32.5-inch wide and 31-inch tall wall-mounted storage unit works as a grid and comes with ball racks, hooks, and a basket for different sporting goods, such as a soccer ball, baseball bat, and a fitness jump rope. While it’ll definitely sort out your gear, its lightweight construction can make it feel flimsy—especially when compared to other sturdier options on our list. This organizer is a good choice for just a few items you want out on display, but it can’t be weighed down with your whole year-round sports collection. Still, we think its space-saving design is super functional and the sales price can’t be beat. Price at time of publish: $20 Dimensions: 32.5 x 1 x 31 inches | Material: Steel | Mount Type: Wall | Assembly Required: Yes Systembuild Evolution Flex Sports Storage Cabinet with Ball Basket and Tall Equipment Storage Best Freestanding  Buy at Realrooms.com  Durable storage cabinet Stylish and sleek design Built-in organizational features that are functional Elongated bin Pricey Can only hold 30 pounds Our top pick for best freestanding sports equipment storage cabinet is the Real Rooms Flex Sports Storage Cabinet with Ball Basket and Tall Equipment Storage. This wood cabinet, which comes in both white and black, has a built-in feel that is stylish and sleek, helping it to blend well with any home decor. In addition to its good looks, we love it for its durability and built-in organization—such as a ball basket, tall cubby for extra long equipment, and shelves for cleats and sneakers—which make sporting goods storage a breeze. We also think the extra protection of the metal rail guards are a nice touch, so you won’t have to worry about a ball accidentally rolling out, if the storage should get bumped. And if you have the space (and the funds!), we think it'd be smart to buy two and place them side-by-side for even more storage options, especially if your family has more than one athlete. While it's one of the pricier options on our list, we think it’s totally worth the amount, considering how well-made it is, how many different types of sporting equipment it holds, and how good it looks inside the house and out in the garage. Price at time of publish: $250 Dimensions: 15.39 x 76.65 x 35.67 inches | Material: Engineered wood | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Arlmont & Co. Adrionna Freestanding Sports Rack Best Portable  Buy at Wayfair.com  Rolls nicely from room to room Versatile Sturdy frame Easily accessible Requires tedious assembly Sports equipment can get heavy, especially once you add actual workout weights to it. For a storage solution on wheels, consider the Arlmont & Co Adrionna Freestanding Sports Rack, which is constructed from a durable steel material and measures 34.3 inches tall, 40.4 inches wide, and 15.7 inches deep. Available in white and black, the moveable sports rack can fit a variety of sporting goods with specific slots and hooks for holding weights, foam rollers, mats, and balls. We love this option because it works well for classic sporting items like bats, clubs, and balls, but also keeps at-home gym items, like yoga blocks and mats, organized, too. The assembly is a bit tedious, especially for those who don’t have as much experience putting furniture together. But we promise it’s worth a little frustration. Once it’s fully assembled, it’s so useful and versatile—and you can tote it wherever you need to exercise, including in the garage or in the house while you watch TV. Price at time of publish: $140 Dimensions: 34.3 x 40.4 x 15.7 inches | Material: Steel | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Honey-Can-Do Hanging Organizer Best for Small Spaces  Buy at Homedepot.com   Buy at Honeycando.com  Hangs on the back of the door Space-saving Roomy storage No assembly required Basic design If you’re working with a smaller space, it can be hard to sort out a sports equipment storage that holds a lot and feels functional. Enter: The Honey-Can-Do Hanging Sports Equipment Organizer. This over-the-door storage solution is constructed from heavy-duty and durable polyester material with mesh paneling so you can see what’s inside. Ideal for holding a collection of equipment like balls, bats, rackets, and clubs, the small space storage doesn’t require mounting or assembly as it easily hooks over most doors. It’s not the most stylish-looking, which could be a deal-breaker for some (especially if it’s noticeable in your space). But for the affordable price, you can't beat the functionality. Price at time of publish: $20 Dimensions: 12 x 16 x 43 inches | Material: Polyester, mesh | Mount Type: Over the door | Assembly Required: No WFX Utility Soderberg Sport Bundle Wall Panel Kit Best Wall-Mounted  Buy at Wayfair.com  Sleek and stylish design Versatile Roomy Good for bikes and fishing rods Might be too big The WFX Utility Soderberg Sport Bundle Wall Panel Kit is our top pick for best wall-mounted. Not only is it super sturdy and functional, but it also looks nice, making it a good choice for both indoor and garage use. Measuring at 48 inches tall and 96 inches wide, the pegboard-inspired wall storage can hold a variety of sports equipment items, including large items like a bicycle as well as skateboards, snowboards, yoga mats, tennis rackets, golf clubs, and more. Albeit a bit on the large side, this is a fantastic choice for someone looking to store a lot of outdoor equipment—with excellent durability and a sleek design. Price at time of publish: $310 Dimensions: 48 x 96 x 9 inches | Material: Plastic | Mount Type: Wall mounted | Assembly Required: Yes Plkow Yoga Mat Storage Rack Best for Home Gym  Buy at Amazon.com  Designed to fit in a corner Built-in hooks On wheels Durable Specifically suited for at-home workout gear If your sports equipment is at-home gym items such as yoga mats, foam rollers, kettlebells, dumbbells, and resistance bands, the best sports equipment storage for you is the PLKOW Home Gym Storage Rack. This freestanding rack is one of our top picks because we love its space-saving design, which is made to fit snugly into a corner, but can easily be moved around as needed thanks to the 360-degree rolling wheels (which also lock in place, so you don’t have to worry about it taking off during a workout). And, although it’s only 25 inches tall, 28 inches long, and 20.4 inches wide, the storage unit holds a lot and utilizes the full size of the rack with the addition of functional hooks for items like resistance bands, pilates rings, and jump ropes. In addition to its size and storage capacity, the rolling rack is also incredibly durable and can easily hold a few different kettlebells as well as several dumbbells for conditioning and training workouts. Although it is best suited for gym gear, we think its corner design makes it incredibly versatile and functional for all types of equipment. Price at time of publish: $90 Dimensions: 28 x 20.4 x 25 inches  | Material: Steel | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Latitude Run Foldable Rolling Metal Storage Shelf Best Collapsible  Buy at Wayfair.com  Good for temporary solutions Easy to assemble Ultra-sturdy and roomy Flexible and universal storage unit Has wheels for movability No organizational extras, such as hooks or bins For a sports equipment storage solution that’s a little less permanent, consider something with a collapsible design, like the Latitude Run Foldable Rolling Metal Storage Shelf. Albeit not designed for sporting equipment specifically, this is an excellent organization solution because it’s constructed from durable steel material, meaning it can hold heavy equipment and be used for a variety of uses, not just sporting goods. We like that the collapsible storage unit is also easy to fold up and features solid shelf space, which can be used to position baskets, small dumbbell racks, and other organizational tools that can make it even more functional for sports. This is a great unit for seasonal storage, say, during busy softball season when your daughter’s sporting gear needs to be out and on hand, ready to go after school. Price at time of publish: $100 Dimensions: 33.85 x 27' x 13.77 inches | Material: Steel | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Text Link:The 9 Best Laundry Detergents for Workout Clothes Hommoo Metal Locker Cabinet with Magnetic Door Best Metal  Buy at Amazon.com  Cabinet design, so it hides the clutter Retro locker vibes in a neutral color Use just one or multiples for additional storage No added compartments for gear specifically Many sports equipment storage units are constructed from metal, but if you want something that has a more industrial feel, this varsity-inspired metal locker from Hommoo is an excellent choice. The cabinet is 50.79 inches tall and 14.96 inches wide and features a shelf depth of 18.11 inches, giving you plenty of room to stow away mats, weights, and foam rollers. The shelves even have enough space to add a ball basket and the cabinet comes with a built-in rod so you can hang your athleisure wear with your equipment, too. We also love this cabinet because it’s a stylish solution for not only organizing, but also hiding sports equipment. The cabinets can close shut and keep the collection of goods out of sight. Its retro locker design also adds a nice decor touch, so it would look nice inside the home as well as in a garage. Add to a row of lockers for a whole new look. The only downside is that this cabinet is made for a variety of uses, which means it doesn’t have the specific storage options—such as a ball basket or slots for yoga mats—as the other options on our list. Price at time of publish: $160 Dimensions: 18.11 x 14.96 x 50.79 inches | Material: Alloy steel | Mount Type: Freestanding | Assembly Required: Yes Read Next:The 14 Best Garage Storage Systems of 2023 The Mythinglogic Garage Storage System is our top winner because it boasts an excellent price point and is super functional. The storage rack features plenty of baskets, shelves, racks, and hooks to hold a variety of sporting items, including balls, rackets, hockey sticks, and bats, as well as at-home gym items like yoga mats, weights, and resistance bands. For a more budget-friendly option, consider The Container Store Heavy-Duty Wall Storage, which is a good space-saving solution and can hold plenty of equipment despite its smaller size. The pegboard-inspired wall-mounted storage solution features hooks, ball racks, and a basket, adding thoughtful intention to its overall design. When shopping for sports equipment storage, size and material are the first two things to consider. According to Marie Jackson, a professional organizer, it’s important to consider the location you plan to place the organizer in to ensure that it will fit. “Get the dimensions of the organizer you want to use, then grab some painters tape and lay it out to get an idea of how much space it’ll take up,” she explains. Material is also important because this will not only impact the way the storage solution looks—which can matter when incorporating it into your home decor—but how durable the solution is. For the most part, metal is one of the best materials for storing heavy-duty equipment. However, some plastic options (like the WFX Utility Soderberg Sport Bundle Wall Panel Kit) can hold a lot of weight. Before purchasing a sports equipment storage solution, make sure to review the assembly requirements and installation, as some storage units—especially built-in styles—can require a lot of work and some furniture building experience. For the most part, storage racks and even cabinets can easily be put together, though some might require two people to assemble for safety reasons, so having an idea of that in advance will make the process a lot smoother once you receive the unit. If you’re going with a wall-mounted storage option, it’s extra important to consider installation, since some spaces might require additional steps like anchors for added durability. “Durability matters big time when storing sports equipment, especially if you’re storing weights,” says Jackson. She notes that you want to ensure the storage solution can hold the weight of your equipment, even if you aren’t loading it with dumbbells and kettlebells, so that it doesn’t bend or break. This is both a quality and functional concern but it’s also a safety concern, as heavy items—such as weights—could fall and land on your foot or toe when putting them away. When considering the durability of an item, it helps to look at the materials used, as certain options like metal can be more durable than others. You also want to consider the weight capacity, which is often listed in the product descriptions, as well as the reviews to see how the storage solutions held up for other customers. According to La Fond, the organization option you choose depends on what you’re storing and the space you have. She recommends getting things off the floor and onto racks or on vertical systems to optimize your space. “Wall mounted hooks, shelves, and even track systems allow you to hang even the bulkiest equipment like bikes,” she explains. If you’re concerned about hanging heavy equipment on your wall or having to drill into studs, she also recommends freestanding storage racks and shelving units which work well for sporting goods, giving you sturdy storage for bins, gear, and equipment. Freestanding storage racks often come with wheels, too, which make them easier to move around as needed, which is especially helpful for at-home exercise. In addition to the storage units, La Fond says to consider additional organization options, like bins and hooks, which can easily be added to cabinets, racks, and wall-mounted boards. This will allow you to get the most out of your storage solution and maximize the space you have. How should you best organize your sports equipment? “How you organize your sports equipment depends entirely on the space you are using,” says Lauren Saltman, a professional organizer and owner of Living. Simplified. Sports equipment storage can vary and cabinets, racks, and wall-mounted solutions are some of the most popular options out there. No matter which option you choose and what your storage limitations are, Saltman says it’s most important to keep similar items together. “One bin can hold your bands, another can hold towels, and another can hold water bottles,” she explains. The great thing about this organizing method is that most storage solutions make this super easy with shelves, racks, baskets, and hooks that can house everything from balls to bats to rackets to even home gym items like yoga mats, foam rollers, and weights together in one place. How big should your sports storage equipment be? According to Saltman, the amount of space you dedicate to your sports equipment entirely depends on the amount of equipment you have, which can then inform how big your storage is. If you’re storing at-home gym equipment like a yoga mat and dumbbells weights, she recommends going with a small rolling cart that you can move from room to room in your home. If space is a concern, choosing a vertical option can help get items off the ground while remaining well-organized and intentional. You can also choose an over-the-door storage solution (such as our top pick for space-saving, the Honey-Can-Do Hanging Sports Equipment Organizer), which is the ultimate hack for keeping items organized without committing too much space to storage. Where can you put your sports equipment organizer? When deciding where to place your sports equipment organizer, Jackson says to keep it in an area where you workout (if storing at-home gym equipment) or where you’ll likely see it on your way out to play sports, such as a garage or mudroom. “You can also use a rolling cart and keep it stored in a closet if you prefer to not look at it and take it out when needed,” she adds, noting that this recommendation isn’t the best if you’re an “out of sight, out of mind” person. While a hidden cart won't allow you to get inspired by seeing your equipment, it can work really well for staying organized and not taking over your home decor. Contributing writer Jessie Quinn covers everything from organizing solutions to home essentials for The Spruce. When researching the best sports equipment storage, Quinn considered everything from size and material to assembly requirements to durability (after all, sports equipment can be heavy!) to organizer type to determine which storage options are best for a variety of needs. She also considered price, budget, and versatility to determine value and whether or not the storage solutions are worth the investment. In addition to these key factors, Quinn also connected with sporting equipment and organization specialists Marie Jackson, Lauren Saltman, and Ashley La Fond for their expert insights on what to look for in sports equipment storage and what makes an organization unit the best. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.