Actress Alice Evans could be facing an arrest after she failed to turn up to a court hearing relating to two breaches of her restraining order put in place against her by estranged husband, Ioan Gruffudd Alice Evans is reportedly facing arrest after she failed to show up to court to answer two charges of violating her soon-to-be ex-husband's, Ioan Gruffudd 's, restraining order against her.  The bitter divorce battle between the former couple has taken a turn for the worst when Alice, 54, failed to turn up to the Airport Courthouse in LA for her scheduled court hearing on Thursday. Welsh actor Ioan's estranged wife also failed to contact the court to explain her absence, as did her attorney. After two and a half hours of her being a no-show in court, LA Superior Court Commissioner James Cooper issued a referral for an arrest warrant for the actress. A referral was reportedly sent to a judge to issue the arrest warrant for the 10 Things I Hate About You actress.  Once the warrant is signed by a judge, Alice can be arrested, but she could avoid going into custody by posting bail until the next hearing is scheduled, LA Superior Court Commissioner Cooper told Mail Online.  Liar star Ioan, 49, filed a restraining order against Alice in February 2022, but the details of the two breaches are still unknown. The Welsh actor filed for divorce from Alice back in March 2021. It came just two months after she sensationally took to social media to claim that her husband had 'walked out' on her and their two daughters, Ella, now 13 and Elsie, 9, after fourteen blissful years of marriage. At the time, Alice also accused her husband of having an affair with his now girlfriend, Bianca Wallace, behind her back - claim which Ioan has continued to deny. For several months after their split, Alice continued to blast her estranged husband on social media, with him ultimately requesting a restraining order against her in a bid to prevent Alice from sharing their private messages or publishing 'false public allegations' about him to the world. Ioan's restraining order request was granted in February 2022, and it Alice banned from even mentioning his name on social media for three years. In his filing, the Welsh actor also reiterated allegations that his estranged wife had 'verbally abused' him during their marriage of fourteen years, and had undermined him in front of their daughters 'throughout their lives'. "Alice made fun of my appearance often, making hair-loss comments and telling me I had 'saggy-vagina eyes,'" court papers read. After the Liar actor was granted the restraining order, Alice has continued to risk violating it by taking to social media to post about their bitter separation. Lifting the lid on the restraining order, a source previously told Mail Online: "Ioan had no choice but to up his legal fight over Alice. "She had become increasingly volatile and seemingly intent on destroying his career with her character assassination. He hopes this will put an end to it." It comes after Ioan spoke out for the first time about their very public and sour split this week. The Welsh actor, 49, and fellow actress Alice, 54, first met on the set of 102 Dalmatians in 2000 and they married seven years later in Mexico. The Hornblower star admitted that being in the public eye from a young age has helped deal with the scrutiny of his bitter divorce, which he accepts is 'part and parcel' of being an actor.  Ioan said in an interview with Radio Times magazine: "It’s experience of having lived in the public eye from an early age. I was in the Welsh language soap opera Pobol y Cwm from the age of 11, so people knew who I was in that community.  "You can’t train for that scrutiny as an actor, but it’s been part and parcel of what it is to be an actor. It’s a contract." Ioan filed for joint custody in July last year whilst asking for visitation rights to see his two daughters, but the former couple failed to reach an agreement despite the help of a mediator. The actor is currently in a relationship with actress Bianca Wallace. The Mirror has reached out to Alice Evans' representatives for comment. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox