
				Moumou-tei is a new Japanese grilled meat restaurant a short distance from Yokota Air Base in western Tokyo. (Juan King/Stars and Stripes)
			 A new yakiniku restaurant — a popular dining choice in Japan in which diners grill their own meat — opened recently near Yokota Air Base in western Tokyo. Moumou-tei in Fussa, the city outside Yokota’s main gate, opened in December. My family and I, including a friend, tried dinner there in mid-March after it had garnered great reviews. A sophisticated doorway, sign and menu on a stand invite patrons into a cozy, two-floor setup with private booths and tables. Counter seating with room for four is available on the first floor; the main dining area is on the second floor. The booths there, with high walls for privacy, provide a nice touch of the comfort you experience at home. One small, private room was also available.  I needed Google to translate the Japanese menu, which was not an issue. The servers spoke little English, but they were able to get everything right for us and provided a great dining experience during our visit. The menu choices are plentiful and include cuts of beef, pork, chicken and seafood. Moumou-tei serves Hida beef, a variety of Wagyu that comes from a black-haired cattle breed out of Gifu prefecture, southwest of Tokyo. The distinctive fat marbling sets it apart from other types of Wagyu, according to the restaurant’s website. We chose several plates of meat, including kalbi, a Hida beef steak and a tasty bowl of Hida beef minced rice.  Ramen was another choice, and our friend sampled the spicy miso. 
				Moumou-tei is a new Japanese grilled meat restaurant a short distance from Yokota Air Base in western Tokyo. (Juan King)
			 
				Moumou-tei is a new Japanese grilled meat restaurant a short distance from Yokota Air Base in western Tokyo. (Juan King)
			 Grilling is always fun, especially when you can do it at your own table in a restaurant. You have complete control over how you want the meat cooked. All samples of meat were, according to Japanese standards, soft and very tender. The veggies we ordered supplemented the meat perfectly. There were also a number of beverages to choose from, including assorted soft drinks, juices and alcoholic drinks.   Prices are not cheap, but for a good reason: you get good, high-quality food. Individual selections we chose cost us 3,500 yen, or about $26. We went away paying approximately 24,000 yen, not including beverages.  Moumou-tei has another location in Hamura, the city adjacent to Fussa to the west. Moumou-tei Yakiniku	 Location: 883-1 Miko Building, Fussa, Tokyo, 197-0011 Hours: Open daily. 5 to 11 p.m.; last order is 10 p.m. Prices: Course options cost between 8,000 and 15,000 yen. Dress: Casual Directions: A short drive or 15-minute walk from Yokota Air Base’s main gate. Information: Phone: 042-842-0001; Online: moumou-tei.com/fussa Sign up to receive a daily email of today's top military news stories from Stars and Stripes and top news outlets
      from around the world. 
Sign Up Now 