It's obvious that we're getting close to the launch time for the Google Pixel Tablet as evident by the increasing number of accidental leaks lately. The Google I/O developer conference starts on May 10th, so the timeframe around Google's conference has been the expected launch date for the Google Pixel Tablet for a long time. The newest leak comes from Amazon again, but this time it's Amazon Japan, where the main Google Pixel Tablet in Porcelain color was listed until earlier today for 79,800 Japanese Yen or around $590 USD, as noted by Buzzap. That's iPad Air prices. This was an official listing and although the original page is temporarily down for the next 3-4 days, I can still see that the original text said the release date was set to June 20th in Japan.  So at the moment, it looks like there may be a month between the full unveiling and the actual release. There had been disputes about whether the new Google tablet would have an OLED display or not, but according to the specs sheet, the Google Pixel Tablet has a 10.95-inch LCD screen with 2560 x 1600 resolution, a Tensor G2 processor, 8GB LPDDR5 RAM, 128GB/256GB UFS 3.1 storage options, 8MP front and rear cameras, quad speakers, and triple mics. From before we also know that a central aspect of this tablet is the Google Pixel Tablet Dock. And a USI pen has long since been spotted for it. Google announced this tablet as far back as May last year, but didn't want to reveal much, so we'll really have to wait a few more days to see what kind of plans Google really has with this tablet.  The last tablets from Google before the new Pixel Tablet in 2023, were the Chrome OS tablet Google Pixel Slate which launched in 2018, while the last Android tablet from Google was the Nexus 9, which launched in 2014 when Android 5.0 Lollipop was hot. – Jim Miller Jim's passion for Apple products ignited in 2007 when Steve Jobs introduced the first iPhone. This was a canon event in his life. Noticing a lack of iPad-focused content that is easy to understand even for “tech-noob”, he decided to create Tabletmonkeys in 2011. Jim continues to share his expertise and passion for tablets, helping his audience as much as he can with his motto “One Swipe at a Time!” About Tablet Monkeys Tabletmonkeys is a tablet computer media company focusing solely on tablet computers. iPad & tablet news, tablet leaks, November tablet deals, tablet sales, tablet prices, tablet launches, tablet apps, tablet comparison, 2-in-1 tablets, and tablet accessories, is otherwise the focus of Tabletmonkeys.com. IMP LINKS Free Government Tablet
Free iPhone Government Phone
Upcoming Tablets 2024
Samsung Tablets 2024
Largest Tablets 2024 About Contact © 2024 Tablet Monkeys