Your digital subscription includes access to content from all our websites in your region.
Access unlimited content and the digital versions of our print editions - Today's Paper. Your digital subscription includes access to content from all our websites in your region.
Access unlimited content and the digital versions of our print editions - Today's Paper. WaterNSW has issued a red alert advisory for high levels of potentially toxic blue-green algae in Carcoar Dam. Login or signup to continue reading This red alert warning applies only to untreated water at Carcoar Dam and will remain in place until monitoring and test results confirm that the risk is sufficiently diminished.  People should avoid consuming untreated water from this waterbody and prevent pets and livestock from drinking this water. People should avoid recreational activities such as swimming, water skiing, canoeing and any other activity that brings them into contact with this waterbody until the red alert warning is lifted. Potentially toxic blue-green algae may cause gastroenteritis if consumed, while contact can cause skin and eye irritations.  Consumption of water containing algal toxins may cause liver damage and other health problems. Boiling the water does not remove algal toxins. People who suspect they have been affected by blue-green algae should seek medical advice. People should not eat mussels or crayfish from red alert warning areas. A precautionary approach to eating fin fish from red alert warning areas is advised.  Any fish caught should be cleaned and washed thoroughly in uncontaminated water; the internal organs should not be eaten. Avoiding fishing during a bloom is the best way to minimise risk. Blue-green algae is naturally occurring and can reproduce quickly in still or slow-flowing water when there is abundant sunlight and sufficient nutrients. Visit the local council or local water utility websites for information about the management of blue-green algae risks in the nearby treated drinking water supplies. Updates and information about blue-green algae blooms and red level warning areas can be obtained by visiting - www.waternsw.com.au/algae or Water Insights or calling 1800 999 457. Our journalists work hard to provide local, up-to-date news to the community. This is how you can continue to access our trusted content: Started working in newspapers in the 1990's in the darkroom of the Pastoral Times in Deniliquin before moving to Millthorpe in 2003. Soon after arriving I started as a photographer at the CWD. Now a journalist at the Blayney Chronicle. Started working in newspapers in the 1990's in the darkroom of the Pastoral Times in Deniliquin before moving to Millthorpe in 2003. Soon after arriving I started as a photographer at the CWD. Now a journalist at the Blayney Chronicle. DAILY Today's top stories curated by our news team. Also includes evening update. WEEKLY The latest news, results & expert analysis. WEEKLY Get the editor's insights: what's happening & why it matters. WEEKLY Love footy? We've got all the action covered. WEEKLY Every Sunday explore destinations, deals, tips & travel writing to transport you around Australia and the globe. WEEKLY For regional women by regional women. WEEKLY Going out or staying in? Find out what's on. WEEKDAYS Sharp. Close to the ground. Digging deep. Your weekday morning newsletter on national affairs, politics and more. TWICE WEEKLY Your essential national news digest: all the big issues on Wednesday and great reading every Saturday. WEEKLY Get news, reviews and expert insights every Thursday from CarExpert, ACM's exclusive motoring partner. TWICE WEEKLY Get real, Australia! Let  the ACM network's editors and journalists bring you news and views from all over. AS IT HAPPENS Be the first to know when news breaks. DAILY Your digital replica of Today's Paper. Ready to read from 5am! DAILY Test your skills with interactive crosswords, sudoku & trivia. Fresh daily! Advertisement Advertisement