CHARLOTTE, N.C., Sept.  22, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- LPL Financial today announced that Greg Gates won the Chief Technology Officer of the Year award from WealthManagement.com’s 2023 industry awards program. Managing Director and Chief Technology and Information Officer Gates received the award for his efforts in empowering financial professionals to take care of their clients through technology innovations and advancements. “Greg and his team continue to enhance the digital experience at LPL in order to help our advisors and institution partners provide differentiated service to their clients and run thriving businesses,” said LPL President and CEO Dan Arnold. “We congratulate Greg on this well-deserved recognition and thank him for his many contributions to LPL."  Gates oversees the infrastructures that serve LPL’s nearly 22,000 financial advisors representing over $1 trillion of brokerage and advisory assets. He and his team have evolved LPL’s technology platforms with a keen focus on continually elevating the advisor and investor experience. "I’m grateful to receive this award in recognition of our remarkable team of technologists at LPL,” remarked Gates. "Their unwavering commitment to creating and delivering innovative technology capabilities serves as a key driver in the success of our advisors, institutions and the clients they serve every day.” The ninth-annual Wealthies program honored outstanding achievements by companies, organizations and individuals that support financial advisor success. During this year’s ceremony, 91 awards were presented to 80 companies from a total of 253 finalists.
		  About LPL Financial LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (Nasdaq: LPLA) was founded on the principle that LPL should work for advisors and enterprises, and not the other way around. Today, LPL is a leader in the markets we serve, serving nearly 22,000 financial advisors, including advisors at approximately 1,100 enterprises and at approximately 550 registered investment advisor (RIA) firms nationwide. We are steadfast in our commitment to the advisor-mediated model and the belief that Americans deserve access to personalized guidance from a financial professional. At LPL, independence means that advisors and enterprise leaders have the freedom they deserve to choose the business model, services and technology resources that allow them to run a thriving business. They have the flexibility to do business their way. And they have the freedom to manage their client relationships because they know their clients best. Simply put, we take care of our advisors and enterprises, so they can take care of their clients. Securities and Advisory services offered through LPL Financial LLC ("LPL Financial"), a registered investment advisor. Member FINRA/SIPC. LPL Financial and its affiliated companies provide financial services only from the United States. WealthManagement.com, the “Wealthies” awards program and LPL Financial are separate entities. Throughout this communication, the terms “financial advisors” and “advisors” are used to refer to registered representatives and/or investment advisor representatives affiliated with LPL Financial.
		  We routinely disclose information that may be important to shareholders in the "Investor Relations" or "Press Releases" section of our website. Connect with Us! https://twitter.com/lpl https://www.linkedin.com/company/lpl-financial https://www.facebook.com/LPLFinancialLLC
		  https://www.youtube.com/user/lplfinancialllc Media Contact:Media.relations@LPLFinancial.com(813) 323-1250  Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks