e-Edition Evening Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Evening Edition 
			Top Picks:		 Courtesy of Old Point The original Old Point National Bank was built in 1923 on the corner of Mellen and Mallory streets in the Phoebus section of Hampton. Courtesy photo Old Point National Bank opened its current six-story headquarters and branch in downtown Hampton in 2014. Courtesy photo Old Point National Bank operated from a counter in Cooper's Confectionary in the Phoebus section of Hampton when it first opened for business on Jan. 2, 1923. The original Old Point National Bank was built in 1923 on the corner of Mellen and Mallory streets in the Phoebus section of Hampton. Just like the Hampton lighthouse it was named for, Old Point National Bank has been a steady and trusted resource in all kinds of economic climates throughout its 100 years in business.During the past century, Old Point has survived 17 economic recessions, six major wars and countless hurricanes.While the bank has grown in terms of branches, assets, services, technology, customers and employees, it continues as an established and dependable institution that operates under local management and leadership.As Old Point celebrates its centenary with events and anniversary specials, Inside Business delved into the history of this local community bank that continues to flourish in Hampton Roads.___Early years in PhoebusChartered on Nov. 4, 1922, Old Point National Bank — carrying the name of the Old Point Comfort Lighthouse — was brought to fruition when several Phoebus residents decided there was a need.The bank opened for business on Jan. 2, 1923, from a counter inside Cooper’s Confectionary in Hampton.

Later that year, its first building was erected at the corner of Mellen and Mallory streets in Phoebus. That building was demolished in 1971, and a new building was built at the same spot.By 1978, an addition doubled the size of the main building, illustrating its ongoing growth. It is still used as the company’s operational center.
Old Point National Bank operated from a counter in Cooper’s Confectionary in the Phoebus section of Hampton when it first opened for business on Jan. 2, 1923.___Tallying time by the numbersIn 1933, as the Great Depression gripped the nation, the government temporarily shuttered the banking system in an effort to quell panic. Proudly, Old Point never faltered and was the only bank in Phoebus to cash veterans’ and other government-issued checks.By 1936, the bank had one branch and assets that topped $1 million.Within 28 years, in 1964, the bank grew to two branches and assets that reached $10 million.By 1991, the bank had 14 branches and assets over $250 million. Within another 20 years, it added a 15th branch and doubled assets to $500 million.When the 2007-08 recession led to the closure of nearly 500 U.S. banks between 2008 and 2013, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Old Point successfully weathered the storm, even growing to 21 branches and assets that topped $921 million in 2009.As of 2022, Old Point had 14 branches, assets at $1.4 billion, about 300 employees across the financial corporation, three commercial lending offices and three mortgage offices.___Family-inspired leadershipThe word “family” is deeply entrenched in Old Point National Bank’s history in more ways than one.CEO and President Robert Shuford Jr. said the company puts family first and refers to all employees, customers and stockholders as part of the Old Point family.Shuford took over the role after his father, Robert Shuford Sr., retired in January 2020 after 52 years as the company’s top leader. And Shuford’s maternal grandfather, Taylor Holtzclaw, served in the role back in the 1930s.Shuford said he considers it an honor, privilege and a great responsibility to lead the bank into its 100th year.___Technology transforms an industryIn 1978, Old Point came on board with an updated computerized bookkeeping system within its Phoebus location. Within four years, in 1982, ATMs were installed at branches to mark the start of electronic banking and the dawn of the new age of 24-hour banking.The Visa check card was introduced to customers in 1995. A year later, telephone banking enabled customers to call in for their account information.The bank’s website launched in 1998, and as the year 2000 marked the calendars, online banking was introduced.Shuford recalled his first role as an information technology officer brought on to work out bugs associated with Y2K. He stands enthralled at the change in technology over the years — from huge, massive machines handling financial transactions to a single tap of a button on a handheld device.“We have used that transformation in technology to improve the customer experience and make us even better at maintaining and advising trust-based relationships,” Shuford said.___The later yearsFrom Williamsburg and York County to South Hampton Roads, Old Point National Bank spread its wings throughout the region.Old Point Mortgage was established in 2007 as a joint venture between Old Point National Bank and Tidewater Mortgage and is now fully owned by Old Point National Bank. Other Old Point services include Old Point Wealth Management and Old Point Insurance.In 2010, as Old Point prepared to build its new headquarters on the site of its downtown Hampton branch, an archaeological excavation was commissioned to dig for artifacts unveiling a thousand historical pieces.
Old Point National Bank opened its current six-story headquarters and branch in downtown Hampton in 2014.Its six-story, 54,000-square-foot headquarters at 101 E. Queen St. was designed in an early 20th century-style architecture. It opened in 2014, built around the bank’s preserved original 12-ton polished steel vault door, and showcases a small exhibit in the lobby with historical finds, photos and narratives.In 2020, its first office in the Richmond area opened with a commercial lending office in Chester, and Old Point Mortgage brought on a team in Charlotte, North Carolina.Like all banks throughout the nation, Old Point was tested by the COVID-19 pandemic. It helped numerous small businesses survive and saved roughly 15,000 jobs with 1,500 Paycheck Protection Program loans that totaled close to $150 million.In December, Old Point opened its South Hampton Roads corporate office and rounded out a fantastic year, Shuford said.“We had record loan growth, record loan production, record operating revenues and record net income both at the Old Point National Bank bank level and also at the Old Point Financial Corp. bank holding company level,” he said.___The next 100 yearsShuford anticipates continued growth and an expanded presence for Old Point as the entire Richmond-Hampton Roads or RVA-757 megaregion grows closer.“We will continue to stay on the forefront of providing our customers with the best possible experience, whether that be through the digital realm or in person,” he said.Shuford said with the advent of technology, and possibly because of it, people seek out trust-based relationships.“And we’re going to maintain all of the technology, the digital online experience that people really love, while maintaining a team of trust-based advisers that they can come to and rely on in making some of the most important decisions of their life to help them fulfill all of their hopes and dreams.”Sandra J. Pennecke, 757-652-5836, sandra.pennecke@insidebiz.com During the past century, Old Point has survived 17 economic recessions, six major wars and countless hurricanes. While the bank has grown in terms of branches, assets, services, technology, customers and employees, it continues as an established and dependable institution that operates under local management and leadership. As Old Point celebrates its centenary with events and anniversary specials, Inside Business delved into the history of this local community bank that continues to flourish in Hampton Roads. ___ Early years in Phoebus Chartered on Nov. 4, 1922, Old Point National Bank — carrying the name of the Old Point Comfort Lighthouse — was brought to fruition when several Phoebus residents decided there was a need. The bank opened for business on Jan. 2, 1923, from a counter inside Cooper’s Confectionary in Hampton. Later that year, its first building was erected at the corner of Mellen and Mallory streets in Phoebus. That building was demolished in 1971, and a new building was built at the same spot. By 1978, an addition doubled the size of the main building, illustrating its ongoing growth. It is still used as the company’s operational center. ___ Tallying time by the numbers In 1933, as the Great Depression gripped the nation, the government temporarily shuttered the banking system in an effort to quell panic. Proudly, Old Point never faltered and was the only bank in Phoebus to cash veterans’ and other government-issued checks. By 1936, the bank had one branch and assets that topped $1 million. Within 28 years, in 1964, the bank grew to two branches and assets that reached $10 million. By 1991, the bank had 14 branches and assets over $250 million. Within another 20 years, it added a 15th branch and doubled assets to $500 million. When the 2007-08 recession led to the closure of nearly 500 U.S. banks between 2008 and 2013, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Old Point successfully weathered the storm, even growing to 21 branches and assets that topped $921 million in 2009. As of 2022, Old Point had 14 branches, assets at $1.4 billion, about 300 employees across the financial corporation, three commercial lending offices and three mortgage offices. ___ Family-inspired leadership The word “family” is deeply entrenched in Old Point National Bank’s history in more ways than one. CEO and President Robert Shuford Jr. said the company puts family first and refers to all employees, customers and stockholders as part of the Old Point family. Shuford took over the role after his father, Robert Shuford Sr., retired in January 2020 after 52 years as the company’s top leader. And Shuford’s maternal grandfather, Taylor Holtzclaw, served in the role back in the 1930s. Shuford said he considers it an honor, privilege and a great responsibility to lead the bank into its 100th year. ___ Technology transforms an industry In 1978, Old Point came on board with an updated computerized bookkeeping system within its Phoebus location. Within four years, in 1982, ATMs were installed at branches to mark the start of electronic banking and the dawn of the new age of 24-hour banking. The Visa check card was introduced to customers in 1995. A year later, telephone banking enabled customers to call in for their account information. The bank’s website launched in 1998, and as the year 2000 marked the calendars, online banking was introduced. Shuford recalled his first role as an information technology officer brought on to work out bugs associated with Y2K. He stands enthralled at the change in technology over the years — from huge, massive machines handling financial transactions to a single tap of a button on a handheld device. “We have used that transformation in technology to improve the customer experience and make us even better at maintaining and advising trust-based relationships,” Shuford said. ___ The later years From Williamsburg and York County to South Hampton Roads, Old Point National Bank spread its wings throughout the region. Old Point Mortgage was established in 2007 as a joint venture between Old Point National Bank and Tidewater Mortgage and is now fully owned by Old Point National Bank. Other Old Point services include Old Point Wealth Management and Old Point Insurance. In 2010, as Old Point prepared to build its new headquarters on the site of its downtown Hampton branch, an archaeological excavation was commissioned to dig for artifacts unveiling a thousand historical pieces. Its six-story, 54,000-square-foot headquarters at 101 E. Queen St. was designed in an early 20th century-style architecture. It opened in 2014, built around the bank’s preserved original 12-ton polished steel vault door, and showcases a small exhibit in the lobby with historical finds, photos and narratives. In 2020, its first office in the Richmond area opened with a commercial lending office in Chester, and Old Point Mortgage brought on a team in Charlotte, North Carolina. Like all banks throughout the nation, Old Point was tested by the COVID-19 pandemic. It helped numerous small businesses survive and saved roughly 15,000 jobs with 1,500 Paycheck Protection Program loans that totaled close to $150 million. In December, Old Point opened its South Hampton Roads corporate office and rounded out a fantastic year, Shuford said. “We had record loan growth, record loan production, record operating revenues and record net income both at the Old Point National Bank bank level and also at the Old Point Financial Corp. bank holding company level,” he said. ___ The next 100 years Shuford anticipates continued growth and an expanded presence for Old Point as the entire Richmond-Hampton Roads or RVA-757 megaregion grows closer. “We will continue to stay on the forefront of providing our customers with the best possible experience, whether that be through the digital realm or in person,” he said. Shuford said with the advent of technology, and possibly because of it, people seek out trust-based relationships. “And we’re going to maintain all of the technology, the digital online experience that people really love, while maintaining a team of trust-based advisers that they can come to and rely on in making some of the most important decisions of their life to help them fulfill all of their hopes and dreams.” Sandra J. Pennecke, 757-652-5836, sandra.pennecke@insidebiz.com Copyright © 2024 Daily Press