


Business Upturn - News | Nation | World | External Affairs | Business | Money | Culture | Tech | Sports | Updates | Breaking

       VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA, May 16, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — LOVE Pharma Inc. (“LOVE” and or “the Company”) (CSE:LUV) (FSE: G1Q0)  is pleased to announce that it has changed its name to “Jolt Health Inc.”.  The board of directors of the Company approved the name change, effective May 3, 2023, in accordance with the articles of the Company. Advertisement Subsequent to the Company’s press release of April 5, 2023, management has determined that its best course of action toward creating shareholder value was to expand its wellness business beyond the sexual health segment of that market. With this new name, the Company feels that it will be easier to branch out into other areas of the wellness market with an increased focus on biotechnology, healthcare technology and the potential uses and applications of artificial intelligence. Jolt Health’s CEO and Director, Zachary Stadnyk, stated “We are excited to announce our name change and rebranding to Jolt Health. Our new name better reflects our company’s commitment to developing innovative technologies that have the potential to disrupt the healthcare industry. We are focused on expanding our portfolio of health solutions, including further research into transdermal patch continuous delivery for FDA approved pharmaceutical drugs, such as the previously announced interest in transdermal naltrexone, as well as other potential biotech solutions. Given the pace the world is changing at, we plan to further investigate utilizing AI in our solutions to enhance efficiencies and shareholder value.” The name change is expected to be effective at the start of trading on May 22, 2023, and the Company’s shares will trade under the new symbol JOLT. About Love Pharma Inc. With a focus on the global sexual Health and Wellness markets, Love Pharma Inc. (CSE: LUV) (FSE: G1Q0) was founded in 2020, with a mission to bring to market innovative products that enhance sexual health and wellness while providing an improved quality of life. Love Pharma holds exclusive licenses to produce market, package, sell, and distribute patent-protected therapeutic and pharmaceutical products throughout Europe, the United Kingdom, and North America. For further information, please contact: Investor Relations Telephone: 1 (604) 343-2977 E-mail: investors@love-pharma.com www.love-pharma.com Neither the Canadian Securities Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the Canadian Securities Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. Forward Looking Statements Certain information set forth in this news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial position, business strategy, use of proceeds, corporate vision, proposed acquisitions, partnerships, joint-ventures and strategic alliances and co-operations, budgets, cost and plans and objectives of or involving the Company. Such forward-looking information reflects management’s current beliefs and is based on information currently available to management. Often, but not always, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “plans”, “expects”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “predicts”, “intends”, “targets”, “aims”, “anticipates”, “may” or “believes” or variations (including negative variations) of such words and phrases or may be identified by statements to the effect that certain actions “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “might” or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved.  A number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the actual results or performance to materially differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking information. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the control of the Company including, but not limited to, the impact of general economic conditions, industry conditions, risks relating to epidemics or pandemics such as COVID–19, including the impact of COVID–19 on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, lack of investor demand for Bitcoin and/or Bitcoin futures exchange traded funds, and dependence upon regulatory approvals. Readers are cautioned that the assumptions used in the preparation of such information, although considered reasonable at the time of preparation, may prove to be imprecise and, as such, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements. The Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by securities laws.  Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with GlobeNewswire. Business Upturn takes no editorial responsibility for the same. GlobeNewswire provides press release distribution services globally, with substantial operations in North America and Europe.  

Mibro chooses HERE Technologies to enhance tracking and safety features in…			

  

Nokia and HOMEPLUS bring 25G PON services to Taiwan			

  

Automotive HUD Market to Grow at CAGR of 12.2% through 2033 – Wide Expansion…			

  

California mustn’t lose its chance to address its teacher shortage and diversity…			

 

What's happening					
  
Could Anthony Brown supplant Mitch Trubisky as…		
  
New TVS Jupiter teased ahead of India launch on August 22;…		
  
Odell Beckham Jr. injury update: Here’s all that we…		
  
What we know about Austin Riley’s latest injury		
  
Kia Carnival returns to India on October 3; Here’s…		
  
NYT Connections: hints and answers for Tuesday, August 20		
  
Yuvraj Singh Biopic Announced: Details about the film on the…		
  
NYT Mini Crossword today: puzzle answers for Monday, August…		
  
NYT Crossword: answers for Monday, August 19		
  
10 games to play if you like Wordle!		
