Who’d have thought anyone would use Bing in 2023? By choice! Bing has crossed 100 million daily active users a month after the launch of its chatbot AI, according to Yusuf Mehdi, Microsoft's VP for Modern Life, Search and Devices. He said the company is fully aware it's still just "a small, low, single-digit share player," but hey, there was a time when Bing wasn't even a part of the conversation. Around a third of Bing's daily preview users have been using its chat AI for their queries. On average, Microsoft is seeing three chats per session, with over 45 million chats since it introduced the new Bing. Microsoft took advantage of packaging advanced chatbot AI into its search engine, but dominant player Google is rushing to catch up: It introduced its own chat AI, Bard, last month. And as you’ll see from today’s newsletter, it’s been a busy 24 hours for OpenAI and chatbots. – Mat Smith The Morning After isn’t just a newsletter – it’s also a daily podcast. Get our daily audio briefings, Monday through Friday, by subscribing right here. The best mirrorless cameras for 2023 Netflix now lets you customize subtitles on your TV  ‘Star Trek: Picard’ offers some moments of quality  The AI Seinfeld show 'Nothing, Forever' is back on Twitch  Raspberry Pi is offering a 1.6-megapixel global shutter camera module, providing a platform for machine vision, hobbyist shooting and more. Global shutter sensors with no skew or distortion have been promised as the future of cameras for years now, but so far only a handful of products have appeared. Like other global shutter sensors, the new Raspberry Pi sensor pairs each pixel with an analog storage element, so light signals can be captured and stored by all pixels simultaneously. The Global Shutter Camera is now available to purchase for $50. Continue reading.  Grammarly is also getting into generative AI, with GrammarlyGo. Its auto-composition features help the proofreading software keep up with companies adding the ChatGPT API (or different generative AI backends) to their products. The feature can use context like voice, style, purpose and where you’re writing to determine its approach. So it can spit out email replies, shorten passages, rewrite them for tone and clarity, riff or choose from one-click prompts. The company says it will soon add the AI writing feature to its Premium, Business, Education and Developer plans – and free plans “in select markets.” The GrammarlyGo beta will begin rolling out in April. Continue reading. Discord is partnering with OpenAI to integrate ChatGPT. There’s a chatbot, obviously, but the company also plans to use machine learning in a handful of more novel and potentially useful ways. Starting next week, a public experiment will augment Clyde, the built-in bot Discord employs to notify users of errors and respond to their commands with conversational capabilities. The most interesting feature uses OpenAI tech to offer conversation summaries. When it arrives in a few servers next week, the feature will create an overview of chats you may have missed while away. Continue reading. Earlier this year, Roku announced its own TVs; now you can pick one up at Best Buy. Roku Select sets range from 24 to 75 inches, and Roku Plus televisions come in 55-, 65-, and 75-inch sizes, all powered by its streaming platform. The Select TVs will start at $149 (with a potential drop to $120 this summer), and the Plus models below $500 – similar to TCL and other partners. You’ll probably be more interested in the Roku Plus series, which has QLED panels, local backlight dimming for better contrast, 4K Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos-approved speakers. Continue reading. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Apple Podcasts on the web now allows you to do a whole lot more than just listen. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.