LAKELAND, FL — While last week's arrival of El Niño is likely to suppress the development of hurricanes in the Atlantic basin, climatologists say it could increase toxic blue-green algae on Florida's lakes, reservoirs and rivers.  In its monthly outlook, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Climate Prediction Center confirmed the presence of El Niño, a natural climate phenomenon marked by warmer-than-average sea surface temperatures in the central and eastern Pacific Ocean near the equator. However, the global weather pattern's impacts on the climate extends beyond the Pacific, said NOAA climatologists.  El Niño occurs when the waters of the Pacific Ocean warm up and trade winds weaken, bringing hotter, drier weather to the Pacific Northwest and northern Great Plains, and cooler, rainier weather to the southern U.S. It can result in a more active Pacific typhoon season and a milder hurricane season in the Atlantic. "Depending on its strength, El Niño can cause a range of impacts, such as increasing the risk of heavy rainfall and droughts in certain locations around the world," said Michelle L'Heureux, climate scientist at the Climate Prediction Center.  Related: Tampa Tests Non-Invasive Ultrasonic Technology to Reduce Toxic Algae "Climate change can exacerbate or mitigate certain impacts related to El Niño," said L'Heureuz. "For example, El Niño could lead to new records for temperatures, particularly in areas that already experience above-average temperatures during El Niño.”  Forecasters expect El Niño to persist through the summer and into fall, coinciding with peak toxic algae season in Florida, especially toxic cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, which thrives in warmer weather and can multiply rapidly when excess nutrients and pollutants are present.  These toxins can sicken people and pets and contaminate seafood and drinking water supplies. To clean up and prevent the formation of blue-green algae, Gov. Ron DeSantis has awarded more than $13.6 million for 10 innovative technologies and short-term solutions throughout the state. When he took office, DeSantis created the Blue-Green Algae Task Force to address the issue of recurring algal blooms in state waters. The task force recommended investing in innovative technologies to detect, prevent, clean up and mitigate harmful algal blooms in a cost-effective, environmentally safe way. “In addition to our record investment in water quality projects to reduce nutrient loading at its source, my administration has secured dedicated funding to deploy innovative technologies to address algal blooms,” said DeSantis. “These projects will help identify new ways to treat, predict and respond to blue-green algal blooms, protecting our environment and our economy.” The Innovative Technology Grant Program is administered by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.  “We all look forward to a future when harmful algal bloom events are less frequent and have a diminishing impact on our communities,” said DEP Secretary Shawn Hamilton. “To achieve this goal, we know we must continue our investments in long-term water quality projects along with continued research and development of science-based mitigation and control technologies. With the continued support of Gov. DeSantis and our lawmakers, I am confident that we will rise to this important challenge.” The state has appropriated $50 million in the last four years specifically for innovative technologies to combat and clean up harmful algal blooms and combat red tide. DeSantis also dedicated $1.6 billion to water restoration projects, including eliminating ways to prevent excess nutrients entering the state's waterways. Last month, DeSantis signed House Bill 1379 to further protect Florida waterways. HB 1379 enhances protections for the Indian River Lagoon, expands the existing wastewater grant program, strengthens Basin Management Action Plans (BMAPs), improves local government long-term comprehensive planning, and creates dedicated funding for the state’s land conservation efforts.  “In Florida, our natural resources are the foundation of our way of life and a large driver of the economy," said DeSantis. "With this legislation, we are building on the progress we have made in water quality protection and land conservation, ensuring that we leave Florida better to God than we found it for future generations.” “With the signing of House Bill 1379, Gov. DeSantis is both renewing and expanding upon his commitment to protecting and restoring our water quality statewide, with a much-needed focus on some of our most at-risk waters in the Everglades and the Indian River Lagoon,” said Florida hief Science Officer Dr. Mark Rains. “This legislation directs strategic action to address nutrient sources and expedite restoration.” Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.