Jordan Love had an impressive training camp and seems ready to become the Green Bay Packers new ... [+] starting quarterback. (AP Photo/Kiichiro Sato) Expectations are low. The outlook is bleak. The Green Bay Packers have other ideas. FanDuel sportsbook currently picks the Packers (+350) to finish third in the NFC North, behind Detroit (+145) and Minnesota (+260). The over/under on Green Bay’s win total at most sports books — including Topbet.eu — is at 7.5. Here are five reasons the Packers will be one of the NFL’s surprise teams in 2023.  When Green Bay general manager Brian Gutekunst traded Aaron Rodgers this offseason, he said fourth-year quarterback Jordan Love “needs to play.” Love has done just that, and the results have been impressive throughout the summer. Love finished the preseason 21-of-33 for 193 yards with three touchdowns and no interceptions for a passer rating of 109.8. More importantly, though, Love was poised, prepared and in full command throughout training camp and is ready for his chance to shine. “I look back on it, it’s definitely a lot of work to get to this moment right now,” Love said Wednesday. “It’s awesome, man. I just try and take it day by day and just focus on what I can do right now. Today. And get better. It’s definitely an awesome feeling and I’m just excited to keep growing with the guys, keep getting better and attack this season.”  Former Packers general manager Ted Thompson — and Gutekunst now — often say football is a “young man’s game.” Well, that should be good news for Green Bay. The Packers typically had a veteran-filled roster with Rodgers as they tried to chase Super Bowls the last several years. Of course, every Green Bay team since 2010 failed in that pursuit. The Packers won’t call 2023 a “rebuild.” Instead, it’s more of a “reset” with their youngest team in recent memory. Green Bay has just three players at least 30 years old. And 26 of the 53-man roster is either rookies or second-year players (49.1%). There will undoubtedly be some growing pains. But the team speed is dramatically better, the young talent is impressive and the Packers have a roster packed with upside. “I think our intention was to be athletic, fast and have a really competitive camp so that the best guys rose to the top, and I think that’s what we accomplished,” Gutekunst said. “But it wasn’t just to be young.”  These Packers aren’t going to turn back the clock and play 1970s football where teams traveled mostly by ground, not air. But without Rodgers, Green Bay figures to have its most balanced offense in several years. The Packers have one of the NFL’s top offensive lines. Green Bay has a pair of running backs in Aaron Jones and A.J. Dillon that combine to form one of the league’s elite duos. And a quarterback’s best friend — especially a young signal caller — is a talented ground game that sets up the play action game. Matt LaFleur was the offensive coordinator with the Los Angeles Rams and in Tennessee before coming to Green Bay in 2019, and those teams ran the ball as much as they threw. The Packers have the personnel to do the same with a high degree of success this season. “I don’t know if the running game is going to become our identity or not,” Jones said. “We’ll see. I just run the plays they send it, but I know we can be really good running the ball. And I know it would help Jordan (Love) out if we can be great in that area.”  It’s now or never for embattled defensive coordinator Joe Barry. Despite having an NFL-high seven first round draft picks on defense last year, the Packers finished 17th in total defense and 17th in total points. With similar personnel in 2021, Green Bay finished 14th in total points. The Packers made gains down the stretch last season, allowing 16.8 points per game in the last five weeks. Green Bay has largely the same cast of characters — along with another first round pick in outside linebacker Lucas Van Ness — returning, and hopes to build on its 2022 finish. Packer Nation has been waiting for years for its defense to play at an elite level. It’s doubtful this team can do that, but cracking the top-10 in many key statistical categories seems possible. “We’re going to have to go out there and do it as a unit,” Gutekunst said. “But yeah, no I feel good about them. And again, the expectations are high, and I think they know that and I don’t think they’re afraid of it.”  Overall, the Packers’ foes went 137-151-1 last year, a .476 winning percentage. Just six of Green Bay’s 17 games will come against teams that made the postseason last year. And only two teams — defending Super Bowl champion Kansas City and the New York Giants — won playoff games. The Packers will open with road games at Chicago and Atlanta, a pair of teams that combined to go 10-24 last year. Their bye week comes in Week 6, a far better spot than Week 14 last season. Green Bay also won’t face a 2022 playoff team (Minnesota) until Week 8, giving Love and his young offense time to develop. “We're going to continue to improve and that's what I want to see on a daily basis and that's what we're going to see and that's what we're going to see from this team,” Packers coach Matt LaFleur said. “But I'm not going to make some grandiose prediction.” That’s fine. We’ll do it instead. The Packers seem ready to surprise in 2023.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.