~ New whitepaper explores how the lab industry can improve sustainability in ways that improve experimental output and save money ~   The UK’s largest distributor of scientific instrumentation, SciMed, has released a new whitepaper that shares advice with the laboratory industry on ways it can become more sustainable without increasing costs or harming experimental efficiency. These include reducing the use of harmful solvents in procedures such as separations and extractions and using new technology that reduces utilities consumption in lab environments. To download the whitepaper for free, visit here.   The Royal Society of Chemistry’s sustainable laboratories report found that 84% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that they would like to do more to reduce the environmental impact of their day-to-day scientific work. However, many worry that this requires significant financial investment and experimental results might be negatively affected.   Research labs are complicated environments, and it is not always clear what can be done to improve sustainability. SciMed’s new whitepaper eases the confusion by outlining several ways that academic and industrial labs can become more sustainable. Furthermore, it explains how these changes can lead to significant improvements in experimental efficiency and reduce ongoing operational costs.   “We have identified three key areas where scientists can improve sustainability without prohibitive costs or by negatively impacting experimental results,” explained Paul Vanden Branden, director and product manager at SciMed. “The first way of improving sustainability is by reducing utilities consumption. For example, new ICP-MS instruments that use significantly less argon than traditional instruments allow labs with high argon usage to save upwards of £5,000 per year on argon while improving sustainability.   “The other methods of improving sustainability include increasing the use of green solvents, such as supercritical CO2, for experiments such as separations and extractions. This will reduce the reliance on hazardous and environmentally damaging solvents like hexane without impacting the results obtained.   “Next, scientists can increase the use of field-based analytical instruments instead of outsourcing chemical analysis to commercial laboratories. Many field instruments are available that provide experimental results comparable to lab-based techniques faster and using less harmful chemicals, while also minimising transportation requirements. This also comes with the added benefit of saving significant sums of money as outsourcing needs are drastically reduced.”   To download SciMed’s sustainable laboratories whitepaper for free, visit www.scimed.co.uk/sustainable-laboratories-whitepaper/. 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.