Draymond & Poole Source: Ezra Shaw / Getty
 Draymond & Poole Source: Ezra Shaw / Getty During a sit-down interview with Taylor Rooks, Draymond Green gave an update on his relationship with Jordan Poole which apparently still has a ways to go. At the start of the NBA season, all the attention was on the Golden State Warriors. Not because they made it to the top of the NBA mountain yet again but because of a viral moment. A video leaked online showing an altercation between Draymond Green and Jordan Poole.      Play    


					Related Stories
				





 

Spin The Block For Baby? Joie Chavis And Trevon Diggs Share A Smooch At Their Baby Shower Shortly After Announcing Breakup






 

Druski Drops Rubi Rose Breakup Bombshell:  ‘You Don’t Know When You’re Gonna Have To Be Pulling That Wallet Out’






 

Skip Bayless Responds To Draymond Green’s ‘Hater’ Comments & Crowns Him ‘Dirtiest Player In NBA History’





 The video didn’t have audio but showed Draymond Green essentially knocking out his teammate. On opening night the Warriors received their championship rings and even with eyes on both players, things stayed professional. Now over four months later, Green is offering an update on the status of repairing his relationship with Poole.      Play   Draymond Green recently sat down with Taylor Rooks for an interview and opened up about the viral video. Green admitted that he was wrong but also made sure to state there was more to the story. “Once that (video) released, I’m experiencing so many emotions,” Green revealed. “Like, I’m upset. How the hell does this get released? Going through hell because you’re just at the sole discretion of public opinion.” While he didn’t elaborate, he said he would reveal more at a later date. He did however say that things between him and Poole are on the mend. “We go to work every day together,” he said. “Our lockers are right next to each other, that never changed. We ride the same buses together, we change in the same locker room on the road together — none of that has changed.” “Did it change our relationship, of course. Absolutely. That’s still a work in progress. I’ll always be willing to continue to do that work because I was wrong.”   Watch the interview in full below.      Play   
									Welcome To The Bey-lympics! Beyoncé Slays Olympics With All-American Glam In Red, White, And Blue 								 
									BOSSIP Horoscopes: Week Of July 21								 
									Oui Love To See It: Ciara, Teyana Taylor, Venus And Serena Williams & More Slay The Runway At Vogue World: Paris								 
									Cardi B & Meagan Good Attend 2024 Hollywood Unlocked Impact Awards As Jonathan Majors Emotionally Accepts 'Perseverance' Honor								 
									Best Dressed Daddy: A$AP Rocky Stars With Baby Boys, RZA And Riot, In Bottega Veneta Father's Day Campaign								 
									Marshalls Good Stuff Social Club Empowers Women Across Atlanta With Lauren Speed-Hamilton								 
									Daddy Drip Drizzy: Drake Shows Off Hot Soccer Dad Outfit At Son's Game								 
									BOSSIP Horoscopes: Week Of June 2								 Bossip Comment Policy
	Please read our Comment Policy before commenting.