e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
Please email obits@times-standard.com or call 530-896-7718. Please include your name, mailing address, and phone number along with the copy and photo.
  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Mountain Mike’s Pizza announced this week that its new McKinleyville restaurant is now open for business. The new restaurant is owned and operated by brothers and multi-unit franchisees Aamir and Bashir Khan of Khan Venture Group, whose Mountain Mike’s franchise portfolio now expands to four restaurants, complementing existing Northern California locations in Eureka, Rohnert Park and Fortuna, which opened earlier this year. “We’re extremely eager to welcome the McKinleyville community to our new Mountain Mike’s Pizza restaurant as we strive to make this location a destination for the community to gather for all of life’s joyous moments, memorable celebrations and other meaningful occasions for many years to come,” Aamir Khan said in a prepared statement. “Mountain Mike’s Pizza serves menu items that are second-to-none when it comes to quality and taste, and we have watched as more communities continue to fall in love with Mountain Mike’s, which is why we are delighted to help grow the brand along the Northern California coast.” The McKinleyville location is 4,600 square feet and features 15 big-screen televisions, an all-you-can-eat pizza and salad lunch buffet, a 1,000-square-foot kids’ arcade, and a private party room. The new McKinleyville Mountain Mike’s is located at 1500 Anna Sparks Way and can be reached by telephone at 707-203-8500. The restaurant is open daily from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Lost Coast Brewery is going to offer two new beers, the company announced recently. “We felt a need to liven up our offerings with something lighter and smoother to the craft beer market,” Briar Bush, a senior sales manager at the brewery, said in a news release. “Our distributors and customer base are thrilled that we are packaging our pilsner and apricot wheat. Both of these beers will be available in 6-pack cans. Currently, these two new beers are available on tap at either of our two locations in Eureka and random on-premise draft locations.” Founded in 1989, Lost Coast Brewery is the 42nd largest brewery in the United States and in the top 10 in California. To learn more about Lost Coast Brewery, go to www.lostcoast.com. Lost Coast Brewery expanded its offerings with a pilsner and an apricot wheat beer. (Lost Coast Brewery/Contributed) PaintCare, the nonprofit organization created by paint manufacturers, is celebrating 10 years of paint recycling in California. PaintCare’s California program has collected nearly 34 million gallons of paint, stain, and varnish since its launch in 2012, almost half of what PaintCare has collected nationwide. PaintCare makes it easy for households and businesses to drop off leftover paint for recycling at a network of more than 850 drop-off sites throughout the state. There are about five PaintCare drop-off locations in Humboldt County in Eureka, Fortuna, and Redway. Go to https://www.paintcare.org/drop-off-sites/ to find a local location. RCEA is hosting a workshop for medium-duty and heavy-duty fleet operators on Aug. 17, from noon to 2 p.m. at the Jefferson Community Center, 1000 B Street in Eureka and via Zoom. RCEA staff will discuss the California Air Resources Board’s Advanced Clean Fleet Regulation and share resources for private and public sector fleet operators. There will be time for fleet operators to give feedback and collaborate with local agency staff on CARB mandates. Go to RCEA’s events page at https://redwoodenergy.org/events/ for more information. The Zoom link is https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82936420083. For more information, call 707-269-1700, ext. 353. Coast Central Credit Union announced the fall 2023 round of its Community Investment Program is now open. With the Board of Directors’ approval of an increase up to $300,000 in grants annually, $150,000 is available this round to support local organizations throughout Humboldt, Del Norte, and Trinity counties.  Grant amounts generally range from $3,000 to a maximum of $25,000, and there are typically eight to 12 recipients. This round, applications are due directly to Coast Central via email at marketing@coastccu.org or by mail to Coast Central Credit Union Marketing Department, 2650 Harrison Ave., Eureka, CA 95501. To apply and for more information, go to coastccu.org under the Community tab. Applications must be received by 5 p.m. on Aug. 31.  Recipients will be announced mid-October. In 2023 CCCU is on track for an unprecedented $650,000 in total community giving through its grant, sponsorship, and college scholarship programs. Coastal Business Systems, a local provider of office technology solutions, in partnership with Advance Security, a local pioneer in office security systems, announced a Technology Expo on Aug. 17 at the Wharfinger building. The event is from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Technology Expo will showcase the latest advancements in office technology designed to increase productivity, lower costs, and enhance security throughout the entire office environment. The Expo will feature live demonstrations, interactive displays, and discussions on topics including office, home and network security, document management, virtual meeting tools, and technologies to lower printing costs. The Technology Expo is open to all local businesses and professionals interested in learning about the latest trends and innovations in office technology and security. Registration is open, and attendees are encouraged to sign up early as space is limited. For more information, call Coastal Business Systems at 707-445-3095 or Advanced Security at 707-443-6366. Green Diamond Resource Co. announced this year’s natural resources scholarship recipients. The scholarship supports individuals who plan to enter fields of study that will lead to the continued enrichment of natural resource-related industries. “As a company, we remain committed to investing in the next generation of natural resources workers across industry sectors,” said Douglas Reed, president of Green Diamond, in a prepared statement. This year, Green Diamond distributed $18,500 to 30 recipients across Green Diamond’s operating areas who will major in fields from aquatics and biology to logging operations and land surveying. The following individuals received scholarships and are tied to Humboldt County either through attending a local college or graduating from a local high school:   Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group