I’m the least cultured member of my family. My mother, an artist, had to drag me against my will to museums, galleries and exhibits during my childhood. It didn’t take. So when I recently texted my family to tell them we were heading to the immersive Van Gogh exhibit in Jacksonville, they thought I was joking. Especially when my fat fingers typed Van Hogg instead of Van Gogh. My husband agreed to go with me because I recounted every single football game I’ve watched with him. I didn’t know much about the famed artist except that he cut off his ear and killed himself later. However, like most folks, I recognize his work, and unlike Ferris Robinson, I wanted to learn more. The exhibit is travelling to cities all over the U.S. and is set up in three stages. A wide, winding corridor leading to the digitally-reproduced paintings shows letters to and from Vincent’s brother, Theo, as well as information, background and insights into the artist. Nowhere near letter size, the reproductions of these missives are upwards of 16 feet high. And these words were a gentle introduction to a man I understood to be as tormented as he was talented. I was not surprised to learn Vincent Van Gogh was a starving artist, but somehow I never considered this was not his initial career, nor did I know he considered himself an utter failure with a long string of career failures, including that of a preacher like his father and an art dealer like his brother. Even after exhausting his career options and despairing over his attempts, he thought of himself as “less than” in the realm of art, comparing himself to other artists who are not common knowledge in 2023. He signed many of his paintings Vincent because he didn’t think people would know how to pronounce his last name.  His subjects, particularly for his portraits, were not people who necessarily inspired him to paint. He couldn’t afford to pay models, so he painted neighbors, friends, nearby shopkeepers and the postman. Nature was healing for Vincent, and is central to his work. He imbued his landscape with a sense of transcendence, and to experience his work is to reconnect oneself with awe-inspiring nature. 						
						“I always think that what we need is sunshine and fine weather and blue air as the most dependable remedy,” he wrote to Theo in 1888. Moving from the corridor into the gigantic exhibit hall, massive kiosks made the room more intimate and also allowed for close-up details of the paintings on the walls. Displayed at intervals of every few minutes, the art moved on the walls, starting as sketches and evolving stroke by stroke to familiar works of art. The music changed with each display, and was beautifully arranged, with the Beatles’ “Starry Night” on violin and “Here Comes the Sun” on piano. I recognized the portrait of the postmaster from the Lookout Mountain Post Office, and was telling my husband about it when the eyes blinked – a flutter so fast I wondered if I imagined it. I waited and waited, aware my husband was a mite concerned about this odd vision of mine, when he blinked again! Actually there are many subtleties in this exhibit, birds that fly and a windmill that turns, but none of them are obvious.  Or almost none. The almond blossoms that begin to drift from the famed painting cover the floor, moving as if carried by a breeze, soon whirl around, covering the walls in layers, the floor and all of us. The way the paintings change is a work of art in itself. Pale brushstrokes begin to cover up a massive landscape, covering trees, buildings, hills, until the entire canvas (wall) is blank. Or detailed shapes turn to liquid, dripping over the painting until it is no more, and a charcoal sketch begins in the far upper corner, etch-a-sketch style. No transition is the same. “The Starry Night” begins to take shape with swirls and swirls and blues, with night sky patterns becoming more clear until they are vivid on the walls, and the industrial floor turns into to this painting, celestial bodies rotating under our feet so that surrealistically, we are within the painting, experiencing it all around us. Painted soon after he cut off his own ear, “The Starry Night” was created from an asylum in Saint-Remy-de-Provence. Committing himself to the institution, he worked fervently, not stymied by his cell-like surroundings. He found beauty and wanted to share it, even during one of his darkest times.  “Through the iron-barred window I can make out a square of wheat in an enclosure … above which is the morning I see the sun rise in its glory,” he wrote to Theo in 1889. Sharing, connecting with others despite an anguish so intense he cut off part of his own head, was important to him.   Toward the end of our tour, the yellow sunflowers began to appear. His sunflowers are universally appealing, what with the cheery shades of yellow and blue sky backgrounds. Three blossoms in a green stoneware pitcher. But a closer look reveals a withered leaf and faded petals, a realistic interpretation of cut flowers, yet breathtakingly beautiful. “Madness, pain, ear-cutting despair, desolate poverty … the myth of Van Gogh tells of a melancholic martyr who took his own life in an ultimate act of revulsion. By contrast, to follow the evolution of his work is to go from darker shades to the discovery of light and an explosion of pure pigments … To experience his work is to open oneself to immense joy and the boundless power of color.” To be immersed in his work is even more than this to me.  He advised Theo, to “… find things beautiful as much as you can, most people find too little beautiful.”  There is something about knowing his intense pain and despair, and seeing his portrayal of the beauty on this planet. In the throes of anguish, to know he looked for this beauty, and finding it, shared it, is one of the most moving experiences I’ve ever had. * * * Ferris Robinson is the author of three children’s books, “The Queen Who Banished Bugs,” “The Queen Who Accidentally Banished Birds,” and “Call Me Arthropod” in her pollinator series “If Bugs Are Banished.” “Making Arrangements” is her first novel. “Dogs and Love - Stories of Fidelity” is a collection of true tales about man’s best friend. Her website is ferrisrobinson.com and you can download a free pollinator poster there. She is the editor of The Lookout Mountain Mirror and The Signal Mountain Mirror. Chattanooga Parks and Outdoors announces the Second Annual Chatt Town Cool Down, coming to downtown Chattanooga this Friday and Saturday. 
 
"This thrilling end-of-summer event promises a weekend ...  more Here are the new marriage licenses from the County Clerk's office: 
 MARVIN HILL KATHRYN DIANE SMITH 
500 W MARTIN LUTHER KING JR BLVD APT 1601 1405 DALECREST COURT 
CHATTANOOGA, Tennessee ...  more The Urban League of Greater Chattanooga (ULGC) and its president and CEO, Candy Johnson, have been honored with the prestigious John W. Mack Medal of Honor during the National Urban League Conference, ...  more