CANTON − A gondola on the big wheel ride at Hall of Fame Village offers a view unlike any in Stark County. From 125 feet high, it provides a unique and exhilarating vantage point of the landscape. Trucks and cars on Interstate 77 in the distance appear to be miniature. The multi-story Constellation Center for Excellence is far below to the southeast. Same for the Center for Performance sports dome. Rooftops of neighboring houses become tiny. Sure, downtown Canton has a few tall buildings offering grand views, but sitting on the giant wheel roughly nine stories up is a different experience than a window or balcony view. Gusts of wind are invigorating. The gondola gently rocks. If heights aren't your thing, queasiness will grip your stomach. Either way, you'll feel like a slice of Cedar Point has been moved to Canton. Red Zone, a Ferris wheel-style ride that is part of Play-Action Plaza, was scheduled to open Friday, weather dependent, during the Shamrock Shindig event at the Center for Performance, 1901 Champions Gateway, in celebration of St. Patrick's Day. No regular operating hours have been set for the Red Zone ride. Check the Hall of Fame Village's social media accounts for more information and updates. Play-Action Plaza also includes a zipline called Forward Pass. A third football-themed ride is planned for this year; details will be announced later, said John Lytell, director of public affairs for the Village. Thursday offered test rides for staff at the Village and a few other guests. The cost for riding the Red Zone wheel has not been announced yet. More:Giant Ferris wheel, zipline planned for Hall of Fame Village More:Visit Canton opens welcome center at Hall of Fame Village with mural and souvenirs The Village acquired the wheel ride from the I-X Center (International Exposition Center) in Cleveland. Contractors were hired to condition the machinery and provide any required maintenance. Last year, pieces of the amusement park-style ride were transported to the Village and reassembled. The wheel is named Red Zone because it has 20 gondolas, a reference to the 20-yard area in front of an end zone. More:Giant wheel is coming together at Hall of Fame Village Michael Crawford, president and CEO of the Hall of Fame Resort and Entertainment Co., was the first person to ride the wheel earlier this week. Colored lighting will illuminate the wheel at night, assuring it will stand out and become a signature of the Hall of Fame Village skyline. Colors will glow green tonight in celebration of St. Patrick's Day, Village officials said. Red Zone and the roughly 3-acre Play-Action Plaza are part of the Hall of Fame Village entertainment campus being developed around the Pro Football Hall of Fame and Tom Benson Hall of Fame Stadium. Village attractions include Don Shula's American Kitchen, which is scheduled to open for dinner on March 21 and 22 before opening for both lunch and dinner thereafter. Other tenants will include The Brew Kettle craft brewery, a Pizza Oven restaurant, Topgolf Swing Suite, Smoosh Cookies and a BetRivers sports betting site, which is expected to open this summer. Construction started late last year on a $100 million-plus football-themed indoor waterpark. Work on an adjacent hotel is expected to begin this year. Reach Ed at 330-580-8315 and ebalint@gannett.com On Twitter @ebalintREP This article originally appeared on The Repository: Hall of Fame Village debuts new Red Zone Ferris wheel-style ride New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.