Jan. 7—Aiken will soon be getting a Lowes Foods. Information provided to the Aiken City Council ahead of Monday's meeting indicates that Lowes Foods will be the tenant of a 50,000-square-foot building to be constructed at a new shopping center on the Southside. Lowes Foods is a regional supermarket chain operating stores in South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia. It was founded in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, in 1954. The company has 81 stores. It is a subsidiary of the Hickory, North Carolina, based Alex Lee Inc. Alex Lee also owns a distribution company, Merchants Distributors LLC, that serves other grocery stores in the southeast including KJ's Markets. The shopping center will be located behind and to the north of the Circle K gas station located on the northeast corner of the intersection of Whiskey Road, Powderhouse Road and Stratford Drive. Access will be available via Whiskey Road and two points on Powderhouse Road. The Aiken City Council approved the annexation of the property, its zoning as planned commercial and the concept plan calling for the construction of the 50,000-square-foot store, 20,040 square feet of additional retail space and nine buildings with 48 total attached single-family homes June 13. City Manager Stuart Bedenbaugh wrote to the city council Thursday that the plans for the shopping center include the construction of a deceleration lane where Powderhouse Road ends at Whiskey Road. He said the city has had several conversations with the shopping center's developer, Aiken Powderhouse LLC, and has determined that it is appropriate to share the costs of the construction of the deceleration lane. To share the costs, city council must agree to enter a cost-sharing agreement with Aiken Powderhouse LLC. The agreement to be considered by city council on Monday evening calls for Aiken Powderhouse LLC to pay for the design work for the deceleration lane — Bedenbaugh says the cost is estimated at $85,000 — and the city to pay for the construction at an estimated cost of $100,000. Bedenbaugh said the deceleration lane will be the city's second upgrade to the intersection. He said the city paid for the installation of a traffic signal at the intersection more than a year ago. The city council meeting is scheduled for 7 p.m. Monday in the city council chamber on the third floor of the municipal building located at 111 Chesterfield St. SW. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.