This also means faster robotics and self-driving cars. Sejal Sharma 0 Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang and Foxconn chairman Young Liu will build 'AI factories.' Foxconn  Foxconn  Foxconn, the largest producer of iPhones, is joining hands with the biggest chipmaker in the world, NVIDIA, to develop artificial intelligence factories that will power a range of applications like self-driving cars, more generative AI tools, and robotic systems, said a press release. Dubbed AI factories, they are data centers that will power a wide range of applications, including the digitalization of manufacturing and inspection workflows, the development of AI-powered electric vehicle and robotics platforms, and language-based generative AI services. “A new type of manufacturing has emerged — the production of intelligence. And the data centers that produce it are AI factories,” said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA. “Foxconn, the world’s largest manufacturer, has the expertise and scale to build AI factories globally. We are delighted to expand our decade-long partnership with Foxconn to accelerate the AI industrial revolution.” The AI factories will be based on the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform, along with its latest GPU offering – the GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip – and NVIDIA AI Enterprise software.  “Most importantly, NVIDIA and Foxconn are building these factories together. We will be helping the whole industry move much faster into the new AI era,” said Foxconn Chairman and CEO Young Liu. Foxconn will be using NVIDIA’s offerings for autonomous automotive fleets, robotic systems, and developing smart cities. Huang and Liu shared a stage at Foxconn’s annual tech showcase in Taipei on Wednesday. This is a positive partnership for NVIDIA, especially since it saw a drop in its share value Tuesday when the US invoked greater restrictions on the chipmaker to import its AI chips, technology, and other equipment to China. The Biden administration doesn’t want China to use US-made chips, like NVIDIA’s powerful semiconductors, for military use and to get ahead in the arms race. The latest regulation puts a supply pause on NVIDIA’s A800 and H800 chips to China, which the Huang-led company had specifically built for the country. Earlier this year, the two big tech players announced a partnership to develop platforms for autonomous vehicles. In this new era of the computing revolution, this means we will see generative AI tools running on NVIDIA semiconductors in Foxconn cars. In another press release, the two announced how Foxconn will be using a range of NVIDIA DRIVE solutions — including NVIDIA DRIVE Orin and DRIVE Thor to realize its EV vision. Foxconn presently produces a small number of EVs and wants to attain a 5 percent share of the global market by 2025. NVIDIA is one of the most sought-after AI companies in the world today. As reported by IE earlier, NVIDIA disclosed a quarterly revenue of $13.51 billion in the second quarter of 2023, up by 88 percent from the first quarter and an increase of 101 percent from the second quarter of last year, reported Interesting Engineering earlier.  Stay up-to-date on engineering, tech, space, and science news with The Blueprint. By clicking sign up, you confirm that you accept this site's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Sejal Sharma Sejal is a Delhi-based journalist, currently dedicated to reporting on technology and culture. She is particularly enthusiastic about covering artificial intelligence, the semiconductor industry and helping people understand the powers and pitfalls of technology. Outside of work, she likes to play badminton and spend time with her dogs. Feel free to email her for pitches or feedback on her work. a day ago a day ago a day ago a day ago