
Medindia »
News »
Dental News »
 Smoking Holds Up Gum Disease Treatment Benefits             
Smoking can have a serious impact on the effect of the treatment of periodontitis – a widespread condition that leads to the degradation of the teeth’s supportive tissue called gums and, in serious cases, to loss of the teeth. This is shown by a new study published in the Journal of Dental Research.
The researchers studied the effect of different levels of smoking on the clinical results of the treatment of more or less advanced cases of periodontitis.

Cigarette Smoking - A Silent Killer-Facts, Passive Smoking & How to QuitSmoking kills the smoker silently, pushing him towards serious illnesses, which slowly lead to death.
‘Heavy smokers should be offered help to quit smoking if they suffer from severe gum disease.’        
The study shows that heavy smokers with the most severe forms of inflammation obtained no benefit from the treatment, while heavy smokers with moderate gum disease only had a 50 percent effective from the treatment, compared to smokers with less tobacco consumption.
The disease had grown worse in some parameters in the hardest-hit group, even though this particular group had received the most extensive, individually-designed treatment.
Quit Smoking to Avail the Benefits of Gum Disease Treatment
It is estimated that around 40 percent of the population is affected by periodontitis (gum disease), but there is a great deal of variation in how severely the disease develops in each patient.  The treatment is adapted to the individual patient, including deep cleansings of the affected teeth, information about the harmful effects of smoking, and, in some cases, surgery.
This study illustrates the need for politicians and decision-makers to better incorporate referrals to smoking cessation courses in the treatment of periodontitis when developing new clinical guidelines and performance descriptions.

One Cigarette Can Block Estrogen ProductionEstrogen production in women’s brains is blocked by a dose of nicotine, equivalent to that found in a single cigarette.
This is completely new knowledge for the country’s dental clinics, and it should be taken into account when treatment is planned for individual patients.
Dentists and dental hygienists currently refer patients to quit-smoking courses only to a limited extent as part of the treatment of periodontitis. This should be changed. For the first time, the study shows that in the case of heavy smokers, a worsening of the disease may occur during a period of active treatment.Advertisement     

Being Lonely and Unhappy can Speed Up AgingNegative feelings like loneliness and unhappiness can trigger premature aging. Building positive feelings (happiness, hope and safety) could be the best anti-aging therapy.
As a heavy smoker patient with periodontitis (gum disease), it is very important to understand that working towards stopping smoking is a crucial step in the effective treatment of the disease.
Advertisement     

Smoking, Inactivity Increase Death Risk in Diabetics Diagnosed With CancerSmoking and physical inactivity increase the risk of early death in diabetics with cancer.Source-Eurekalert
             Disclaimer - All information and content on this site are for information and educational purposes only. The information should not be used for either diagnosis or treatment or both for any health related problem or disease. Always seek the advice of a qualified physician for medical diagnosis and treatment. Full Disclaimer Advertise with us | Medindia Copyright | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © All Rights Reserved 1997 - 2024