If you’re an online shopper, you likely have loads of cardboard boxes cluttering your home. One TikToker shared a genius gardening hack that’ll put your boxes to good use. In a viral TikTok, Simon Akeroyd (@simonakeroydgardener) shared a simple technique for making plastic-free plant pots using cardboard. All you need is a few cardboard boxes, tin cans or glass jars, and water. The first step to Akeroyd’s potting hack is to disassemble your boxes. Be sure to remove any labels or tape. Then you need to soak the cardboard in water for about 15 minutes. Cut the cardboard into strips and wrap them around the sides and bottom of glass mason jars or empty tin cans. Keep a close eye on your pots, as you want to remove them before they are completely dry. After removing your pots, you can add soil and seeds to grow plants. You can leave them as is or plant them directly into the ground. “The cardboard will naturally decompose,” Akeroyd wrote in the TikTok’s caption. “This avoids disturbing the roots.” This gardening hack is a simple DIY project that will help your wallet, your garden, and the environment. Plant pots can cost a few dollars or upward of $100, depending on size, retailer, and quality. If you have multiple seeds or plants to pot, these expenses add up. This hack can offset your gardening costs because you are using materials you likely already own to create pots. Your plants will thank you for using biodegradable plant pots rather than terracotta or plastic. Because biodegradable fibers break down easily, roots can push through the sides of the cardboard as they grow. When planted in the ground, these cardboard pots will not disturb the roots and prevent transplant shock. Transplant shock often happens when plants are moved, repotted, or introduced to a new environment. It can make leaves, flowers, and fruit wilt — or make plants die altogether. As the cardboard degrades, this hack allows roots to grow seamlessly and uninterrupted into the soil. Redirecting your cardboard boxes from the landfill to your garden can benefit the environment. When cardboard isn’t recycled, it breaks down in landfills and releases polluting gasses into the air. When you let cardboard decompose in the soil, it adds organic matter, boosts the soil’s nutrient levels, and enhances garden drainage. Akeroyd’s fellow TikTokers were impressed by this genius gardening technique, sharing praise in the comment section. “That’s thinking outside the box,” one user wrote. “No pun intended.” Another TikToker said, “What a great idea!” “I’ve also used multiple layers of newspaper,” a user added. “Thanks for the post.” Join our free newsletter for easy tips to save more, waste less, and help yourself while helping the planet. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.