Stock your pantry with these top 5 carby, cheesy winners. Breana Lai Killeen When you think of a box of mac and cheese, you might imagine the original blue box (here’s the best hack to make it extra tasty), but the mac and cheese aisle has been expanding for years. Standing in the grocery store, you're now met with several brands, multiple types of pasta shapes, different types of cheese, a plethora of different textures, and new creative seasonings. I realized this was going to be the largest tasting I've ever done, but since it was for mac and cheese, I wasn't the least bit sad, nor was my family. Once you decide which box is for you, enjoy it as-is, or fancy it up for a full-blown meal. Here's what we found after trying 18 types (yes, you read that correctly) of mac and cheese. Since there were so many types of mac and cheese to try and I only have six pots, we tasted the boxes by category. First, we tried the yellow mac and cheeses, then the white versions, followed by the deluxe category, and finally, the non-traditional. Each mac and cheese was prepared according to package instructions without the optional ingredients added, which was generally the butter. The dishes were then tried blind, i.e. the tasters didn't know which brand was associated with each taste. The mac and cheese was judged on texture, cheesiness, and general flavor. After boiling a lot of noodles and squeezing a lot of cheese sauce packets, here's what we found. Annie's Annie's gluten-free mac and cheese uses rice pasta and had the best texture of all the gluten-free versions. Tasters found the pasta to be surprisingly firm despite the initial fear that the gluten-free version might turn to mush. In fact, some tasters said they wished the pasta was cooked a minute or so longer. Nevertheless, the flavor is the hands-down favorite in the gluten-free category. Kraft As if making boxed mac and cheese wasn't easy enough, the deluxe versions make it even easier. All you do is boil the noodles and squeeze in the thick cheese sauce. Done. Well, I must admit, as a whole, these were my least favorite varieties because they tasted the least like homemade. However, the addition of the little packet of garlic and herbs in the Kraft Deluxe made me keep going back for a second, third, and fourth taste. And other tasters agreed. Annie's Of all the "original" mac and cheese options, Annie's Cheddar classic go-to emerged on top with most of the tasters due to the shell pasta shape and the balanced cheesy sauce. One tester said, "the cheesiness doesn't taste fake and the white cheddar makes it feel more homestyle," which pretty much sums up why this was the unanimous pick for the best regular boxed mac and cheese. Cabot Entering the mac and cheese market seems like a tough gamble, but Cabot, the Vermont-based dairy farm cooperative known for its premium Cheddar, jumped into the grocery game. Lucky for them, they did a good job, and this mac and cheese is clearly made with premium cheese. It's a little more expensive than the blue box but only by $1 or $2 depending on your store. Trust me, it's worth it. Kraft As a dietitian, I've always been a bit skeptical about the sneaky veggie technique, i.e. slipping some vegetables into a dish that the child doesn't know is there. But as someone who now has 2-year-old twin toddlers, I'll admit that this new mac and cheese with cauliflower from Kraft isn't just smart, it's pretty tasty. While a kid (or adult) is only getting a 1/4 cup of vegetables per mac and cheese serving, it's still better than none. But the real joy is that the cauliflower adds a really nice flavor to the pasta. Add peas to this mac, and you're getting really close to filling that daily veggie quota. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.