Three years removed from the onset  of the pandemic, organizations across industries are still grappling with  security concerns as they figure out the best way to secure employees moving between  workspaces and working from a mix of personal and corporate devices.  While many positions spanning  the likes of healthcare, manufacturing and retail never had the opportunity to  move to a remote or hybrid work arrangement, the reality is that millions  around the world will never return to a full-time, office-based role. However,  this does not mean that all these workers will never return to the office.  Major corporations like  Amazon, Disney and Starbucks have instituted return-to-work mandates with mixed  receptions, but the more likely outcome for employers going forward is taking  the middle ground between fully remote and fully in-person work. Most have categorized  this style as “hybrid” work, but the more appropriate classification would be  “flexible” work. Hybrid implies something of a dichotomy, i.e., an employee  works from home, or from the corporate office. But the working options that  many of today’s employees have extended well beyond just two locations.  Organizations today are not  only offering employees more flexible work arrangements, but they are also  looking to secure those setups. As more companies deploy flexible work, new  questions are being raised about both physical and cybersecurity.  There has been no greater need  than now to merge and intersect physical and facility data with cybersecurity.  Organizations must leverage all avenues at their disposal to prevent physical  and cyberattacks. Without the blending of physical and cybersecurity, teams  could be missing out on valuable insights that could prevent a breach in either  realm.  Though the concept has been  around for more than a decade, executing Zero Trust is still a hurdle for  organizations today. The idea behind Zero Trust is that only trusted identities  are granted access to applications, systems, networks and data given their role  within an organization. This trust must then be reestablished at each step to  ensure that a user attempting to gain access is who they claim to be. By adopting a Zero Trust  security model, enterprises are enabling breach prevention. It would be  impossible for any given security tactic to stop breaches altogether, but Zero  Trust helps position organizations to contain isolated events before they  become significant breaches. In today’s flexible working environment, companies  have to be prepared for security incidents to pop up just about anywhere. With more companies  accommodating flexible work, one of the burning questions among security  practitioners is, “How do we secure all the different spaces where employees  are working?”  Modern buildings and  workplaces have breakout spaces, creative spaces, hot desks, meeting rooms and  more, giving employees more choices than ever when it comes to deciding the  ways and places in which they want to work and collaborate with their  teammates. The power of choice grants employees flexibility that the  workforce has never previously experienced.  Organizations are ultimately  responsible for securing themselves and their employees, regardless of where they  are physically located. An employee’s physical location, be it the corporate  office, a local coffee shop or elsewhere, can no longer be viewed as an  inherent source of trust. This is why the Zero Trust framework has become so  valuable. Identity and access management  is one of the key pillars of a Zero Trust framework. Under this model, it is  assumed that a network is always hostile, whether it’s a corporate network or  otherwise. Geography is only one consideration used to gauge trust. By applying  more stringent access controls, such as attribute-based authentication or other  additional security checks, companies can build the foundation of their Zero  Trust model. It is difficult to say which  type of workspace is best protected, or easiest to secure these days. Companies  fell into routines when employees were working remotely, just as they had  security best practices solidified back when most teams were working out of the  same office. Now, security teams are being forced to divide their attention and  resources across several spaces, again underscoring the importance of Zero  Trust. Security teams need to be  mindful of who is managing a building when employees are not around and monitor  the flow of people in and out of that building. Everything down to the literal  facility management systems needs to be protected. Attackers know as well as  anybody that corporate spaces are going to be unoccupied at certain times. The  same systems that facility managers are using to manage buildings remotely can  be coopted by attackers for their own nefarious purposes.  Facility management  technologies serve as a prime example of the intersection between physical and  cybersecurity. For example, proximity sensors and badge readers confirming  someone’s physical presence in an office contrasted with cyber activity  indicating that someone is somewhere else can raise a red flag. This  hypothetical could be indicative of a stolen badge used to access a physical  site, or that an attacker is leveraging compromised credentials to pose as an  employee from an entirely different location. Regardless, it illustrates where  cyber and physical security meets and why organizations need to integrate both  into their strategies. Beyond the people management  component of security, flexible work also creates a set of new challenges  around protecting company assets. This primarily includes assets you typically  think of in an office space, like laptops or mobile devices, but also company  equipment such as vehicle fleets or heating and cooling systems.  The conversation around  devices, however, extends beyond corporate-issued items. With the prominence of  bring-your-own-device (BYOD) policies, many employees are using personal  devices in corporate spaces and accessing corporate networks.  Personal devices may not be  subject to the same stringent security policies as company-issued devices.  Signing into a corporate device may trigger certain security and governance  policies, preventing that user from accessing something like a malicious web  link or file. Working from a personal computer, an employee may not have those  same policies in place, leaving their device and data more vulnerable to  threats. Malicious actors may have more success infiltrating an organization  through an employee’s personal laptop that has less sophisticated controls  attached to it.  Implementing robust corporate  security controls is an important step toward protecting employees, and the  company, across devices and across locations. Under the premise of Zero Trust,  employees need to be reauthorized each time they go to access corporate  applications or sensitive data. By adhering to Zero Trust principles, companies  can do their part to ensure that any unusual activity gets flagged at the  source before the entire organization is put at risk. Building a cybersecurity  program in the context of today’s flexible workforce is a tall order for any  security team. With so much evolution in the workplace happening so quickly,  the emerging challenges of balancing physical and cybersecurity may not yet be  realized by key stakeholders. Developing a modern security strategy  around corporate resilience starts with a top-down approach. This means that  executives, starting with the C-suite, need to buy in and be involved in  conversations around the organization’s strategy for securing flexible work  arrangements. These stakeholders ultimately control the purse strings, which  dictate the budgets for security initiatives, tools and teams. Fostering these  relationships helps lay the groundwork for executing a successful security  strategy.  This all starts with an open  dialogue. Security leaders need to articulate how cyber and physical risk  overlap, as well as communicate how security can impact the bottom line. The  objective of the security team should be to easily connect the dots for  executive decision-makers, explaining just what could happen should a  vulnerability be exploited successfully. Whether it's data loss, regulatory compliance  failure or reputational damage, security issues often carry a financial consequence  that matters to the board.  Security posture is also  connected to valuation. When it comes to mergers and acquisitions, security is  increasingly taken into consideration as part of the evaluation process,  underscoring the need for executives to make cyber strategy a top priority. A  company can lose value if it is perceived to be under-protected and no security  team wants to be blamed for a failed merger or acquisition.  Companies need to be able to  manage risk proactively and can set themselves up for success by ensuring that  corporate leadership is dedicating time and resources to security efforts. Highlighting  relevant data points can help tell the story for those who may not be involved  with the day-to-day security activities. Practitioners must ensure that they  are collecting data that matters, such as occupancy and space utilization  statistics, to help illustrate the direction behind proposed security  initiatives like Zero Trust.  For security practitioners,  the adoption of flexible work has demonstrated where organizations have room  for improvement in their security postures. Even as attackers get more creative  with their exploits, models like Zero Trust provide an outline of how to  protect your organization, employees and assets.  The pandemic years have been  inherently difficult to plan around, and while the future of working  arrangements is still being written, cues can be taken from business operations  around the world. Office occupancy has returned to pre-pandemic levels across  the Asia-Pacific region and Europe is not far behind. While North America, and  the United States in particular, trails their international counterparts, it  seems that the tide is slowly turning.   Flexible work is proving to be  a key driver behind this return and security teams should be developing their future  plans in the context of this arrangement. Pursuing a top-down approach that  accounts for physical workspace and asset security, alongside cybersecurity, allows  organizations to embrace flexible work models with peace of mind. CISO James Carder of Eptura, a newly formed  worktech brand focusing on workplace, facility and asset management. In his  role as CISO, James is dedicating his time to solving security challenges –  both cyber and physical – presented by remote and hybrid work styles. Carder  brings more than 25 years of corporate IT security and consulting for the  Fortune 1000 and U.S. Government. Prior to joining Eptura™, James served as  Chief Security Officer and VP of LogRhythm Labs where he built the program into  a world class security organization. James is a sought-after and frequent  speaker at cybersecurity events and is a noted author of several cybersecurity  publications. He is an Advisory Board member for the University of Colorado  Denver, PlexTrac, TruKno, Coalfire, Circle Systems, Resurface Labs, Cyber  Sainik, and the Identity Defined Security Alliance (IDSA); a Certified  Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP); former ICIT Fellow; and a  member of the Forbes Technology Council.