Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Pro-Russia hackers took down the British Royal Family’s website for an hour over the weekend, according to reports.Buckingham Palace did not comment on the quickly contained outage, but pro-Russia hackers claimed responsibility, ABC News reported. The site, royal.uk, was down for more than an hour after being overwhelmed in a denial-of-service attack.Denial-of-service is a tactic that bombards a website or network with so many requests that it crashes. The website was not hacked, as no one gained access to its systems or to content, a royal source told ABC News.The website was back up again on Sunday and still live on Monday, with apparent additional security checks before it would actually load.The leader of a Russian outfit called Killnet said the group was responsible for the hack, The Telegraph reported. It describes itself as a “pro-Kremlin” outfit that targets countries supporting Ukraine against the invasion from Russia that begin in February 2022.Killnet has been operating since about that time, launching disruptive but not damaging attacks that have drawn the U.S. government’s notice. The outages can last hours or days, and “the group should be considered a threat to government and critical infrastructure organizations including healthcare,” the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Cybersecurity Coordination Center said in an analyst note cited by ABC News.King Charles and several other members of the Royal Family have voiced support for Ukraine. He spoke before the French Parliament last month, becoming the first British royal to do so from the Senate Chamber, People reported.“Together, we stand with the Ukrainian people in resolute solidarity,” Charles said in the historic speech during his state visit to France with Queen Camilla. “Together, we are unwavering in our determination that Ukraine will triumph and our cherished freedoms will prevail.”

 Buckingham Palace did not comment on the quickly contained outage, but pro-Russia hackers claimed responsibility, ABC News reported. The site, royal.uk, was down for more than an hour after being overwhelmed in a denial-of-service attack. Denial-of-service is a tactic that bombards a website or network with so many requests that it crashes. The website was not hacked, as no one gained access to its systems or to content, a royal source told ABC News. The website was back up again on Sunday and still live on Monday, with apparent additional security checks before it would actually load. The leader of a Russian outfit called Killnet said the group was responsible for the hack, The Telegraph reported. It describes itself as a “pro-Kremlin” outfit that targets countries supporting Ukraine against the invasion from Russia that begin in February 2022. Killnet has been operating since about that time, launching disruptive but not damaging attacks that have drawn the U.S. government’s notice. The outages can last hours or days, and “the group should be considered a threat to government and critical infrastructure organizations including healthcare,” the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Cybersecurity Coordination Center said in an analyst note cited by ABC News. King Charles and several other members of the Royal Family have voiced support for Ukraine. He spoke before the French Parliament last month, becoming the first British royal to do so from the Senate Chamber, People reported. “Together, we stand with the Ukrainian people in resolute solidarity,” Charles said in the historic speech during his state visit to France with Queen Camilla. “Together, we are unwavering in our determination that Ukraine will triumph and our cherished freedoms will prevail.” Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News