High-quality well data when it matters most Mitigating deepwater and subsea formation evaluation challenges Enhanced subsurface insight, superior drilling performance, and consistent well delivery Curing severe to total losses while drilling to achieve zonal isolation Improving drilling performance with LOGIX® High-performance water-based fluids and additives customized to meet your specific challenges Monitoring solution for continuous data of the subsurface Powering a new era in hydraulic fracturing Robust and reliable liners for onshore and offshore installations Design and monitoring expertise to digitally transform ESP performance Combination of probes, chemistry, monitoring, and automated control delivers significant savings Decisive insight for optimal well intervention and integrity Safely plug wells and help prevent carbon emissions Drill Tech® and RTTS® enable wellbore cleanout test in single trip Integrated approach for wellbore cleanup and displacement Subscription service solution for ultimate well control Integrated service solution delivers first onshore ERD well and longest onshore well Develop new, mature, and unconventional fields efficiently Enterprise scale deployment of tried and tested E&P software Providing unparalleled decision-making capabilities under uncertainty while drilling Deploy, integrate, and manage sophisticated E&P cloud applications Halliburton employees across the globe organized initiatives to support World Environment Day and its 2023 theme, #beatplasticpollution. Share Article Halliburton employees across the globe organized initiatives to support World Environment Day and its 2023 theme, #beatplasticpollution. The Talent Management and Health, Safety, and Environment teams in Europe, Eurasia, and Sub-Saharan Africa (EESSA) encouraged local communities to #beatplasticpollution through education and engagement. The team created and circulated a collage featuring artwork from employees’ children that depicted topics related to plastic pollution and recycling. The collage, which included 60 drawings, paintings, and other artwork, was created to heighten awareness about plastic pollution, and highlight actions employees and their families can take to reduce their environmental impact at work and at home. Talent Management Manager and project coordinator Mairalejandra Infante said, “The main goal of this campaign was to create a project where we capture the reality of plastic pollution through the vision of our children.” A group of Halliburton employees and RISE Scholars recently gathered at Prairie View A&M University (PVAMU) for a campus clean-up event. Darianna Glenn, RISE Scholars president and IT specialist, collaborated with University Affairs to organize the service project. “We organized the PVAMU Clean-Up event to show the RISE Scholars Halliburton cares about community,” Glenn said. “It was another great opportunity to demonstrate Halliburton’s commitment to PVAMU goes beyond work.” The clean-up effort involved trash collection in common areas and parking lots.  Emily Clark, volunteer and University Affairs Specialist, said, “I was very happy to be part of the Prairie View A&M University Campus Clean-Up event. It builds comradery between the RISE Scholars and highlights Halliburton’s values. It showed the RISE Scholars that Halliburton cares about the community and specifically about them and their university.” To learn more about Halliburton’s values and its commitment to the community, visit About Us. Share Article Stay up to date on the energy evolution