 Trending Source: Ambitious Shooters / Ambitious Shooters Hanes is a classic brand that boasts over 100 years of comfortable, stylish undergarments. The age-old company, dubbed America’s No. 1 Brand of Underwear, launched its “Make Yourself Comfortable” campaign, and HelloBeautiful got a first look at the collection, which encourages consumers to embrace style without compromising comfort. My life has shifted drastically since Covid. The days of leaving the house Monday through Friday have been done for nearly three years. Now, my wardrobe prioritizes comfort, with the occasional call for a festive ensemble. This new way of life aligns with Hanes’ mission to “Make Yourself Comfortable.”  “Comfort is at the very core of Hanes, and it has been for more than 100 years” said Jane Newman, Chief Design Officer, Global Innerwear, Hanes. “With the launch of our new Originals collection, we continue our legacy of delivering basics that are far from basic, with contemporary comfort at incredible value. The Hanes Originals collection meets at the intersection of comfort and fashion-forward design, delivering a uniquely youthful assortment of apparel.” Fashion-forward, indeed. The brand gifted me with a box, which included a few sets of undergarments, a fun tea set, candles, coasters – all reminiscent of Bridgerton – and a super-comfortable, chic sweatsuit. Source: Ambitious Shooters / Ambitious Shooters The grey hoodie was slightly cropped, exposing little to no skin. The material was soft and breathable. The matching pants fit comfortably, allowing me to move around with ease. Since receiving the sweatsuit last week, I’ve worn it twice! The latest campaign includes an array of styles for anyone who prioritizes comfort. From sports bras and matching biker shorts to printed undies and casual hoodies, there’s something for everyone, and it’ll appeal to your desire to come as you are. “Comfort is more than just the sensation of clothing on your skin,” said Dawn Hedgepeth, SVP & GM, Women’s Innerwear, U.S., Hanes. “We went deeper with this collection to ensure that wearing our Hanes Originals will inspire our consumers. We want them to embrace their own originality by mixing and matching patterns, colors, and styles.” You can purchase the latest campaign in stores and online. DON’T MISS… Tried It: Mayvenn’s Brazilian Kinky Straight Bundles Look So Natural, My Friends Were Fooled Tried It: Ivy Park’s Latest Ivytopia Collection Will Activate Your Inner Baddie  
									Tracee Ellis Ross's Topless Selfie Exposes The Selective Outrage, Misogyny, And Ageism That Plagues Black Women								 
									Coi Leray Does The Big Chop And We're In Love								 
									TheNeighborhoodTalk CEO Kyle Simpson On Building The Brand And What's Next								 
									Ari Lennox Is Giving Us Major Body Goals In An Itty-Bitty Dior Bikini On Instagram								 
									Is '90s "It Girl" Maia Campbell Making A Comeback? We Hope So								 
									Alicia Keys' Latest Denim Look Is The Fall Style Inspo We Needed								 
									28 Memorable Nip Slips & Wardrobe Malfunctions You HAVE To See Now (NSFW PHOTOS)								 
									We're Putting Garcelle Beauvais' Latest 'Do On Our Fall Hairstyle Mood Board								 
For 2024’s iteration of MadameNoire and HelloBeautiful’s annual series Women to Know, we knew we wanted to celebrate the people who help make the joys of film and television possible. To create art is to create magic. This year, we spotlight Hollywood Executive’s changing the face of cinema.
 
					We care about your data. See our privacy policy.				 An Urban One Brand Copyright © 2024 Interactive One, LLC. All Rights Reserved.