Last year: Dolly. This year: Willie. The Rock & Roll Hall of Fame may honor another country legend in its 2023 class – Willie Nelson – while 13 other nominated artists continue to expand the hall's purview beyond the archetypal definition of rock. The rest of the artists who round out this year's tally: Both Elliott and The White Stripes earned nods in their first year of eligibility – the first commercial recording must have been released at least 25 years before a nomination – while Crow, Lauper, Michael, Nelson, Zevon and Joy Division/New Order are making their ballot debuts. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Best Grammy performances of all time: From Demi Lovato to Madonna Rage Against the Machine, A Tribe Called Quest and Bush all picked up nominations last year in a more crowded field of 17 potential entrants. Michael, who died in 2016 and has been eligible since 2012, was name-checked by the late Taylor Hawkins when Foo Fighters were inducted in 2021. “I’d like to see George Michael in there one day,” Hawkins said, eliciting major cheers from that year’s audience. In recent years, the Rock Hall has been rebuked for a relative lack of female inductees. But both 2021 (Tina Turner, The Go-Go’s, Carole King) and 2022 (Dolly Parton, Pat Benatar, Carly Simon and Annie Lennox with Eurythmics) saw an increase in gender diversity – a shift also indicative on the 2023 list. Parton initially refused to be considered for entry, believing that a country artist shouldn’t take votes away from traditional rockers. But she acquiesced once Rock Hall organizers explained the breadth of what they consider rock ’n’ roll. (Parton is now readying her first rock album, a direct result of her 2022 induction.) Dolly's wish: The country icon has one rock star she still wants for her new album This year’s inductees will be announced in May. The ceremony will take place this fall, with a location and date to be determined. Through April 28, fans can vote online every day at vote.rockhall.com (or in person at the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Museum in Cleveland). The top five artists selected by the public will comprise a “fan ballot” that will be tallied along with other ballots to determine the 2023 inductees. Artists who win the fan vote frequently earn induction, including Duran Duran (2022); Tina Turner (2021); Def Leppard (2019) and Bon Jovi (2018). Nominee ballots are submitted by an international voting body of more than 1,000 artists, historians and members of the music industry, taking into account each artist’s musical influence, length and depth of career and body of work and superiority in style. Still fighting the power: Chuck D discusses his new docuseries about hip-hop history