Rough Crafts just went and turned the Harley–Davidson Street Bob into something out of a big-budget sci-fi game. The one-of-a-kind ride, aptly christened Cosmos Charger, has a decidedly futuristic aesthetic akin to the motorcycles of Cyberpunk 2077. It’s just missing Keanu Reeves in the saddle. More from Robb Report Ferrari's Gorgeous New One-Off Was Inspired by a Race Car From the 1950s Savas Is Bringing Its Bespoke Leather Jackets to a New Flagship Store in LA Canali Expands Made-To-Measure to Jeans, Trenches and More The Taiwan-based shop built the bike in honor of Cooler Master’s anniversary, according to Bike Exif. The computer hardware company, which makes cases, coolers and other accessories, has chalked up three decades in the tech business. What better way to celebrate, eh? The Street Bob is one of Harley’s more stripped-down models, so Rough Crafts’s Winston Yeh took the opportunity to really go wild. The Cosmos Charger has been finished almost entirely in black save for some exposed carbon fiber. All of the curves have been squared off to create a delightfully boxy silhouette. The bike’s also been fitted with an angular cowling, which all but rids it of any of the original’s retro flair. The menacing black is broken up by purple lighting and silver Cooler Master badging. Rough Crafts didn’t just change the bike’s shape and paint job, though. It also equipped the two-wheeler with a set of new Öhlins forks and shocks, a swingarm from The Speed Merchant and Performance Machine wheels wrapped in Metzeler ME888 tires. The Milwaukee-Eight 114 engine, which can produce 100 hp and 119 ft lbs of torque, appears to have been left untouched. “For their 30th anniversary, Cooler Master asked me to build a bike and matching computer case to celebrate,” Yeh told Bike Exif. “I set out to combine signature elements of both worlds—the brand’s signature purple lighting, and the sharp edges and boxy shapes that are found on most Cooler Master cases. Plus, Rough Crafts’s signature fin details, with lots of forged carbon fiber.” Unfortunately, the Cosmos Charger is a one-off—for now, at least. Neither Rough Crafts or Cooler Masters have said a thing about selling the motorcycle. You could, of course, commission a bike of a similar nature from the custom shop. Best of Robb Report The 15 Best Travel Trailers for Camping and Road-Tripping Adventures The Chevy C8 Corvette: Everything We Know About the Powerful Mid-Engine Beast The World’s Best Superyacht Shipyards Sign up for Robb Report's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.