By Alex Hammer For Dailymail.Com   Published:  02:32 EDT, 7 July 2023   |  Updated:  08:21 EDT, 7 July 2023      1.6k View  comments  Kamala Harris has once again engaged in a 'word salad' - in which she tried to explain the meaning of 'culture'. Harris's confusing comments came during the 2023 Essence Festival of Culture at the Caesars Superdome Friday, and serves as only the latest instance of the former San Francisco DA becoming tongue-tied during a public appearance. Aside from falling flat with the New Orleans crowd, the statement sparked renewed criticism into Harris's history of verbal gaffes. That scrutiny was largely seen on social media - as Twitter users flocked to their keyboards to lambaste the 58-year-old Oakland native, with several expressing astonishment over her 'empty' explanation. That said, it's not the first time Harris has been mocked for her strange choice of words. In February, the vice president was relentlessly roasted for a ranting speech at an April pro-abortion rally. In January she faced ridicule for yet another speech about Venn diagrams and school buses - a prevailing interest for the politician. Scroll down for video:  Vice President Kamala Harris has once again engaged in a 'word salad' during a speech Friday - in which she attempted to explain the meaning of 'culture' with a bizarre anecdote  Kamala tried to define the word "culture" today...And it went about as well as if a 9 year old had to give a book report on a book they didn't read...This is cringier than most Biden talks. pic.twitter.com/y5ZLq50dVs This time around, the internet was just as ruthless - with many equating Harris's comments to that of an AI Chatbot. Footage of the Friday flub - which came before performances from rappers like Lil Wayne and Megan Thee Stallion - showed her droning definition in full. 'Culture is - it is a reflection of our moment and our time. Right?' the Democrat said, while engaging in several of her trademark pauses. She continued: 'And present culture is the way we express how we're feeling about the moment, and we should always find times to express how we feel about the moment. 'That is a reflection of joy. Because, you know,' she added, before an audible pause and eventually breaking into laughter, 'it comes in the morning.' In another inexplicable comment, she added, 'We have to find ways to also express the way we feel about the moment in terms of just having language and a connection to how people are experiencing life. And I think about it in that way, too.' Posts on social media from statement quickly left onlookers befuddled, spurring comments from actors, political commentators, comics - and even the odd YouTuber. Academy Award winning actor James Woods - known for his roles in Once Upon a Time in America and being voice of Disney villain Hades in Hercules - tweeted: 'Artificial Intelligence Czar explains 'culture.'        Journalist Doug Powers, meanwhile, joked, 'Can somebody tell Kamala she shouldn't be eating every gummy in the package all at once?'  Conservative radio talker Chris Stigall agreed, writing of Harris: 'This is the emptiest human being alive. Sincerely. Empty. Vapid. Nonsense.'  Fellow commentator Liz Peek, a contributor for Fox News, tweeted: 'OMG - what is wrong with this babbling brook of a woman?' Dallas millionaire Jason Howerton, a prominent investor, equated Harris' verbal antics from something out of an American sitcom - à la The Office 'Kamala Harris is just Michael Scott in female form and Vice President vs. branch manager,' he joked, citing Steve Carrell's do-nothing character in the show. Comedian Tim Young, meanwhile, offered his own playful summation of Biden's second's statements.   'Kamala tried to define the word 'culture' today', he wrote, before quickly adding, 'It went about as well as if a nine year old had to give a book report on a book they didn't read. He then declared: 'This is cringier than most Biden talks.' YouTuber Ranting Monkey sniped: 'Kamala will go down in history as the most quotable woman to even be a woman who makes quotes about quotes a woman might quote.' In a less wordy response, Journalist Karen Townsend simply stated: 'Good Lord.' It's not the first time Harris has been mocked for her strange choice of words. In January, she famously faced ridicule for yet another speech about Venn diagrams and school buses - a prevailing interest of the politician Collectively, the series of posts have garnered tens of thousands of views, and hundreds of likes. The swift response comes mere months after Harris gave a rambling speech about  the importance of 'the moment' at a pro-abortion rally in Washington. 'So I think it's very important, as you have heard from so many incredible leaders for us at every moment in time and certainly this one, to see the moment in time in which we exist and are present, and to be able to contextualize it, to understand where we exist in the history and in the moment as it relates not only to the past but the future,' she said in a rambling statement in February. The month prior, she expressed her love for Venn diagrams and school buses for the umpteenth time in another strange address. 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group