Washington Commanders head coach Ron Rivera has kept his coaching staff intact over the previous two offseasons. His biggest move came one month before year three when he fired defensive line coach Sam Mills III and replaced him with Jeff Zgonina. On Tuesday, two days after the Commanders finished 8-8-1, Rivera fired offensive coordinator Scott Turner. Turner may not be the only vacancy Rivera needs to fill, as Jeremy Fowler of ESPN reported Thursday that the Tennessee Titans requested permission to interview defensive backs, coach Chris Harris. Harris just completed his third season with the Commanders after beginning his coaching career in 2013 as a quality control coach with the Bears. The 40-year-old Harris played eight years in the NFL and has received attention from other teams in the past two offseasons. With Rivera heading into year four and new ownership looming, perhaps Harris is looking for another opportunity. The #Titans have requested to speak with #Commanders defensive backs coach Chris Harris for a position on the defensive staff, per sources. Could be a defensive backs/pass-game coordinator-type role. Harris could also get DC looks around league, too. — Jeremy Fowler (@JFowlerESPN) January 12, 2023 Shane Bowen is Tennessee’s defensive coordinator and has no previous ties to Harris. Per Fowler, the Titans could offer Harris a defensive pass-game coordinator role in addition to his role coaching defensive backs. Washington’s defense rebounded in a big way in 2022. A big part of that growth was the development of cornerback Benjamin St-Juste and safeties Kamren Curl and Darrick Forrest, for which Harris deserves some credit.   Story originally appeared on Commanders Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season.