MARCH 9, 2023 — The National Center for Spectator Sports Safety and Security (NCS4) at The University of Southern Mississippi (USM) has partnered with industry professionals to form the 2023 Sports and Entertainment Technology Alliance. The Technology Alliance is a consortium of individuals and organizations committed to spectator safety and security excellence through innovation. Technology Alliance members work alongside practitioners and the NCS4 to explore how people, processes, and technologies can best contribute to safety and security challenges in a meaningful way. The Technology Alliance provides a collaborative environment in which practitioners and solution providers can produce resources, support education programs, and contribute to research initiatives,” said Daniel Ward, MBA, CEM, NCS4 Director of Training and Exercise. The 2023 Sports and Entertainment Technology Alliance members include safety and security practitioners and solution providers: Axis Communications, Esri, Microsoft, Nvidia, S2 Global, and Xtract One. Tech Alliance members partner with the NCS4 to educate venue managers, operators, and stakeholders on the latest technological developments in an effort to close capability gaps. They also contribute to training and education initiatives, provide research input, and participate in industry engagement and outreach opportunities. For additional details about NCS4’s Sports and Entertainment Technology Alliance, please visit ncs4.usm.edu. About NCS4 Established in 2006, the National Center for Spectator Sports Safety and Security (NCS⁴) is the nation's only academic center devoted to the study and practice of sports safety and security. The NCS4 is partially underwritten by grants from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The NCS4 mission focuses on three key pillars – Training and Education, Research, and Outreach. For more information about NCS4, call 601.266.6183 or visit ncs4.usm.edu.  About The University of Southern Mississippi The University of Southern Mississippi (USM) is a comprehensive public research institution delivering transformative programs on campuses in Hattiesburg and Long Beach, at teaching and research sites across the Mississippi Gulf Coast, as well as online. Founded in 1910, USM is one of only 146 universities in the nation to earn the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education’s "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very high research activity” designation, and its robust research enterprise includes experts in ocean science and engineering, polymer science and engineering, and large event venue safety and security, among others. USM is also one of only 36 institutions in the nation accredited in theatre, art and design, dance and music. As an economic driver, USM generates an annual economic impact of more than $663 million across the state. USM welcomes a diverse student body of more than 13,500, representing more than 70 countries, all 50 states, and every county in Mississippi. USM students have collected four Truman Scholarships and 37 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships, while also leading Mississippi with 27 Goldwater Scholarships, an honor that recognizes the next generation of great research scientists. Home to the Golden Eagles, USM competes in 17 Division I sports sponsored by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). For more information, visit usm.edu.