UNIT9 – previously named Production Company of the Year by the US and UK advertising industry – is further enhancing its transatlantic digital offering after hiring Media Ridha to fill the newly created role of head of digital, strengthening the company’s influence in the North American market. Formerly an executive producer at MediaMonks, Google and Jam3, Media adds further Web3 and Metaverse knowledge to UNIT9’s arsenal one year after the company launched its dedicated Metaverse Advisory Department (M.A.D).  She joins a global team that has been designing and developing cutting-edge digital experiences for the past 26 years - from a mind-ordering pizza app for Domino’s, to deep faking Lionel Messi, and pitting John McEnroe against AI digital avatars from his past. The formation of this brand new role signals UNIT9’s continued commitment to partnering with forward-thinking clients on digital-led world-firsts. Working as a conduit between UNIT9’s North America and EMEA teams, Media will work closely with UNIT9 US founder Michelle Craig, US director of production Mindy Lubert, and EMEA MD Rosh Singh.  Her focus will be on expanding the creative services offering within the North American market, leading on digital and tech-led projects. Mindy comments, “Media is without doubt a pioneering thinker in the digital space, her extensive expertise making her a strong addition to our team in North America. We are incredibly excited to see how her strategic thinking will extend into UNIT9’s creative services offering. She shares our passion for projects which have never been done before - which instantly makes her a UNIT9-er in our eyes.” Media adds, “ It was an easy and in some ways serendipitous decision; as our relationship with technology & culture continues to evolve so rapidly, UNIT9's maker mindset is perfectly set up to identify, explore and deliver on this new set of expectations and desires. I’m excited to expand our digital offering in North America where we can empower and deliver for our partners & make some serious waves.”