BRENTWOOD, Tenn. — Tractor Supply Company has again been named one of America’s Most Trustworthy Companies by Newsweek. This recognition, which highlights companies that customers, employees and investors consider to be honest and fair, comes on the heels of Tractor Supply’s inclusion on Newsweek’s inaugural list of America’s Greatest Workplaces for Women, a list of the top 600 companies in the United States for women in the workplace. “Our Mission and Values provide a blueprint for how we make business decisions, as well as how we care for each other, our customers and communities,” said Melissa Kersey, chief human resources officer at Tractor Supply. “This means we always do the right, honest and ethical thing, we respect others and live up to our responsibilities. As we continue to grow, our Values remain central to who we are as a company, and it’s a great honor to be recognized for our commitment to these important principles.” To create the Most Trustworthy Companies 2023 list, Newsweek, in conjunction with global research and data firm Statista, asked a sample of approximately 25,000 U.S. residents to rate companies they know in terms of three main public pillars of trust: customer trust, investor trust and employee trust. All companies headquartered in the U.S. with revenue over $500 million were considered in the study. The final list features 700 companies spanning 23 industries. Tractor Supply ranked 10th in the retail sector out of 61 companies. The complete 2023 list is available at: https://www.newsweek.com/rankings/most-trustworthy-companies-america-2023. White Paper: Five Steps to Boost Profitability Through Customer Stratification To generate the list of America’s Greatest Workplaces for Women, Newsweek partnered with Plant-A Insights Group to identify the top 600 large American companies that ranked the highest on criteria including compensation and benefits, work-life balance and proactive management of a diverse workforce. The research included a survey of more than 37,000 female employees who work in the U.S. at companies with at least 1,000 employees. Tractor Supply’s workforce is currently 49 percent female. Its Board of Directors has been female-led since 2014 and has achieved a Gender-Balanced Board rating, and the executive management team is 30 percent female. In addition to offering benefits to every Team Member working 10 hours or more a week, Tractor Supply provides paid parental leave for all full-time workers (salaried and hourly) and includes coverage for fertility treatment under all four medical plan options. Newsweek released America’s Best Workplaces for Women 2023 on March 8 to coincide with International Women’s Day. To view the full rankings, visit https://www.newsweek.com/rankings/americas-greatest-workplaces-women-2023. Earlier this year, Newsweek also identified Tractor Supply as one of America’s Greatest Workplaces for Diversity. Get our free newsletter Join thousands of other lumber and building material industry leaders and keep up with the companies, people, products and issues shaping the industry. Become a digital partner ... Download this 55-page, in-depth study by LBM Journal of industry trends in sales force compensation and benefits. See how your organization stacks up. View all ... View all ... LBM Journal is the leading media company serving lumberyards, building material distributors, wholesalers, manufacturers, and service providers. Copyright© 2024 LBM Journal. All Rights Reserved. Registration is now open for the LBM Strategies 2024 Conference