EXCLUSIVE: UK and US-based sales, production, and financing company Alliance Media Partners (AMP) have inked a deal with B-movie veteran Charles Band to represent his Full Moon Features film library, including titles such as Trancers and The Puppet Master. The Full Moon library also includes films like The Tourist Trap, Castle Freak, Baby Oopsie, Evil Bong, and SubSpecies. In addition to the company’s back catalog, AMP will also represent Full Moon’s latest productions, starting with Aimee: The Visitor. The pic follows a brilliant but misanthropic computer hacker who unlocks an incredibly advanced Artificial Intelligence program that appears in the form of a beautiful and seductive woman. More from Deadline Tori Kelly Says She's "Feeling Stronger" & "Hopeful" After Health Scare Toronto Sets Hayao Miyazaki's 'The Boy And The Heron' As Opening Film 'PAW Patrol' & Spinoff 'Rubble & Crew' Renewed By Nickelodeon The slate also includes The Primevals, directed by Academy Award-winning SFX vet David Allen (The Howling, Young Sherlock Holmes). The film debuted last week at Fantasia and has been 30 years in the making. Allen shot the film in 1994. He continued to tinker with it until his death in 1999. Band has now completed the pic, which stars Juliet Mills. “As a life long fan of Charles films, we are thrilled to be representing his incredible body of work,” said James Norrie of AMP. “It transpires that almost none of his films have been exploited outside of North America over the last 40 years, so we’ve got a lot of work to do.” Band added: “The Full Moon library contains some of the most unique and innovative independent genre entertainment of all time, and it’s important to me that these iconic movies are well-represented around the world. With AMP taking on a wealth of our key pictures, I know we’re in the best of hands, and I’m excited to see what the future holds for this partnership.” Best of Deadline SAG-AFTRA Interim Agreements: List Of Movies And Series Granted Waivers Hollywood & Media Deaths In 2023: Photo Gallery & Obituaries 2023 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.