Save up to 74% Subscribe to Kiplinger Debating heat pumps vs solar panels? Whichever one you choose, it just got easier to save on energy bills. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Which is best for energy savings? We put heat pumps vs solar panels to the test. Both can improve your home’s energy expenses, reduce your carbon footprint and crucially, save you money on your energy bills. Heat pumps can be used to both cool and heat your home. They use electricity to extract heat from inside your home and pump it outside in the warmer months. In the colder months, they extract heat from the air and pump it into your home to keep you warm. They produce so much energy that they can dramatically reduce your dependence on your energy supplier and can save you money on your energy bills, despite surging electricity costs. Meanwhile, solar panels generate electricity that can be used to help power the electrical systems in your home. And since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, Americans now have access to generous tax credits that can reduce the cost of these energy-smart home improvements.  Be a smarter, better informed investor. Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and more - straight to your e-mail. Profit and prosper with the best of expert advice - straight to your e-mail. Below, our colleagues at MoneyWeek put heat pumps vs solar panels in a head-to-head test. Recently, Wisconsin became the first state to launch the Home Efficiency Rebate (HOMES) program to help households save money on energy-saving home improvements, which includes insulation, air sealing and heat pumps that reduce whole-home energy consumption. Depending on your household income, you could receive a rebate for up to 100% of the costs (on up to $5,000) to purchase and install a heat pump or other energy-efficient home improvements. Many other states are expected to launch similar rebate programs soon. You can use this map to check your state’s progress toward launching its rebates. For more on federal, state and local heat pump incentives, read our comprehensive article on how heat pumps can help you save on home cooling and heating. Heat pumps also have several downsides: Since 2010, the cost of solar panels has fallen by more than 60%, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. There are lots of positives to installing solar panels. Despite both heat pumps and solar panels having hefty installation costs, solar panels will likely save you more money overall. Of course, you can save even more money and carbon by combining solar panels with an electric car, battery or heat pump. Ultimately, before choosing between a heat pump and solar panels, consider: Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up. Ben Demers manages digital content and engagement at Kiplinger, informing readers through a range of personal finance articles, e-newsletters, social media, syndicated content, and videos. He is passionate about helping people lead their best lives through sound financial behavior, particularly saving money at home and avoiding scams and identity theft. Ben graduated with an M.P.S. from Georgetown University and a B.A. from Vassar College. He joined Kiplinger in May 2017. 
Tax Credits
Trump’s vice presidential nominee has suggested enhancing the federal child tax credit. Here’s why it matters.
 
By Gabriella Cruz-Martínez

Published 19 August 24

 
If you have plenty of retirement savings but still feel like you need to limit your spending, you might need an integrated retirement plan.
 
By Barry H. Spencer, Registered Investment Adviser

Published 19 August 24

 Kiplinger is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 