Need a replacement for Mint? Make sense of your budget, get a grasp on your household spending, or check your credit score with the best apps we've tested for managing your personal finances. I write about money. I’ve been reviewing tax software and services as a freelancer for PCMag since 1993. Along the way, I took on reviews of other types of business and personal finance technology. Prior to that, I had spent a few years writing about productivity and entertainment applications for 8-bit personal computers (my first one was a Commodore VIC-20) as a member of the editorial staff at Compute!  
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Knowing where you stand with your money—your income, expenses, budget, investments, and credit score—is essential. PCMag has been covering apps for budgeting and managing personal finances for more than 15 years. If you commit to using a personal finance app, it can keep you up to date with everything you need to know about your money, including how to get out of debt. Many apps are free, and the rest cost a few dollars per month. We recommend three apps above all others: Simplifi, which is best for most people, Quicken Classic if you want to manage your money in more detail, and YNAB if you've tried budgeting before and it's never clicked for you. Read on for more about why these are the best personal finance apps, along with recommendations for other apps that might work even better for you. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 Quicken Simplifi has only been around for a few years, but we’re impressed by how fast it has grown into an excellent app. A concise and helpful dashboard gives you an overview of your finances. Innovative views of your data (watchlists, spending plans, and reports) keep you in constant sync with your finances. An exceptional user experience makes it a pleasure to use. Simplifi is not “Quicken-lite.” It's designed for a younger or less demanding demographic who wants to track financial accounts, keep an eye on day-to-day spending, and work toward savings goals without putting hours into poring over charts, lists, and reports. Quicken Classic has been helping people track their income and expenses for decades. It’s evolved into the most feature-rich personal finance application available today. Quicken Classic is desktop software with a companion app that shows you the financial information you need while away from your computer. The software earns its annual subscription fee by supporting every element of personal finance, including detailed account management, budgeting, bills, and investing. Quicken Classic is best suited to personal finance power users who don’t mind setting up an application on their desktop and doing some of their work there. The software comes in three versions so a beginner might like the Deluxe edition, and people who need more in areas like planning, investing, and small business money management could use Quicken Classic Business & Personal. Anyone comfortable working with Windows applications should find it easy to use. YNAB, which stands for You Need a Budget, is a unique personal finance app with a singular focus: to teach you smarter ways to spend your money so you can save more. It has a steep learning curve and requires regular attention, but the eventual reward is a flexible monthly spending plan that’s tailored to meet your goals. We included it because it’s built on a sound philosophy of financial responsibility and diligence that can change how you think about money. YNAB is designed for people who want more than personal finance apps typically give you in their budgeting tools, specifically. It's also only for people who are willing to put in hours studying the philosophy behind it and applying what they’ve learned to their relationship with money. You can’t assign dollars to budget categories before you have them in the bank, so the app works well for both W-2 employees and the self-employed. People have a better shot at being responsible with their money if they get a head start while they're young. Greenlight is the best app we've seen for kids (with adult oversight). It lets grown-ups supervise as kids learn to save, spend, give, and invest using a family debit card. The adult account owner can send money to their kids through the app and monitor their activity. Greenlight encourages children to save money, and you can optionally open a related savings account with a good interest rate to support that. It’s hard to imagine a family with kids that wouldn’t benefit from using Greenlight. While there is a subscription fee, it starts at $5.99 per month, which isn't too much. The company recommends it for ages 8 to 22, and how much they can do with their money increases with age. Teens can even be authorized to use a credit card and start building a good credit score. Younger children might enjoy the educational games. Monarch lets you do most of the tasks that people look for in a personal finance app, and it does so quite capably. It’s more expensive than others, but it has some of the best transaction management and budgeting tools we’ve seen. It has exceptionally thorough setup tools, making it easy to get started, and a clean, fast user experience. You can see your bottom-line numbers in a quick visit or stick around to dive deeper into your finances.  Monarch is a great choice for self-employed people because it lets you mark transactions as being tax-related, meaning you can keep track of your tax deductions easily. It's also a good choice for anyone who wants to zero in on their income and spending and see how today’s choices will affect their future financial stability—and growth. NerdWallet is our favorite free personal finance app. It arms consumers and small businesses with the tools, information, data, and insight they need to make financial decisions. This content takes two primary forms: articles and tutorials, covering all areas of personal finance. Like many of the best personal finance apps, NerdWallet lets you track your transactions, net worth, and cash flow, as well as learn about your credit score. NerdWallet is a good choice for people who want to not only just gauge their progress but also want free financial account management and credit score details without being constantly interrupted by ads for financial products like credit cards. PocketGuard is a jack-of-all-trades. It helps you manage multiple elements of your personal finances, including accounts and transactions, budgets, debt and your overall net worth, and bills and other recurring expenses. It stands out for having excellent support resources, and we like the way it handles every element of money management. PocketGuard is a good choice for people who have shied away from online personal finance because it seems overwhelming. It's also for people who have explored other personal finance apps before and have been dissatisfied with them. Rocket Money is a breeze to use, with useful notifications. Most of Rocket Money’s features require a subscription fee of at least $4 per month (you decide how much to pay). But the price is worthwhile because it gives you some things other personal finance apps don’t, like help with canceling subscriptions and bill negotiation—although with bills, Rocket Money charges 40% of the total amount you'll save in the first year of paying the reduced bill. Your credit score and daily financial transactions are part of the mix, too.  Rocket Money is precisely what many people want: an app where you pop in, get a quick look at money, and get out. The bill negotiation and subscription cancellation services may be especially helpful for people trying to reduce their monthly spending as part of a plan to get out of debt. And it's really good for people who want to track their money but don’t want to micromanage their finances or investments. Credit Karma started as an app to check your credit score, and it has evolved into a more well-rounded personal finance app. You can now track your net worth, manage income and expenses, monitor your debt, and pay bills, in addition to getting in-depth information about your credit score and why it is what it is. The app also provides banking services through a partnership with MVB Bank, Inc., Member FDIC, savings and spending accounts that may have advantages over your existing accounts. There’s really no reason not to sign up for Credit Karma because you get detailed information about your credit and net worth for free. It isn’t the best app to use if you want detailed information about individual bank and credit card transactions, though. You might think twice, too, if you don’t want to be interrupted frequently with targeted ads for financial products like credit cards and mortgages.  Empower is a great personal finance app for investment tracking and retirement planning. It has some unique investment tracking tools, including a personalized Investment Checkup, a withdrawal planner, and a retirement fee analyzer. It does try to sell you advisory services, though, but you may want them. It only has basic transaction management and budgeting tools, and there's nothing about your credit health. If you’re a casual investor starting to get serious about making better returns or want feedback on your retirement plans, we recommend trying Empower’s free tools. You may eventually need a more in-depth, personalized advisory service (maybe even Empower’s), but the site is a good jumping-off point for planning. The personal finance apps we reviewed all have robust security protocols. Most ask to connect to your bank accounts, credit card accounts, and other financial institutions. These apps download lists of transactions and balances from those accounts so you can see all the activity neatly in one place. To connect, you typically enter your login credentials for those financial sites, though you usually have to provide additional security information—which is good. Those that connect to your financial accounts use encryption and other safety measures to protect your login information. Many use third parties, such as Plaid, to make secure connections.  That said, you must also do your part to make the experience safe. Three key things you can do are: Use a unique username and password for your financial logins and the personal finance app. A password manager is indispensable. Enable multi-factor authentication wherever it's supported, especially for logging into the personal finance app and any connected bank accounts. Yes, it takes some extra time, but not nearly as much time as reconstructing your financial life if you’re the victim of identity theft. Keep all your details, such as your date and city of birth, private, because they can be used as authenticators to access financial data and accounts. Most personal finance apps are free or have a free tier of service. They typically make money by showing you targeted ads for financial products, like credit cards or savings accounts. NerdWallet is our favorite totally free app. It combines bank account imports and transaction management with excellent information about your credit score. It also has a huge amount of editorial content (including tutorials) on personal finance topics. NerdWallet is partly supported by ads, but they don’t get in the way. The app also tracks your net worth and cash flow as long as you connect to all your online financial accounts. It does show you your credit score and explain how it came to be, although Credit Karma (also totally free) does a better job here. Personal finance apps do a lot more than help you budget your money. Here are some of the other things they help you do. Connecting a personal finance app to all your bank accounts and credit cards allows you to monitor all your transactions in one place. So, instead of logging in to each of your banking apps once a day to see which charges and transactions cleared, you can do that from a single app. This single view may help you spot unauthorized transactions quickly, and the sooner you can alert your bank about that, the quicker the bank can cut off access to the account. After importing a batch of transactions from credit cards and bank accounts, most people spend some time cleaning up the data. Transactions need to be correctly categorized for their type of income (salary, rental income, interest, etc.) or expense (food, mortgage, utilities). Most apps guess the categories, but you can always change them and even split transactions among different categories. If you're conscientious about categorizing your income and spending, your personal finance app creates charts and reports that accurately summarize where your money comes from and where it goes. It's crucial for budgeting and when tax preparation time rolls around. Many apps also let you tag transactions, which can be a good way to keep track of similar expenses, like tax-related spending or medical expenses. The best personal finance apps have a dashboard. Sometimes, it's the only page you need because it has the most pertinent information about your finances, such as your account balances and pending bills. The charts and graphs on the dashboard give you an overview of your financial situation. They might tell you, for example, your income versus spending and how you're doing with your budget. Or you might see your net worth and credit score. Or your dashboard might show your customized financial goals and your progress at meeting them. In short, the dashboard gives you a quick look at your money and is a springboard to a deeper financial study. Being conscientious about your finances includes minimizing your expenses so that they are lower than your income. That’s the goal, anyway, and personal finance apps help you achieve it through budgeting. The mechanics of creating a workable budget are much easier than specifying your limits. It’s often guesswork until you’ve had a budget for several months and start seeing how your money comes and goes. For that reason, Quicken Classic and some other personal finance apps let you use past income and expenses as models. That way, you can answer the question, "How much do I usually spend each month?" and get an answer that relies on past data. Setting goals, such as establishing an emergency fund, isn't rocket science. With a personal finance app, you specify the amount you're trying to save and the target date for achieving it, and the application tells you how much you have to save every month to meet your goals. Some sites do more. NerdWallet and Monarch Money, for example, let you link your goals to the appropriate spending account, so your progress is automatically tracked. Most personal finance apps do not focus on retirement planning, much less lifetime financial planning—but Quicken Classic has tools to help you pay off your debts faster, plan for taxes, and establish a comprehensive lifetime financial plan. Empower also has some tools for retirement planning, although it quickly tries to sell you financial advisory services if you use those tools. Most personal finance apps let you record bills and bill payments, but you usually can't pay the bills through the app itself—unless you use Quicken Classic (additional fees apply) or use Credit Karma and pay through the company’s spending account. With Quicken Classic, you can set up automatic connections to online billers (Xcel Energy or Verizon, for example) or enter offline bills from suppliers who don’t bill you electronically, such as a dog walker or babysitter. Quicken alerts you when they're due, and you can mark them as paid in the software. You probably don't need advanced money management tools when you're away from your desktop or laptop. But when you're out spending money, you do need to know how much you have available. All the personal finance services reviewed here are available as mobile apps. Most have somewhat reduced functionality, but you can at least check your account balances, view transactions, add transactions, and see graphs related to your spending and income. One of the biggest benefits of using personal finance apps is that they help you learn more about your money and personal finance in general. NerdWallet, for example, has excellent articles and resources about everything from bankruptcy to investing. Apps that focus on credit scores and credit reports detail how and why different factors, such as how often you pay your credit cards on time, affect your credit score. NerdWallet has excellent debt payoff calculators that help you decide the best way to pay down debt while teaching you one way might be better than another, given the specifics of your situation. An excellent credit score is gold. It helps you get approved for a credit card, mortgage, car loan, and so on and minimizes the interest rate you pay. It's important to know your credit score at any given time, how it is calculated, and what you can do to improve it. Credit Karma, NerdWallet, and WalletHub do this, and they’re all free. Credit Karma is especially comprehensive. It pulls your credit score daily from two of the three major bureaus and gives you access to your credit reports. It also explains how different factors contribute to your credit score and what you can do to try and boost it. One of the ways you can improve your credit score is to use financial products—credit cards, mortgages—that have attractive interest rates and other benefits. NerdWallet, Credit Karma, and WalletHub all show you targeted ads for these kinds of products; it's how the apps can remain free (you sign up for a credit card, and the app gets a commission). Be warned, however, that frequently canceling credit cards and acquiring new ones negatively affects your credit score.  Do personal finance apps know your net worth? It depends on how much you tell them. You may only want a personal finance service for day-to-day income and expense management, budgeting, and goal setting. In that case, you don't need to tell the app about other assets and funds you have, whether it's a trust fund or a property. If there's an account you don't want to be reflected in your app, just leave it out. Which personal finance app is best? It depends on what you need at the moment. Most people will do best with Simplifi, which is one of the apps we recommend most highly. The other two are Quicken Classic and YNAB. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I write about money. I’ve been reviewing tax software and services as a freelancer for PCMag since 1993. Along the way, I took on reviews of other types of business and personal finance technology. Prior to that, I had spent a few years writing about productivity and entertainment applications for 8-bit personal computers (my first one was a Commodore VIC-20) as a member of the editorial staff at Compute!  After working at Lawson Associates, now Lawson Software, I switched my focus to accounting but learned that personal computer applications were more progressive and interesting to cover than mainframe solutions. So I served as editor of a monthly newsletter that provided support for accountants who were just starting to use PCs. I still ghostwrite monthly how-to columns for accounting professionals. From there, I went on to write articles and reviews for numerous business and financial publications, including Barron’s and Kiplinger’s Personal Finance Magazine. Read Kathy's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.