Job Title:   Associate Engineer – Digital Learning & Mobile Device – Project Hello World (Readvertised)   Organisation: Imagine Her Duty Station:  Seguku, Wakiso, Uganda Reports to: Lead Engineer Contract Period: 1-Year renewable   About Imagine Her: Imagine Her is a local non-profit working with communities to accelerate the power and potential of women, girls, and youth as active leaders and social entrepreneurs creating sustainable solutions within their communities.   We achieve this through three-pronged approaches as described below;   We are implementing Project Hello World which we seek to fill some vacant positions. Project Hello World provides educational resources and Internet connectivity to isolated and vulnerable communities. We do this by building solar-powered, outdoor Internet kiosks— so that underprivileged children and adults can educate themselves, communicate with others, and have a voice in the global community. To achieve this, we mobilize communities to build Hello Hubs which are solar-powered outdoor Internet kiosks, and state-of-the-art technology including high-quality solar panels, satellite connectivity, rugged, waterproof touch-screen screens, camera, and audio equipment. Hello Hubs are designed to withstand extreme outdoor weather and are energy-autonomous, which means that they can bring connectivity and education to even the most isolated communities.   Job Summary:  As an Associate Engineer- Digital Learning & Mobile Devices, you will work with us on curating and improving the learners’ experience of using devices we have at the hub. This involves working on tablets and laptops that they use and the content that they interact with while at the hub.   This role requires someone who is deeply passionate about learning and skilling at all levels from children to adults with experience delivering this process on digital media and in-depth knowledge of mobile applications.   Key Duties and Responsibilities: Mobile Device Management Digital Learning and Content: Hub Builds Training, Teaching & Reporting 
      (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Qualifications, Skills and Experience:    Personal Qualities We’re looking for someone who can get their sleeves rolled up and their hands dirty. Someone who is kept up at night trying to find answers to the world’s most intractable problems and willing to make some errors along the way. We need an individual willing to share what they know and learn as they go – not afraid to take a step back and think around a problem. Someone who is passionate about design, technology and has a great eye for innovation and problem-solving. We’re looking for an expert with drive and heart. And we need someone who can do all those things, in some of the hardest places, and still have a lot of fun.   Things We’ll Bring To The Table:   How to Apply: All candidates should send their updated CVs and cover letters as A SINGLE FILE to jobs@i-her.org   Deadline: 22nd June 2023 by 5:00 pm   We thank all applicants for their interest, however, due to the large volume of applications we receive, only shortlisted candidates will be contacted.   For more of the latest jobs, please visit https://www.theugandanjobline.com or find us on our facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UgandanJobline Job Title:   Electrical Controls Technician (Fresher A’ Level Jobs) Organisation: United… Job Title:   Psychiatric Nurse (Fresher US NGO Jobs) Organisation: International… Job Title:  Assistant Draughtsman    Organisation: Uganda Electricity Transmission Company…   Job Title:   Monitoring Evaluation Accountability and Learning (MEAL) Coordinator… Job Title:   MERLA/Data Analytic Specialist (USAID Project Positions) Organisation: RTI International… Job Title:  Finacle Administrator (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: DFCU Bank Duty Station: Kampala,… 

 For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com Popular Jobs 



 2 Entry-Level Oil & Gas Jobs – Assistant Coating Inspector – Sinopec (Uganda)
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More






 Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling) Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.
 

											4 min read										



Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More






 10 Sales Manager Job Positions – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More






 5 Accountant Jobs – Goodman International
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:   Accountant (5 Job Vacancies)     Organisation: Goodman International LtdRead More






 Administration Assistant/Front desk Officer NGO Jobs – Stromme Foundation (SF)
 

											4 min read										



Job Title:    Administration Assistant/Front desk Officer  Organisation: Stromme Foundation (SF) Duty Station:  Kampala,Read More




 Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More Job Title:   Accountant (5 Job Vacancies)     Organisation: Goodman International LtdRead More Job Title:    Administration Assistant/Front desk Officer  Organisation: Stromme Foundation (SF) Duty Station:  Kampala,Read More   