The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Reviewed By
									 Have a question for Emily Glover or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Emily Glover,
                                                    Lexie Pelchen
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Founded in New Jersey in 2009, Momentum Solar has grown to offer solar panel installation in 10 states. The company offers several payment or financing options along with information on additional money-saving incentives. With an A+ Better Business Bureau (BBB) rating, Momentum Solar has a good reputation in the solar industry. Momentum Solar was created in 2009 when the founders wanted a sustainable way to power a stereo system. Since those early days, Momentum Solar has evolved to offer solar panels, microinverters and solar batteries. Momentum Solar partners with Enphase, a company that makes high-tech microinverters and solar batteries.  Momentum Solar makes Forbes Homes’ list of the Best Solar Panel Installation Companies. The rankings are based on consumer reviews, available features and more. The company earned accreditation from the Better Business Bureau in 2015. Pushy or misleading sales tactics are leading to complaints among reviewers.  Featured Partner 1 Palmetto Solar BBB Grade A+ Financing Options Purchase, loan, PPA Number of States Covered 27 1 Palmetto Solar From Participating Partners 2 Blue Raven Solar BBB A+ Financing Options $0 upfront for 18 months Number of States Covered 21 2 Blue Raven Solar From Participating Partners 3 Momentum Solar BBB Grade A+ Financing Options Purchase, loan Number of States Covered 10 3 Momentum Solar From Participating Partners Momentum Solar is headquartered in New Jersey and offers solar panel installation in a total of 10 states. This includes Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas. Battery storage is available in five of those states: California, Florida, New Jersey, New York and Texas.  Following its 2021 partnership agreement with Enphase, Momentum Solar has expanded to offer solar battery storage solutions in addition to solar panel installation. Enphase solar batteries integrate with home systems to provide power at night, during cloudy days or when backup electricity is needed. Unfortunately, solar batteries from Momentum are only available in five states at this point.  Top-of-the-line microinverters are another benefit from Momentum’s partnership with Enphase. The highly efficient microinverters are installed with every solar panel, which helps convert power. When you design a solar panel system with Momentum, you can discuss and select which microinverters are best suited for your needs.  With the Enphase Enlighten app available for smartphones, customers can review the health and performance of their solar panel system. This includes managing energy-demanding appliances, monitoring the production of the solar panel grids and connecting with support if needed.  From the design process to the installation and beyond, Momentum connects customers with a dedicated support team member. This ensures the concierge is familiar with the project and can make for a more seamless experience.  Compare Quotes From Top-rated Solar Panel Installers Select a State To Get Started With Your No Commitment, Free Estimate Momentum distinguishes itself from some other solar panel installation companies by offering Tier 1 panels from several different manufacturers. “Tier 1” means that the panels meet a set of bankability criteria outlined by Bloomberg News Energy Finance, which goes to show that the panels are widely accepted in the industry.  Further, the panels offered through Momentum are monocrystalline photovoltaic (PV) panels. Monocrystalline panels are considered to be the most efficient on the market with a lifespan of 25 to 40 years.  Momentum Solar offers free quotes. Using the online tool, you start by entering your zip code to determine availability as well as what local utility incentives are available. When you decide to move ahead with Momentum, your dedicated customer service team member will be your primary point of contact, which simplifies the question-and-answer process for you. The best way to get a sense of what solar panel installation from Momentum Solar costs is by going through the quote process online, by phone or via Zoom. Momentum Solar offers highly efficient panels with greater than average lifespans, so costs can be expected to be on the higher end of the average range relative to other solar panels systems of the same size.  The professionals from Momentum Solar are well-versed in federal tax credits, such as the Investment Tax Credit, which provides homeowners with a 30% tax credit for solar energy systems installed through 2032. Sales reps can also help advise on local credits or incentives.  Momentum Solar has a few financing options in addition to cash payment:  Momentum Solar offers a 25-year warranty that covers parts and labor. This warranty helps protect your investment, including the solar panels as well as microinverters and solar batteries.  Best Solar Companies By State  Although the company has grown in its nearly 15 years, Momentum Solar is currently only available in 10 states and solar batteries are further limited to five states. The productivity of your solar panel system depends not only on the panels and accessories installed, but also on the specific conditions of your home and climate. Although solar panels can help you save on energy bills, most customers still have to pay for some electricity.  If you live in an area serviced by Momentum Solar and want top-of-the-line panels that you can reasonably expect to last for decades, then the company is certainly worth a look. Complaints are generally limited to communication issues and sales tactics rather than the actual performance of the solar panels or installation process.  
                Looking For Hassle-Free Solar Installation
             Find a network of trusted installers for solar system, solar panels and electricity needs. Find a solar panel installer today! To determine the best solar panel installation company ranking, the Forbes Home Improvement editorial team analyzed 20 major companies, with each company’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: BBB customer ratings and accreditation as well as ratio of complaints to reviews, Trustpilot and Google reviews were all analyzed for each solar panel installation company for 35% total.  The editorial team analyzed all solar companies’ support options including live chat (pre-sale), phone service, FAQ page, knowledge base, community forum and blog for a total of 12% of the total ranking. Compare Quotes From Top-rated Solar Panel Installers Free, No-commitment Estimates Nationwide availability of each solar panel installation company makes up 22% of the ranking. The more states a company covers (including D.C.), the more points it is awarded.  Extra important features like years in business, average warranty (in years) for products, whether financing is available, free energy consultation availability, home and commercial installation availability and vehicle installation availability, were considered collectively for a combined 20% of the total ranking. Other editorial judgments were offered for a variety of reasons, including improvement of customer rating and ratio of complaint to review scores from the previous year. Most homeowners can’t embark on installing solar panel systems on their own—which is where companies like Momentum come in. Although Momentum does not manufacture solar panels, they get them at lower costs and earn money on the sale. The company can also make money based on the financing option selected by the customer. Momentum has a close partnership with Enphase, which enables Momentum to offer a wider variety of parts—like batteries and microinverters—as well as services. However, Momentum itself is the installation company. Momentum Solar is headquartered in South Plainfield, New Jersey. Momentum was founded in 2009 and has been accredited by the BBB since 2015. Yes, Momentum Solar offers a 25-year warranty. Despite still paying an energy bill (albeit a lower one) and the significant upfront costs of solar panel installation, you can expect the solar panels to pay for themselves in time. Most customers break even on their solar panels within six to 10 years. From that point, the energy savings are purely money in your pocket. 
				Since graduating with a journalism degree in 2012, Emily has worked on staff and in freelance roles for a variety of publications, including Realtor.com, as well as local real estate companies. As a long-time member of the Forbes Home team, Emily has shared dozens of informative articles about topics ranging from pest control to solar incentives and much more.
			 
				Lexie is a deputy editor at Forbes Home and has over 6 years of professional experience as a writer and editor in the home improvement space. She's previously worked at sites such as HomeAdvisor and Angi (formerly Angie's List).
			