
					By Bruce Haring  pmc-editorial-manager 
	A change is gonna come in the way you can Vimeo. Engadget reports the company is ending support for its current TV apps on June 27th.  
	Going away is Vimeo support for Android TV, Apple TV, Fire TV and Roku devices. That means if you wish to watch on your TV screen,  you’ll have to stream from a mobile device using Apple AirPlay or Google Cast.   
	Vimeo hasn’t made a formal announcement on its plans. The details were first seen tucked away on a support page on the service’s website. Some of the apps themselves also gave an interstitial message.   
	The content purchased via Vimeo will still be available. Users just have to use AirPlay or Chromecast to watch it on TV.  

	








 
	 The help page states that “We believe that our users looking to view Vimeo videos will receive a better ongoing experience by casting via our mobile app, enabling customers to enjoy Vimeo content on their TV.”  Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	