In a report released today, Jason Bednar from Piper Sandler maintained a Buy rating on Merit Medical Systems (MMSI – Research Report), with a price target of $88.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $63.49. Bednar covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Align Tech, DENTSPLY SIRONA, and Henry Schein. According to TipRanks, Bednar has an average return of -10.4% and a 32.16% success rate on recommended stocks.  Merit Medical Systems has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $83.50. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $85.62  and a one-year low of $62.58. Currently, Merit Medical Systems has an average volume of 329.3K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 40 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is neutral on the stock. Most recently, in August 2023, Peterson Neil, the COO of MMSI sold 8,000.00 shares for a total of $543,280.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Merit Medical Systems (MMSI) Company Description: Merit Medical Systems, Inc. engages in the manufacture and market of proprietary disposable medical devices. It operates through Cardiovascular and Endoscopy segments. The Cardiovascular segment consists of peripheral intervention, cardiac intervention, interventional oncology and spine, and cardiovascular and critical care product groups. The Endoscopy segment integrates advanced non-vascular stent technology with balloon dilators, inflation devices, guide wires, procedure kits, and other devices that are used by gastroenterologists, endoscopists, pulmonologists, and thoracic and general surgeons. The company was founded by Fred P. Lampropoulos, Darla Gill, Kent W. Stanger and William Padilla in July 1987 and is headquartered in South Jordan, UT.
		   Read More on MMSI: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks