
  The North West Air Ambulance Charity (NWAA) has launched an appeal to support the service after being called out to 94 missions across Greater Manchester in just one month.
 
  Leading the appeal to raise the £12 million a year it costs to run the service is Dr Ed – the consultant doctor who saved young Henry’s life at the roadside after the toddler fell into the path of an oncoming car.
 
  Henry, who was almost two at the time of the accident, suffered multiple facial and skull fractures when the car ran over his head, and blood blocked his airways.
 
  When the helicopter crew and Ed arrived, they found him unresponsive.
 
  Dr Ed said: “Every second counts in cases like this and, without our rapid response, Henry might not have pulled through.”
 
  At the roadside, Dr Ed performed several emergency interventions, including a blood transfusion, an emergency anaesthetic and chest surgery so that Henry was stable enough to be transferred to hospital.
 
  Henry’s dad Rob, from Whitworth, near Rochdale, said: “The air ambulance crew saved our little boy’s life. We will be eternally grateful for their service, skills and expertise in being able to act so quickly.”
 
  Last year, the North West Air Ambulance Charity was called to a total of 2,834 lifesaving missions, including attending to 775 crashes, where the service brought the hospital to the patient.
 
  Dr Ed said: “Without the North West Air Ambulance Charity, and its kind supporters Henry would possibly have died and his family torn apart.
 
  “As costs continue to rise, it’s imperative that we raise the £12 million we need each year to provide the state-of-the-art service we pride ourselves on. We get no government funding, and we’re not part of the NHS, so we are turning to the general public who we serve and who value what we do.
 
  “Even the smallest donation will make a difference. With people’s donations, we can continue to be there for them and those closest to them, should they need us in an emergency.”
 
  To help save even more lives, the North West Air Ambulance Charity has increased its crew cover to 12 hours a day.
 
  Within the next year, its night car service will operate seven days a week.
 
  Before the end of the year, the charity also plans to carry blood on all three helicopters and its critical care vehicles.
 
  The charity is also establishing a patient after-care service with all of the North West trauma centres.
 
  The established working arrangement with Manchester Children’s Hospital was a key factor in Henry’s recovery.
 
  To make a donation you can visit: nwairambulance.org.uk. 
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.