We would like to send you notifications for the latest news and updates. 
                Fightful has been reporting all the latest breaking news from
                the wrestling world since 2016.
             
                Ads have played a big part in being able to keep our content
                free for all to enjoy.
             
                Please consider allowing ads on our site, and help continue to
                support Fightful.
             Sting returned to the ring for the first time in over five years at AEW Revolution when he teamed with Darby Allin in a cinematic street fight against Team Taz (Ricky Starks & Brian Cage).  The match was the vision of Darby Allin, who previously said he was involved in 90% of putting everything together.  Appearing on Drinks with Johnny, Allin provided further details on what went into shooting the cinematic street fight.  Allin began by discussing the coffin drop he hit at the end of the match. When asked how high the drop was, Allin said, "Shit, I don't know. I was feeling it. We shot that specific scene at three in the morning. I was up all night thinking about the match. All-day, I was just getting hype. Cinematic match, you get an adrenaline rush, come down, take a break, reshoot, adrenaline, come down, take a break. Up there, I was like, 'Alright, let's jump.' I'm so used to doing that shit all the time. At that rate, I knew it was the last thing I had to do in the match so I wasn't going to be walking out, I didn't care, I was going to lay it on the line." Allin went on to say that he likes to keep to himself a bit in AEW and will change in the boiler room, which is where he feels at his most creative.  When discussing his thought process and putting the match together, Allin said, "I was writing storyboards for months before the PPV. When I saw the location where we were filming, I took all these photos and was plotting everything in my brain. [I was] sitting in the boiler room, just coming up with all the shots. We had an awesome crew and Steve Yu, who helped direct it. When we're shooting it, I was running around and doing everything possible. 'I wanna shoot it like this.' When we got done with the cut, I'd run through a pane of glass, and go, 'alright, get the next shot.' I was doing everything and I felt on autopilot. I had an adrenaline rush and felt we could go all night and was on fire with it. The only thing that stopped me was when I had to throw the bat to Sting. I was like, 'Alright, I'm going to throw this down.' Tony [Khan] put it best, 'You know how the laws of physics work, right? That bat is going to come down and we don't know if it's going to break Sting's face.' First time in the whole shoot I started thinking like, 'What if I do break Sting's face and he can't finish the match?' He's the one who was like, 'I'm catching that bat.' Perfect catch, first try, beat the fuck out of everyone. I was on cloud nine." Allin said he was training with Sting before the match and they would bounce ideas off each other for the week-to-week story and the match.  He closed by saying, "Sting pulled me aside a week after and said, 'I want to let you know how much this means to me how easy you've made this for me.'" Sting previously revealed that AEW sent a ring to his house before the match to help him knock off any rust.  Sting and Allin were victorious in the bout. Allin has followed up the victory by consistently defending his AEW TNT Championship nearly every week on Dynamite.  If you use any of the quotes above, please credit the original source with a h/t and link back to Fightful for the transcription.