

Tuesday, March 28th 2023

Reporter: Aldi Geri Lumban Tobing

Translator: Nugroho Adibrata

85881
 
                        (Foto: Andri Widiyanto)
                        The Jakarta Provincial Government keeps synergizing with many parties, including private sector, in developing the city. One of them is the Buddhist Tzu Chi Indonesia Foundation which helped revitalize the groundbreaking of the Nurul Islam 1 Islamic Elementary School (MI), Kamal Muara, Penjaringan, North Jakarta.  Not only that, the Buddhist Tzu Chi Indonesia Foundation also participated in supporting village improvement programs such as the renovation of the Nurul Bahar Kamal Muara Mosque and houses belonging to residents who were no longer fit for habitation. In fact, at the same time, handing over groceries was also done to locals.  Jakarta Acting Governor, Heru Budi Hartono appreciated the Indonesian Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation for consistently carrying out humanitarian missions and making positive contributions to the welfare of the community.  "I would like to thank the Buddhist Tzu Chi Indonesia Foundation and other donors who have assisted in revitalizing Kamal Muara. Today, we'll see the location, provide staple food assistance, house renovations, and renovate houses of worship and madrasas," he expressed, Tuesday (3/28).  He explained proper housing is a basic need for every community and fulfills environmental aspects that are healthy, safe, harmonious, and orderly.  He assessed the Village and House Renovation Program is a good effort to help the community, especially economically disadvantaged families to repair their private homes.  "Hopefully, the construction of Nurul Islam 1 Madrasah Ibtidaiyah (MI), house renovation program, and renovation of Kamal Muara Mosque will be a step forward for beneficiaries to meet their basic needs and have a sustainable life," he expressed.  He also hoped that the Jakarta Government's collaboration with the private sector in this case the Indonesian Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation will continue to be sustainable. It is because the government's role alone is not enough to develop Jakarta and run development programs. Thereby, Therefore, the various stakeholders involved have made development run dynamically.  "Hopefully, this program can continue to be developed and expanded, thus people in other settlements also get the same benefits, support, and happiness," he stated.  As for the information, the Buddhist Tzu Chi Indonesia Foundation started a Village Improvement program in Kamal Muara in 2019. As for the construction of houses for residents who are unfit for habitation in Kamal Muara, 20 houses have already been built.  Today, keys were handed over to residents whose houses had been renovated with a total of five units, then laying the groundwork for the construction of Nurul Islam 1 MI, inspection of the Nurul Bahar Mosque in RW 04 and distribution of 2,100 Eid love packages to Kamal Muara residents   © copyright 2001 - 2024 All Rights Reserved 