

Saturday, September 23rd 2023

Reporter: Aldi Geri Lumban Tobing

Translator: Nugroho Adibrata

637
 
                        (Foto: Istimewa)
                       Jakarta Acting Governor, Heru Budi Hartono attended and opened the Generus Children Festival 2023 held by the Indonesian Islamic Da'wah Institute (LDII) Jakarta, at the Martial Arts Padepokan Minhaajurrosyidiin Islamic Boarding School, Cipayung, East Jakarta, Saturday (9/23).  The Acting Governor appreciated the participation of religious organizations in creating a quality young generation who could later contribute to society.  "We express our appreciation for the initiative in holding this festival. By so, LDII helps produce young people who are competent, professional, and have strong ethical moral values, and a commitment to contribute positively to society and the nation," he expressed, in the Jakarta Provincial Government's press release.  He also said that efforts would be made for the participants to be ready to face the challenge of a Golden Indonesia in 2045.  "Of course, we're very proud that this festival is part of efforts to encourage the nation's future generations to become more competent. As directed by the President, every component of society has a responsibility to support various government strategic programs, including the first efforts to achieve the vision of a Golden Indonesia 2045," he explained.  Aside that, LDII is as part of a social organization in Indonesia also has the aim of improving the quality of civilized life in society. So, the nation's next generation coulf become individuals with good character and virtue based on faith and devotion to God Almighty.  "I'm proud that this indicates that we have prepared a superior young generation. Thank you once again for your contribution to building the nation together," he added.  At the end of his speech, he opened the festival, thus it could run smoothly and in accordance with the targets to be achieved.  "By saying Basmallah, I officially open the festival. Welcome, I hope this togetherness will be a source of inspiration to continue fighting in building an Indonesian generation of excellence, quality, and character," he closed.  © copyright 2001 - 2024 All Rights Reserved 