Presently, there is no other candidate seeking this office. PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY, VA — Bob Weir currently represents the Gainesville district on the Prince William Board of County Supervisors. He is seeking reelection in November.  Weir won the seat in a special election in February. He is running unopposed in the general election.  Patch sent the following questionnaire to Weir and other local candidates.  Candidate Name Robert "Bob" Weir Age (as of Election Day)? 60 Town of Residence? Haymarket Position sought: Gainesville Supervisor Party affiliation Republican Family? Names, ages and any other pertinent details you wish to share Wife-Diane, Children-Samantha, Michael, Megan Does anyone in your family work in politics or government? Daughter is an employee of Roanoke County. Education Level BA in History Occupation, including employer and years of experience Regulatory and Intellectual Property Consultant for 37 years Previous or Current Elected or Appointed Office Current- Gainesville Supervisor Previously-Haymarket Town Council Campaign website Bob4PWC.com Why are you seeking elective office? I have been an advocate for the residents of Haymarket and the Gainesville District for more than two decades. The current level disdain for public input is unacceptable and threatens the residents' quality of life. I have a demonstrated record of achievement regarding the needs and desires of Prince William County residents and wish to continue working for them. We must effectively address the issues facing our county and counter threats posed by local government to our wallets and our quality of life. We must rein in uncontrolled development, profligate spending, and runaway tax increases while improving the quality of our children's education and making public safety a top priority. With more than thirty years of elected and government experience, I know what it takes to find solutions, navigate complicated issues, work with all parties involved, and get things done. I may not always tell you what you want to hear but I will always tell you the truth and what you need to hear. Courage is telling it like it is, not what is politically expedient to say. The single most pressing issue facing our (board, district, etc.) is _______, and this is what I intend to do about it. There is no single most pressing issue, rather a plethora of pressing issues from taxes to spending to ill-conceived development. The only way to address those issues is from the dais through change to past and present County practices. County officials must be held accountable for their actions and even more so for their inaction. How do you think local officials performed in responding to recent issues (i.e. the pandemic)? What if anything would you have done differently? Most local officials simply parroted their respective party lines and accomplished little except heightened spending on ineffective programs. What are the critical differences between you and the other candidates seeking this post? Presently, there is no other candidate seeking this office. Describe the other issues that define your campaign platform. Accountability and fiscal responsibility What accomplishments in your past would you cite as evidence you can handle this job? Having more than a decade in elected office I have demonstrated the ability to work across the aisle and arrive at fiscally responsible, effective solutions to local issues. The best advice ever shared with me was: Tell people what they need to hear not what they want to hear. What else would you like voters to know about yourself and your positions? The status quo is not acceptable in Prince William County. County spending and policies are driving people out of the county and making it unaffordable for many, particularly those on a fixed income. Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.