Daniel Bolton carried out the break-in while dressed as cartoon mouse Jerry, from the popular kids TV show Tom & Jerry Get the latest news from Bristol Courts straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Bristol Courts straight to your inbox We have more newsletters When staff investigated a break-in at a Bristol charity shop CCTV showed an intruder dressed as cartoon favourite Jerry the mouse from popular kids TV show Tom & Jerry, a court heard. And now 'Jerry' is behind bars. It turned out Daniel Bolton donned the costume after hiding as quiet as a mouse in the St Peter's Hospice outlet in Haymarket after staff had locked up, Bristol Crown Court heard. He left wearing the costume after trying to steal jewellery and triggering the alarm, the court was told. Bolton, 34, whose address was given as Privet Road in Bournemouth, pleaded guilty to theft from the shop in December. He also pleaded guilty to multiple burglaries elsewhere, fraud and handling stolen goods. READ MORE: Three men face trial for affray at Bishopston bar Judge James Patrick jailed him for five years and two months. He told Bolton: "You have turned to stealing from other people to fund gambling or drugs.  "You know that your offences were as a result of choices that you have made. You were the subject of suspended sentences." Ieuan Callaghan, prosecuting, said Bolton was caught by DNA after burgling the Bournemouth home of a disabled 88-year-old woman in December 2022. He went on to use a stolen bank card twice, but unsuccessfully tried a third time when the card was declined. Bolton asked for commercial break-ins in Bristol, and house burglaries in Dorset, to be considered. His handling stolen goods charge related to him spending £85 on a stolen bank card on a Christmas Day morning. Sign up to our court and crime newsletter here Mr Callaghan told the court it was in January when Bolton hid on the second floor of the St Peter's Hospice charity shop in Haymarket. After donning the Jerry the mouse costume he triggered the alarm and scurried off. Mr Callaghan said: "He was arrested in March. He asked police if they had seen footage of him dressed as a mouse." Bolton's barrister said his client had ditched a gambling habit only to go on and acquire a £1,500 weekly drug habit. He told the court Bolton had been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder following childhood trauma. The court was told he was receiving therapy and was "sorry and very remorseful" for what he had done. 