We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. The actress will play 26 characters in The Picture of Dorian Gray.  Succession star Sarah Snook has announced that she will front a one-woman show in the West End.  The actress, who played Shiv Roy on the HBO show, will assume the role of 26 characters in the Sydney Theatre Company’s adaptation of Oscar Wilde’s classic novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray.  Related: Succession star Kieran Culkin disagrees with show creator's interpretation of Roman's ending The production, which has been written and directed by Kip Williams, will premiere at the Theatre Royal in Haymarket on January 23, 2024, running until April 13. Performances are at 7.30pm from Monday until Saturday, with a 2.30pm matinee showing on Thursdays and Saturdays.  Wilde’s original novel, which was published in 1891, follows the titular character as he sells his soul in order to preserve his age and beauty. The logline for the latest adaptation reads: “Williams’ interpretation of beauty, excess, and a deal with the devil holds striking resonance in our current era, holding a mirror to 21st century society’s narcissistic obsession with youth.” “I am elated to return to the London stage in such an astonishing piece of theatre,” said Snook of the announcement. “From Oscar Wilde’s remarkable original text to Kip Williams’ stunning adaptation, this story of morality, innocence, narcissism, and consequence is going to be thrilling to recreate for a new audience. I can’t wait.” Related: Succession's Brian Cox "pretends" his character had a different ending “In creating a new piece of theatre like The Picture of Dorian Gray you always hope to have the opportunity to share it with a wider audience,” added director Williams. “I am so excited for theatre lovers in London to experience our show and am thrilled to have the extraordinary Sarah Snook bringing to life the many characters of Oscar Wilde’s remarkable story.”  Snook played Shiv in all four seasons of Succession, which recently concluded with a memorable finale. Despite its popularity, Brian Cox revealed that he hadn’t yet watched the series finale, explaining that he “never likes” watching himself on screen.  Tickets for The Picture of Dorian Gray can be purchased here.  Succession aired on HBO in the US, and is available on Sky Atlantic and NOW in the UK. Reporter, Digital Spy George is a freelance writer who specialises in Movies and TV. After graduating with a degree in Film Studies and Journalism from De Montfort University, in which he analysed the early works of Richard Linklater for his dissertation, he wrote for several websites for GRV Media.  His film tastes vary from blockbusters like Mission: Impossible and John Wick to international directors such as Paolo Sorrentino and Hirokazu Kore-eda, and has attended both the London and Berlin film festivals.
  Succession's Kieran Culkin lands exciting new role The Bear star joins Sarah Snook's new show First trailer for Doctor Who star's new movie Matthew Macfadyen felt "miscast" as Mr Darcy Succession star lands next TV role Sarah Snook's new movie debuts with 100% on RT  Sarah Snook lands major post-Succession TV role Succession star lands lead role in Star Trek show Succession's Sarah Snook lands next major project Succession star shares favourite line from show Brian Cox pans Joaquin Phoenix's Napoleon  Succession star's new movie confirms UK release DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.