 The ramp from Interstate 66 west to Route 28 South will be closed Friday night, Feb. 24, 2023, from midnight to 4 a.m., for overhead bridge work. Traffic will be detoured farther west to exit Route 29 (Lee Highway) Centreville, stay to the left and turn left at the traffic signal onto Route 29 North, and then follow signs to Route 28 South. Tonight, August 20, 2024, at 5 p.m., the Stafford County Board of Supervisors will meet at the county government center, located at 1300 Courthouse Road in Stafford, to deliberate on a significant land use amendment. UVA Prince William Medical Center in Manassas. UVA Health Prince William Medical Center was ranked as a high-performing hospital — the highest possible rating — in heart attacks by the… A Stafford man who killed another man in 2022 outside a county motel following a multiday drug binge was ordered Monday to serve 49 years in prison. Virginia Senator Tim Kaine (D) expressed disappointment that his opponent, Hung Cao (R), declined to participate in three scheduled debates and forums. Capital Water Polo is offering a Two Week Free Trial! Players MUST PRE-REGISTER at the following link: www.capitalwaterpolo.com/register TRIAL START DATE: Wednesday September 4th POOL LOCATION: The St James, 6804 Industrial Rd, Springfield VA 22151 Read More Submit your own Community Post here. Are you feeling overwhelmed, stressed, or anxious? Our dedicated team of mental health professionals is here to help you navigate life’s challenges and achieve emotional balance from the comfort of your home. We offer a wide range of services tailored to meet your unique needs, including individual therapy, couples counseling, group therapy, and specialized programs for anxiety, depression, addiction and trauma. At Peaceful Mind Solutions we have a team of therapists ready to help you with your mental health needs. We offer a free 15-minute consultation to ensure our services fit your goals. We used an evidence-based approach to work on the root of your problem so we can help you get the mental clarity you need.  At our practice, we use Cognitive behavioral therapy. (CBT) is a great way to identify negative thought patterns and then change them with the help of a therapist working through them each week. We will give you the tools to make lasting changes in your life so you can get back to living without roadblocks. Read More Submit your own Community Post here.