VIshal Gupta, General Manager, Novotel Mumbai Juhu Beach Vishal Gupta has been recently appointed as the General Manager of Novotel Mumbai Juhu Beach. Vishal, with 24 years of experience across four countries, comes with extensive knowledge of the hospitality industry and has got on board to oversee day-to-day operations and provide strategic guidance under his leadership. Having started his career as a Management Trainee with Marriott International by joining the pre-opening team of the 748-room Baltimore Marriott Waterfront in 2001, Vishal subsequently opened the 628-room St. Kitts Marriott and Resort on the island of St. Kitts & Nevis in 2003. He transitioned from Operations to Sales and from 2005 – 2012 he was in various Sales & Commercial roles in Maryland and Washington DC area with Marriott. He moved to India in 2012 and set up the Leisure division for Marriott’s National Sales Organization. Vishal joined Hilton Worldwide as a General Manager in 2015 and worked at the Hilton Garden Inn Trivandrum and Hilton Jaipur until 2022. An entrepreneur at heart Vishal took all his business and financial acumen, co-founded an Ed Tech platform in 2022, and ran it for 18 months. Vishal believes in having a growth mindset and is a constant learner. He completed a one-year Advance General Management Program in 2020-21 from IIM – Ahmedabad as well as he is a certified Executive Leadership coach from George Mason University, Virginia. He did his Bachelor of Business in Hotel Administration from the Hotel School, Southern Cross University, Australia and passed out from IHM Chandigarh in 1999. Vishal has the ability to self-motivate and work effectively with people; He is an Energetic self-starter with excellent management, leadership and team-building skills; an established track record of fostering key stakeholder partnerships and ownership relations through proactive clear communication. On the personal front, Vishal is an Edwardian and a Shimlite, he likes to read, travel and play golf. 
 Dusit Hotels and Resorts makes its Nepal debut The Soaltee Kathmandu: A Luxurious Oasis in the Heart of Nepal You must be logged in to post a comment.  Copyright 2013 Saffron Synergies Pvt Ltd  This will close in  0 seconds