MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our comparison partner, Policygenius Graham Ray is a senior writer whose knowledge of the insurance industry is bolstered by nearly four years of experience as a licensed life and health insurance agent. He has more than two decades of experience as a writer and editor in journalism, digital marketing and advertising. Graham has written everything from newspaper feature stories and corporate brand style guides to public relations campaigns. Kelly Larson is a senior editor with 14 years of experience creating and optimizing data-driven, reader-focused digital content. Kelly enjoys running and exploring the outdoors with his sons. Mark Friedlander is a property/casualty insurance industry expert and a national media spokesperson on home, auto, business and life insurance matters. He is also an expert on hurricane insurance coverage and Florida insurance matters. Kelly Larson is a senior editor with 14 years of experience creating and optimizing data-driven, reader-focused digital content. Kelly enjoys running and exploring the outdoors with his sons. Mark Friedlander is a property/casualty insurance industry expert and a national media spokesperson on home, auto, business and life insurance matters. He is also an expert on hurricane insurance coverage and Florida insurance matters. Our editorial team follows a strict methodology for reviewing life insurance companies. After reviewing 34 companies based on a rigorous set of criteria, we at the MarketWatch Guides team have selected the following seven providers as the best companies offering life insurance. However, we recommend consulting a financial advisor or licensed life insurance agent to determine the right coverage based on your individualized needs and budget.  Purchasing life insurance is a significant and highly personal decision, so choosing a company that offers efficient customer service and financial stability should weigh into your choice. A strong J.D. Power customer satisfaction score and a low NAIC complaint index could indicate how satisfied customers are with the company. Additionally, credit rating agency AM Best provides financial strength ratings to assess a company’s ability to handle its financial obligations, like paying death benefits to your beneficiaries. We based cost data on quotes collected for 35- and 45-year-old men and women without a history of tobacco use seeking $250,000 in coverage. Why We Picked Mutual of Omaha Founded in 1909, Mutual of Omaha has been providing life insurance coverage and returning dividends to its members for well over a century. In 2024, Mutual of Omaha maintains an exceptional financial strength rating from AM Best and earned an above-average score in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Individual Life Insurance StudySM in a testament to the strong reputation the provider holds within the industry. Mutual of Omaha offers 10-, 15-, 20- and 30-year policies with options to convert them to a permanent life insurance policy should you outlive the term. The provider also features plans that do not require a medical examination for those who prefer them. All-in-all, Mutual of Omaha is a strong provider that offers plenty of options for life coverage under the mutual insurer model, meaning policyholders also have an ownership stake — and access to dividends — in the company. The table below shows a more detailed look at how Mutual of Omaha performed in our 2024 life insurance study. You’ll also find average scores for all providers in our study to help you compare.  Mutual of Omaha offers the following coverage options: Cost To get an idea of how much Mutual of Omaha policyholders might pay, we based the rates below on a 20-year term policy for a tobacco-free applicant in good health who qualifies for the preferred rate class.  Why We Picked MassMutual Founded more than 170 years ago, MassMutual offers a wide range of permanent life insurance options, including a guaranteed issue whole life plan for applicants ages 50 to 75. Because this policy doesn’t consider your health when issuing coverage, it can offer a good option for people with pre-existing conditions who might have trouble getting approved for traditional plans. The company also offers universal life and variable universal policies, which combine the benefits of investment savings with the flexibility to adjust your premiums and coverage amounts. MassMutual also offers six different term life plans, rates well in customer service and has a robust selection of add-on riders for consumers who want to customize their coverage. For example, its waiver of premium rider allows you to stop paying your premium and keep your coverage if you become totally disabled. However, MassMutual requires consumers to get life insurance quotes for some plans over the phone. You can see a more detailed breakdown of how we rated MassMutual in our 2024 life insurance study. We’ve also provided average scores from all the providers in our most recent study as a point of comparison.  MassMutual offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost To give you an idea of what MassMutual policyholders might pay for term coverage, we based the rates below on a 20-year policy for a tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred health rate class.    Why We Picked John Hancock A household name in life insurance and financial services since its founding in 1862, John Hancock issued more than $4.8 billion in policies in 2023. For those who prefer convenience, applicants up to age 60 can apply for the company’s no-exam coverage through ExpressTrack, John Hancock’s accelerated underwriting program. Customers can get coverage in as little as three days — traditional underwriting can often take four to eight weeks.  John Hancock’s unique Aspire program designed for people with diabetes offers up to 25% in savings on life insurance and other rewards, adding value for people living with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes. The company also scored points in our ratings by offering four term life insurance plans, three universal life insurance policy options and coverage as high as $65 million, which may attract people with a high net worth. However, John Hancock does not provide online quotes or a traditional whole life policy option.  The table below provides a more detailed look at how John Hancock scored in our 2024 life insurance study. You’ll also find average scores from all providers in our study to see how John Hancock compares.  John Hancock offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost To determine how much John Hancock policyholders might pay for life insurance, we based the rates below on a 20-year term policy for a tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred health rate class.   Why We Picked Guardian Life Those who prefer in-person contact and individualized coverage plans may find benefits to working with Guardian Life, which issued more than $4.8 million in premiums in 2023. Guardian Life ranks well in some third-party industry rating methodologies. The provider holds the highest possible A++ financial strength score from AM Best and a low 0.09 National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) customer complaint index. These ratings, respectively, indicate a “superior” ability to offer financial protection for your loved ones if you die, and a strong customer experience that can give you peace of mind.  Guardian Life also stands out from competitors with its unique coverage for people living with HIV, offering up to $10 million in whole and term life coverage to qualifying applicants. Seniors may also consider Guardian Life as it is one of the few insurers we’ve reviewed that issues policies up to age 90. However, you must work with an agent to apply for a policy, and the company’s website offers little specific information on coverage options. For a more detailed look at how Guardian Life fared in our most recent life insurance study, see the table below. We’ve also included average scores from all providers in our 2024 study to help you compare.  Guardian Life offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost To estimate rates for a Guardian Life term life policy, we based the rates below on 20-year term coverage for a healthy, tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred underwriting class.  Why We Picked Nationwide Founded in 1926, Nationwide earned our pick as the best company for whole life insurance policies. The provider offers two whole life plans, Whole Life 100 and 20-Pay Whole Life, that allow flexibility to finish paying premiums faster and build cash value you can use during retirement. Nationwide also offers two term life policies – Life Essentials and Guaranteed Level Term – that allow customers to apply without taking a medical exam.  Nationwide policyholders can customize their plans with 12 riders, including a long-term care rider to pay for home health care, assisted living or other expenses if they develop a serious health condition. The median cost of a home health aide is more than $30 an hour, which adds up to more than $15,000 a year for patients who need 10 hours a week of care.  Current Nationwide customers can also receive discounts when they bundle life insurance policies with other products such as auto or homeowners insurance. This allows for easier policy management in one centralized location, rather than communicating with two different insurers. In the table below, you can see how Nationwide’s scores from our 2024 life insurance study break down in more detail. You’ll also find average scores from all 34 providers in our study for an easy comparison.  Nationwide offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost To give you sample rates for Nationwide plans, we based the monthly costs below on a 20-year term policy for a tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred health rate class.   Why We Picked Banner Life Banner Life stands out for offering seven options for its term life plan, including a 40-year term. Comparatively, most competitors we reviewed offer between three and five term length options. A 40-year term policy could allow 25-year-old policyholders considered in above average health to lock in low rates until age 65.  The company also earned points in our review for offering the option to convert all of its term plans to permanent coverage, and for having no-exam plans with up to $1 million in coverage. Banner Life has a very low complaint index score of 0.10 from the NAIC, indicating one-tenth the complaints expected of a company its size. State insurance departments reported just two confirmed customer complaints to the NAIC out of more than $1.3 billion in policy premiums issued by the company.  Banner Life offers life insurance in 49 U.S. states (excluding New York) and Washington, D.C. under its parent company, Legal & General America. Note that in New York, William Penn issues life insurance coverage under Legal & General instead of Banner Life.  Get a more detailed look at how Banner Life performed in our 2024 life insurance study in the table below. You’ll also find average scores from all 34 providers in our most recent study to give you a point of comparison.  Banner Life offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost After researching Banner Life’s rates, we estimated monthly premium costs based on a 20-year term policy for a tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred health rate class.   Why We Picked State Farm State Farm has established a reputation for financial stability and customer satisfaction over more than a century of providing insurance. The company has earned the No. 1 ranking on J.D. Power’s annual customer satisfaction survey for four straight years, scoring 843 out of 1,000 points in 2023. The survey polls real customers based on communication, interaction, price and product offerings to calculate its scores — which can help you assess a company based on customer experience. Based on our survey of 1,000 policyholders nationwide, more respondents chose State Farm as their life insurance provider compared to 32 other companies.  The company offers and guaranteed-issue final expense plans for applicants between ages 45 and 80 years old. Some final expense plans, such as the one offered by Fidelity Life, require that applicants are at least 50 years old. You can get quotes for term life insurance and the final expense plan in less than 30 seconds from the website. However, you must work with an agent to get quotes for most permanent life insurance plans. In the table below, you’ll find a more granular look at how State Farm peformed in our 2024 life insurance study. We’ve also included average scores from all providers in our most recent study to provide points of comparison.  State Farm offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost We were unable to obtain cost information for State Farm. You can contact the company for more details on pricing. We based cost data on quotes collected for 35- and 45-year-old men and women without a history of tobacco use seeking $250,000 in coverage. There are a variety of types of life insurance, but in general, you can think of plans as being categorized as either term or permanent policies. Term life insurance is one of the two main types of life insurance. Term life policies guarantee coverage for a set period, often from 10 to 30 years, known as the term. The insurance company will pay a death benefit to your named beneficiaries if you pass away during your specified term. Here are our top three term life insurance companies based on factors such as the number of term period options, cost and flexibility to convert to permanent coverage: Whole life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance that covers you for your entire life. Unlike term life insurance, whole life policies have a cash value component that can offer value while you are alive.  We determined our top picks for whole life coverage based on factors such as policy and rider options, cash value benefits and overall company financial stability: Universal life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance that allows you the flexibility to adjust your premium payments and death benefits. Two primary forms of universal life insurance are indexed universal life (IUL) — which ties your cash value investment to a stock market index — and variable universal life insurance, which offers greater investment flexibility but also exposes you to greater financial risk. No-exam life insurance allows applicants to forgo taking a medical exam, speeding up the process. Many companies offer no-exam options for term, whole and universal life policies. These policies can offer an alternative for applicants who might have trouble qualifying for a medically underwritten plan. Conversely, some providers allow the healthiest applicants to skip the medical exam based on assessing their personal medical and prescription information via modern technology. No-exam life insurance can be a good fit for the healthiest people who’d like to save time by skipping a medical exam or for people who need guaranteed issue coverage that doesn’t disqualify you for pre-existing health conditions. These providers offer solid policy options for applicants seeking no-exam coverage: According to a recent LIMRA study, 41% of U.S. adults say they don’t have sufficient life insurance coverage. To help you avoid joining their ranks and to simplify your decision, consider these four key factors before choosing the best life insurance company for your needs:  Direct customer experience can be a valuable tool for finding a reputable, trustworthy company. J.D. Power’s annual Customer Satisfaction Study scores companies on five factors based on responses from over 5,000 customers surveyed. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) compiles complaints filed with state regulators and calculates a complaint index. A company with a complaint index lower than expected based on its size indicates relative customer satisfaction.   The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a national organization of insurance regulators from all 50 U.S. states. Each state’s insurance department provides confirmed complaints to the NAIC, which then calculates the complaint index to compare companies across the insurance market. The complaint index is always 1.0, meaning a company with a complaint index of 0.50 has half as many complaints as expected based on its market share. Conversely, a company with a complaint index of 2.0 has twice as high an index as expected based on its market share. The primary purpose of life insurance is to be assured that your loved ones will have their financial needs taken care of if you pass away. Credit rating agency AM Best assigns financial strength letter grades — from A++ through D — to life insurance companies. The higher the grade, the more likely AM Best believes the company can meet its ongoing insurance policy and contract obligations, such as paying death benefits. Most companies offer two main types of coverage. Term life insurance provides coverage for a set number of years and is the most affordable type of policy. Permanent life insurance lasts your entire life and includes a cash value component to help build savings. The most common types of permanent coverage are whole life and universal life. Most companies also offer a selection of riders, which are provisions you can add to a standard policy that offers extra coverage. Each provider calculates rates slightly differently based on its underwriting standards. Simply getting the lowest price doesn’t necessarily mean getting the best coverage for you. You should choose a company that offers rates that are competitive with other providers offering similar products.  Each provider has its own underwriting guidelines and rating classes based on factors such as age, health, lifestyle and tobacco use.  Another factor to remember is that the entire buying process can take weeks or even months. Applying for more than one policy at the same time can complicate this process by requiring you to schedule multiple physicals or communicate with more than one agent. Our team recommends getting preliminary quotes from multiple carriers before applying for a policy with one particular company.  A variety of factors determine life insurance rates. We’ve analyzed quotes from several life insurance providers to determine the following average rates. Life insurance rates for males tend to be higher than rates for females based on our cost data.  Based on our data, female life insurance rates range from $16 to $33 for women under 35. Sample quotes were provided by secret shopping and are rates for nonsmoking individuals. Rates are accurate as of January 2024. As we researched the cheapest life insurance companies, these three providers stood out for their prices for term life insurance across a variety of ages for men and women, according to our cost data: Life insurance rates can vary dramatically from person to person — even for the same policy. Here are the major factors companies consider during the underwriting process: The MarketWatch Guides team recommends Mutual of Omaha and MassMutual as our top picks based on extensive research into life insurance providers. Mutual of Omaha is our top pick overall for no-exam coverage options and MassMutual for its permanent life options. However, the best life insurance for you will vary depending on your coverage needs.  Purchasing life insurance is a highly customized decision you should base on how much coverage you need and your financial situation. Term life insurance is more affordable than whole life insurance, but will only cover you for a set number of years. Whole life covers you for your entire lifetime and acts as an investment account that you can borrow from while you are still alive. If you need help deciding on a policy, we recommend speaking with a financial advisor and learning more in our term vs whole life insurance informational guide.  It is possible to outlive a term life insurance policy but not a permanent policy like whole life, since this type of insurance lasts your entire lifetime. If you outlive your term policy, you will usually have the option to renew at a higher rate or let your coverage lapse. Some term life policies allow you to convert the plan to permanent coverage during your policy term.  Life insurance covers the life of the insured person. In most cases, it pays a death benefit if the insured dies due to an accident or natural causes, like illness or old age. Life insurance typically does not cover suicide during the first two years of the policy, murder if the beneficiary was involved or in some cases, acts of war or terrorism. Additionally, if the insured was dishonest on the policy application, the insurer can cancel the policy without paying its death benefit. Our team researches and ranks life insurance companies using an in-depth scoring system that considers the factors most important to consumers like you. Our analysis includes a comprehensive review of each provider we feature based on available coverage, customizability, availability, customer service and company reputation. Here are the factors we take into consideration when rating life insurance providers: We use our rating system to compare and contrast each company against key factors to help us determine the best life insurance companies in the industry. To learn more, read our
full life insurance methodology
for reviewing and scoring providers.
AM Best Disclaimer If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Graham Ray is a senior writer whose knowledge of the insurance industry is bolstered by nearly four years of experience as a licensed life and health insurance agent. He has more than two decades of experience as a writer and editor in journalism, digital marketing and advertising. Graham has written everything from newspaper feature stories and corporate brand style guides to public relations campaigns. Kelly Larson is a senior editor with 14 years of experience creating and optimizing data-driven, reader-focused digital content. Kelly enjoys running and exploring the outdoors with his sons. Mark Friedlander is a property/casualty insurance industry expert and a national media spokesperson on home, auto, business and life insurance matters. He is also an expert on hurricane insurance coverage and Florida insurance matters. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.