 ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions, a leading provider of advanced security technology for the hospitality industry, together with ASSA ABLOY Opening Solutions, have announced the adoption of a range of innovative security access technologies by Hotel Marcel New Haven in Connecticut, USA. Part of the Tapestry Collection by Hilton and one of the few US-based properties set to earn LEED Platinum certification, Hotel Marcel New Haven’s installation includes VingCard door locks with Mobile Access by ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions, and an array of products by ASSA ABLOY Opening Solutions, each serving to enhance the property’s commitment to enhanced sustainability and guest safety.   By leveraging the resources of ASSA ABLOY Opening Solutions, Hotel Marcel New Haven adopted a custom-tailored approach to its security access needs that not only represents the industry’s latest standards, but that also lives up to the goal of creating an attractive and eco-friendly hotel environment. This included the installation of several industry-renowned ASSA ABLOY brands including Yale, McKinney, Rockwood, Norton Rixson, Pemko, Sargent, Securitron and Curries. With the installation of VingCard Essence and VingCard Signature RFID locks by ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions, Hotel Marcel New Haven benefits from advanced and reliable security access technology featuring the latest in data encryption to protect against the risk of unauthorized room access. In selecting both door lock models, property leadership also desired a minimalistic and sleek design that could seamlessly blend in and enhance the hotel’s stylish interior décor. Key to Hotel Marcel New Haven’s decision to work with ASSA ABLOY is the organization’s commitment to supplying security access technologies that are engineered with sustainability in mind. For example, VingCard door locks from ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions are backed by Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) certification. This advantage allows hoteliers to determine the environmental impact of a solution at every stage of the product life cycle and can be leveraged to add points towards various green building certification programs. The activation of Mobile Access by the property serves to simultaneously address modern guest service expectations while furthering the goal of operating a net-zero hotel. With Mobile Access, the property’s guests can avoid having to visit the front desk to be issued a plastic physical key, which  may end up being discarded as waste. Instead, guests can use personal devices as a convenient and eco-friendly means of gaining secure guestroom access that doesn’t involve having to wait for staff to be issued a key during check-in. “Today’s guests are more aware of the impact that their travels can have on the environment, so Hotel Marcel New Haven has gone to great lengths to create an experience that’s just as much about protecting natural resources as it is about ensuring an enjoyable stay,” said Bruce Becker of Becker & Becker Architects, a leading architectural design agency overseeing the sustainable development of Hotel Marcel New Haven. “The technologies play an important role in the property’s goal to reduce its environmental footprint, while their advanced security capabilities provide guests with both enhanced convenience and peace of mind.” Guest security is further enhanced with the ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions access management system which supports the property’s VingCard door locks. Using this system, hotel staff can instantly deactivate any keys that are suspected of being stolen or used inappropriately. Should a security-related event occur, hotel employees can leverage the access management system to gain instant access to door lock audits indicating who entered a specific room and when. Additional solutions implemented at the property by ASSA ABLOY include locks, exit devices and door closers from Yale, Norton Rixson and McKinney. Hotel Marcel New Haven’s security upgrade further consisted of implementing Rockwood door pulls and accessories, Pemko sliding track hardware and gaskets, Curries 707 series steel doors and frames, and solutions by Securitron. For more information about ASSA ABLOY Global Solutions and its comprehensive line of electronic in-room safes and locking solutions for the hospitality industry, please visit www.assaabloyglobalsolutions.com/hospitality. ,  You might also like: Receive daily leadership insights and stay ahead of the competition. Leading solution providers: Infinito BEONx Fairmas EHL Hospitality Business School IDeaS Copyright © eHotelier 2024