The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Medicare doesn’t cover all of your health care expenses when you turn 65. Medicare Part A covers 80% of inpatient care in hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, and Medicare Part B covers 80% of outpatient care and medically necessary supplies. For the 20% not covered by Medicare, you have the option to purchase Medicare Supplement (Medigap) insurance from a private insurance company. To determine the best Medicare Supplement providers, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on U.S. insurance companies that offer plans nationwide by the number of states in which they provide coverage, the number of types of plans they offer, how they rank in terms of their financial health by agencies like A.M. Best and more. Read on to see which providers made our list. 
                            Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
                         The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about Medicare Supplement providers that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our methodology for the rankings below. Ranked 42 on the Fortune 500 list, Humana is one of the largest health insurance providers in the U.S. and provides Medicare Supplement plans in most states, plus Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico. In addition to its wide Medigap plan offering, Humana provides plenty of plan perks like SilverSneakers, meal delivery, 24/7 call access to a registered nurse and vision and hearing services discounts. Humana’s additional insurance coverage reaches beyond what’s required of Medicare Supplement, such as cost sharing options for dental and vision care. Its premium prices tend to be higher than competitors, but Humana does provide a 6% discount on monthly premiums when beneficiaries enroll in a plan online (with the exception of those who reside in California, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Ohio). “Humana has a large infrastructure like many major carriers,” says John O’Hara, president of NJ Life & Health Insurance Group. “While Humana offers competitive initial enrollment rates, it has introduced several in-state Part G plans under different Humana entities, such as Humana Achieve, offering the same service at competitive rates to new beneficiaries. Older plans may no longer be offered to new customers, which may result in higher rate increases for the members in the older plan over time.” Read our full Humana Medicare Supplement Plans review. Since 1958 AARP (Association of Retired Persons) has remained true to its founding principles to enhance quality of life while promoting independence, dignity and purpose among older adults. AARP isn’t an insurance company, but it partnered with UnitedHealthcare—the largest insurer in the nation that covers over 43 million people in all 50 states and most U.S. territories—to provide Medigap coverage. Together, they provide Medicare Supplement plans for about 4.4 million U.S. adults that are enriched by AARP-specific perks and discounts. AARP by UnitedHealthcare has a highly-rated customer service and support team, equipped with experts to answer questions and help you find the best plan for you. “There’s something to be said for being the largest nationwide provider of health insurance and the various benefits that infrastructure supports. When it comes to UnitedHealthcare’s AARP plans, one such benefit is its prescription drug program because the provider partners with OptumRx. For many older adults, prescription drug costs are often what burden their budget—and sometimes unexpectedly.” Read our full review of UnitedHealthcare Medicare Supplement plan offerings. Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a collection of 34 independent and locally operated companies, which means its health insurance coverage options vary by state (including Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico). BCBS offers every type of Medigap plan in at least one location across the country, and its companies cover approximately 3.6 million Medicap beneficiaries nationwide. What’s more, various BCBS Medicare Supplement Insurance policies include benefits beyond what’s required of Medigap plans, such as fitness memberships, discount programs and more. “Information on the BCBS website indicates the company offers Medicare Supplement plans in all 50 states, but we couldn‘t independently verify this fact with each state’s company. We recommend contacting your local BCBS office for specific offerings and coverage available to you to see how well they may suit your needs. After all, it really comes down to the individual plan and its coverage details.” For over 200 years, Cigna has remained a global presence in the world of insurance. Its network of over 1.5 million relationships with health care providers, clinics and facilities allow the insurer to provide service to over 180 million customers in over 30 countries. Cigna is known for its competitive rates, dependable service and additional no-cost programs it provides to its customers. The company’s Health Rewards program helps beneficiaries accrue major savings—as much as 25%—on various health and wellness products and services, depending on their area. Free online quotes are also available for any of the Medigap plans Cigna offers. “I’m particularly drawn to Cigna’s Healthy Rewards program. Providing discounts (up to 25%) on fitness memberships, vision health services, hearing health care and holistic care like chiropractic and acupuncture, it gives its beneficiaries a number of opportunities to play an active role in their own preventative health care journeys. Encouraging such lifestyle components can not only help people live longer, but also further enjoy the time they gain.” Read our review of Cigna Medicare Supplement plans here. State Farm offers its customers competitively priced Medicare Supplement plan coverage through the State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company based in Bloomington, Illinois. The company, which has served customers in various insurance specialties since 1929, offers Medicare Supplement plans A,C, D, F, G and N, though certain plans are only available to customers who enrolled in Medicare prior to January 2020. Like most insurers on this list, State Farm Medicare Supplement plan availability varies depending on the state in which a customer lives.  “Most people likely associate State Farm with auto insurance, but its Medicare Supplement products are quality options if you reside within their coverage areas. Better suited for those looking for more straightforward coverage and not a lot of additional perks, these standardized plans serve thousands of beneficiaries nationwide and are accompanied by reliable customer service.” To determine the best Medicare Supplement providers for 2024, the Forbes Health editorial team evaluated all insurance companies that offer plans nationwide in terms of:
 We focused exclusively on providing general summaries of the companies, their range of insurance products and their reputations. In order to provide specific plan recommendations accurately, it’s important to take into account the ZIP code and demographic details of the individual seeking insurance coverage. To do so, we recommend using Medicare.gov’s plan finder tool or seeking the expertise of an independent, agnostic insurance agent. Medicare Supplement, also known as Medigap, is a private insurance policy purchased to help pay for what isn’t covered by Original Medicare (which includes Part A and Part B). These secondary coverage plans only apply with Original Medicare—not other private insurance policies, standalone Medicare plans or Medicare Advantage plans. Medigap plans generally don’t cover prescriptions, so you may want to consider enrolling in Medicare Part D, which specifically covers prescription drugs, or a Medicare Advantage plan that includes drug coverage. Medigap plans aren’t the same as Medicare Part C, also known as Medicare Advantage. While a Medicare Advantage plan can serve as an alternative way to get Medicare Part A and Part B coverage, Medigap plans only cover what Part A and Part B do not. Medigap supplement plans cover many out-of-pocket costs that may come with Original Medicare but aren’t covered by Part A or B, including: Additionally, some Medigap plans may also cover emergency medical services when traveling outside of the U.S. To be eligible for a Medicare Supplement plan, you must be enrolled in Original Medicare Part A and Part B, but not a Medicare Advantage plan. You must also be in one of the following categories: Companies could delay coverage up to six months for a pre-existing condition if you didn’t have creditable coverage (other health insurance) before enrolling in Medicare. Your Medicare Supplement open enrollment period starts the first month you sign up for Medicare Part B insurance at age 65 or older, even if you delayed enrollment because you had group health coverage. Medigap policies cannot be canceled by the insurance company even if your health status changes as long as you pay your premiums. If you’re already enrolled in a Medigap plan, you may apply to buy or switch plans. “Medicare supplements vary in rate by carrier and plan choice. Not every carrier offers all plans,” says Brandy Corujo, partner of Cornerstone Insurance Group in Seattle. Policy prices for Medigap are set by the individual insurance companies selling them. Companies set their premium pricing in one of three ways: Some factors that may also influence your rates include your location, gender, marital status and lifestyle (like if you smoke). Medigap plans are purchased through a private insurance company, and you pay a monthly premium for the policy directly to the company. Medigap policies can be purchased from any insurance company licensed to sell one in your state, but available policies and prices will depend on your state. Medigap plans only cover one person, so married couples need to purchase separate policies. The cost of Medigap monthly premiums varies depending on factors like the insurance company’s pricing policies and an individual’s age, sex and personal health history. For example, a person living in North Carolina might expect to pay the following prices for various Medigap plans, based on their location:  Keep in mind, Medicare Supplement plans C, F, and F high deductible are no longer available to purchase if you turned 65 on or after January 1, 2020. They may be unavailable to some people under age 65 as well. Medicare Supplement plans F, G and N are the most popular Medigap plans with the highest rates of enrollment nationwide. Which one is best depends on the beneficiary and their specific health care needs. By and large, Plan F is the most popular Medicare Supplement plan due to its coverage of more out-of-pocket Medicare costs than any other Medigap plan type. Plan F pays for Medicare deductibles, copays and other costs associated with Medicare-covered services, so beneficiaries don’t have to worry about out-of-pocket expenses. However, Plan F is no longer available to any Medicare beneficiary who became eligible for Medicare on or after January 1, 2020. Due to these enrollment restrictions, Plan G is becoming the most popular Medicare Supplement plan type for new Medicare enrollees, as it covers the most Medicare costs of any Medigap plan type that’s available to all beneficiaries. Plan G beneficiaries only have to pay their annual Medicare Part B deductible, after which the plan provides 100% coverage on all Medicare-covered medical expenses. Lastly, Plan N is the third most popular type of Medicare Supplement plan, which supports enrollees interested in a broad range of coverage. It provides 100% of Medicare Part B coinsurance costs, with the exception of $20 copays for office visits and $50 copays for emergency room (ER) visits. Beneficiaries are responsible for the annual Part B deductible as well. This structure keeps the cost of the plan relatively low despite risking higher out-of-pocket expenses, which is why it’s generally preferred by those with fewer medical needs. Medicare Supplement plans offer various attractive components, as well as other features that may not fit your needs or preferences. Consider both the benefits and drawbacks below before enrolling in a Medigap plan. Medicare Advantage plans serve as a substitute for Original Medicare, providing that same coverage plus additional benefits like prescription drugs coverage (Part D). Meanwhile, Medicare Supplement plans, or Medigap plans, are sold by private insurance companies to people enrolled in Original Medicare to help fill the gaps of that coverage. The 10 types of Medigap plans provide standardized coverage to beneficiaries nationwide and help pay for things like deductibles, coinsurance and copays. Because plan coverages are standardized, only monthly premium rates vary from provider to provider. It’s also important to note that Medigap policies don’t cover prescription drugs. A person enrolled in Original Medicare who wants prescription drug coverage needs to purchase a separate Medicare Part D plan in addition to any Medicare Supplement plan. Meanwhile, Medicare Advantage policies are only standardized in that they must provide the same benefits of Original Medicare, as the plans serve as a direct substitute. After this threshold is met, private insurance providers can add any number of benefits and services to a plan—prescription drugs, dental care, vision care and more—to make them more comprehensive (and often more expensive). Monthly premium rates for Medicare Advantage plans tend to vary dramatically based on location and the list of benefits provided. To find the right Medigap plan for you, first ask yourself: There are 10 standardized Medigap plans with letter names A through N. Plans with the same letter must offer the same basic benefit regardless of the insurance company providing the plan. For example, all Medigap Plan A policies provide the same benefit, but health insurance company premiums vary based on the way they choose to set rates—community-rated, entry age-rated or attained-age-rated.  Signing up for a Medigap plan is easy. “Medicare supplements may be bought through an agent or from the carrier directly,” says Corujo. Since there’s no annual open enrollment period, you may join at any time. To buy a Medigap policy, it’s best to enroll during your Medigap Open Enrollment period, which lasts six months. This period begins the first month you have Medicare Part B and are 65 or older. You can buy any Medigap policy sold in your state during this time, even if you have health problems. Follow the steps below to purchase your Medigap plan: The best time to enroll in a Medicare Supplement plan is during your initial Medigap Open Enrollment Period, the six-month window that begins on the first day of the month in which you’re both 65 or older and enrolled in Medicare Part B. This enrollment period is the only timeframe in which insurance companies cannot deny you a policy based on your health status or any medical condition. Attempting to enroll in a Medicare Supplement plan at any other time outside this enrollment period could result in penalty fees or denial of coverage. 
                Confused About Medicare Supplement Insurance Options?
             Find committed, licensed agents who work to understand your coverage needs and find you the best Medicare option. Click Get A Quote or call 866-402-0504 to speak with a licensed insurance agent today. On Medicare Supplement's Website Our list of the best Medicare Supplement providers offers a view of qualified, reputable insurance companies for older adults looking to enroll in coverage. These providers were reviewed and chosen based on details like their financial standing (A.M. Best rating), plan variance, additional benefits and geographical coverage areas. However, the best Medicare Supplement provider and plan for you is the one that best suits your specific health needs, preferences and location requirements. When choosing your plan, consider your budget, where you live, your annual health expenses, additional coverage you may need and whether coverage is available within your previously established network. The best Medicare Supplement plan for you ultimately depends on your specific health care needs, lifestyle and budget. With that said, Plan G is quickly becoming the most popular Medicare Supplement plan type for new Medicare enrollees. With the exception of Plan F, which is no longer available to all beneficiaries, Plan G covers the most Medicare costs of any Medigap plan type. Those enrolled in Plan G are only responsible for paying their annual Medicare Part B deductible. After that point, the plan provides 100% coverage on all Medicare-covered medical expenses. Plan F, Plan G and Plan N are the most popular types of Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare Supplement Plan F is the most comprehensive Medigap option available, providing beneficiaries with 100% coverage of Medicare-covered medical expenses after Original Medicare pays its portion. Medicare Supplement Plan G leaves beneficiaries responsible only for their annual Medicare Part B deductible, after which the plan provides 100% coverage on all Medicare-covered medical expenses. Finally, Medicare Supplement Plan N is considered a pay-as-you-go type of plan that tends to be the most affordable for beneficiaries who don’t require medical care regularly but are interested in emergency coverage. Medicare Supplement Plan F is considered one of the best Medigap plan types due to its comprehensive nature. However, only those who were eligible for Medicare on or before January 1, 2020, can still sign up for Plan F. People who already had or were covered by Medicare Plan F before January 1, 2020, are also able to keep their plan. All other Medicare enrollees must select another type of Medigap plan. All Medigap plans must follow both federal and state laws and regulations in terms of how they’re labeled and what coverage they provide. Most states have a government department of insurance or similar entity that helps ensure that all private insurance providers offering plans of a certain letter or type are meeting the standards set by Medicare and marketing the plans accurately. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) also conducts targeted market conduct examinations on an as-needed basis and responds to consumer inquiries and complaints to make sure all players remain compliant with Medigap plan standards. Whether a person purchases a Medicare Advantage or Medigap plan depends on their specific health care needs. Medicare Advantage plans serve as a substitute for Original Medicare, providing the same coverage plus additional benefits like prescription drugs coverage (Part D). Meanwhile, Medigap plans are sold by private insurance companies to people enrolled in Original Medicare to help fill the gaps of that coverage. Medigap plans provide standardized coverage and help pay for things like deductibles, coinsurance and copays. However, Medigap policies don’t cover prescription drugs. A person enrolled in Original Medicare who wants prescription drug coverage must purchase a separate Medicare Part D plan in addition to any Medicare Supplement plan. Technically, you can change which Medicare Supplement plan you’re enrolled in at any time after your six-month open enrollment period closes. However, unless the rate on your current plan is increasing and you want to shop for a lower rate, there’s generally few reasons to switch Medigap plans. You also aren’t guaranteed that your application for a new plan will be accepted outside your initial enrollment period. Medigap open enrollment is a six month period that begins when an individual enrolls in Medicare Part B and is at least 65 years old. Some states may offer additional enrollment periods. After the enrollment period ends, you may not be able to buy Medigap or you may purchase it for an increased price. The initial open enrollment period for Medicare Supplement coverage lasts six months, beginning the month you’re both at least 65 years old and enrolled in Medicare Part B coverage. You can try to enroll in a Medigap plan outside this open enrollment period as well, but you may be denied coverage or subject to medical underwriting, potentially leading to higher monthly premiums for the same benefits. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Tamrah Harris is a registered nurse and certified personal trainer through the American College of Sports Medicine. She is the founder and CEO of Harris Health and Wellness Communications. She has over 25 years of experience in healthcare with a passion for health education and wellness.
			 
				Alena is a professional writer, editor and manager with a lifelong passion for helping others live well. She is also a registered yoga teacher (RYT-200) and a functional medicine certified health coach. She brings more than a decade of media experience to Forbes Health, with a keen focus on building content strategy, ensuring top content quality and empowering readers to make the best health and wellness decisions for themselves.
			 
				Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized in high-level production and project management. As a freelance writer, Jessica has written across a range of topics, including entertainment, travel and career. Her work can be found in Variety, Paste Magazine, The Muse and on her personal website (jessicamlester.com).
			