Watch CBS News 
                          We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
                       
    By
                        
                      Matt Richardson
 
    Edited By
                        
                      Angelica Leicht
 
September 26, 2023 / 12:28 PM EDT
          / CBS News
         Not every insurance policy is worth your time or money. Some may be too expensive relative to the value provided, while others may not be as comprehensive as needed. Just like all financial products, you need to be judicious about which ones you pursue. There are sothers, meanwhile, that you'll need to be specifically qualified for. For insurance policies for seniors — like Medicare supplemental and long-term care — these qualifications are important to know and understand in order to be fully protected. Long-term care insurance can help pay for a variety of items, like caretakers in the home, assisted living facilities and nursing homes. But you'll need to be qualified to secure this unique type of coverage.  Learn more about your long-term care insurance options here by getting a free price quote. There is no one-size-fits-all list of qualifications for long-term care insurance. Instead, the specific qualifications that can make applicants eligible (or that can disqualify them) are specific to the insurance provider in question. So it makes sense to speak directly to a representative who can help you determine your exact eligibility.  "Since standards vary between different insurance companies, if one company denies you, it is possible that another company will accept you," longtermcare.gov, a federal website, notes.  There are generally no long-term care insurance age restrictions, meaning that any adult over the age of 18 can apply for coverage. However, the best time to apply for a long-term care insurance policy is typically in your mid-50s, according to AALTCI.org.  But eligibility really lies with each individual company. Some may take income or medical history into account, while others may not view those items as a qualifier one way or the other.  As such, it's helpful to understand what could disqualify you. According to longtermcare.gov, items that can prevent you from being able to purchase a long-term care insurance policy include all of the following: Conversely, if you don't fall into the above categories, you'll likely have a much easier time getting qualified. Simply answer a couple of easy questions here to determine eligibility and the price of a long-term care insurance plan. Long-term care insurance can help pay for caretakers in your home and facilities you may need to live in outside of it. But that's not the only benefit of this particular insurance. Here are two others to know: Long-term care insurance can provide valuable protection for seniors, but to get it, applicants will need to closely evaluate their qualifications. Start by reviewing the above list of common items that could disqualify you for a plan, but don't get discouraged either. Each long-term care insurance company operates differently, so do your due diligence, shop around and ask questions. By doing so, you'll better be able to build a comprehensive and cost-effective policy. You can easily get started online here now. Matt Richardson is the managing editor for the Managing Your Money section for CBSNews.com. He writes and edits content about personal finance ranging from savings to investing to insurance. 
© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.