Car enthusiasts will know his name and movie buffs will know his creations. Carl Casper, an innovative car designer and engineer, created custom-made touring cars for Hollywood like the "Batman Returns" Batmobile, Pontiac Firebird Trans Am known as K.I.T.T., from"Knight Rider," the van for the"A-Team," "The Fall Guy" pickup, "Street Hawk" and General Lee from the "Dukes of Hazzard." Casper also produced thousands of custom car shows across the country with the largest of those shows held at Louisville's Kentucky Exposition Center for 55 years. The annual eclectic mix of flashy vehicles and celebrities drew thousands of fans right up until Casper decided to retire after a final show in February 2017. For his contributions to the automobile world, The National Corvette Museum in Bowling Green, Kentucky has created an exhibit honoring Capser's legacy. "Custom Carisma: The Legendary Creations of Carl Casper" kicks off a year of special events at the museum celebrating Corvette's 70th anniversary. "Our team has been hard at work to deliver an incredible year of exhibits, events, and programs for our museum guests and members," said Sharon Brawner, president and CEO of the National Corvette Museum. "From the incredible custom creations of Carl Casper to the grand opening of our highly anticipated education gallery to the celebration of the Corvette's 70th Anniversary, we know that 2023 will be a year to remember at the National Corvette Museum with something for everyone." You may like:WEIRD HISTORY: Why Abraham Lincoln's family has its own parking spot in this Kentucky town Here's what to know about the Carl Casper exhibit at the National Corvette Museum. Casper's spectacular career and some of his most famous cars will be on display in the Custom CARisma: The Legendary Creations of Carl Casper exhibit, which opened March 10 at the National Corvette Museum, 350 Corvette Dr., Bowling Green. Cars on exhibit include "The Batman Returns" Batmobile, Turbo Shark Corvette, Popcorn Wagon, Young American Dragster, 51 Merc "Knight Cruiser,” Paddy Wagon, 32 Renegade Deuce and the Cosmic Invader. “It is a tremendous honor to be able to exhibit a variety of my custom car creations at the National Corvette Museum," Casper said. "Hopefully, this exhibit will encourage, educate, and inspire all attendees, especially today’s youth. May that spark enthusiastically motivate them to create new and innovative positive ideas, discoveries and inventions that will meet and far exceed all of our many future challenges." You may like:When is Thunder Over Louisville in 2023? Your guide to the Kentucky Derby Festival event For hours and admission information, visit corvettemuseum.org. Reach features reporter Kirby Adams at kadams@courier-journal.com. This article originally appeared on Louisville Courier Journal: Legendary Creations of Carl Casper exhibit at National Corvette Museum Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp Monday defended and doubled down on his signature Medicaid program — the only one in the nation with a work requirement — further dimming chances the state could adopt a broader expansion of the taxpayer-funded low-income health plan without a work mandate any time soon.  Georgia Pathways requires all recipients to show that they performed at least 80 hours of work, volunteer activity, schooling or vocational rehabilitation in a month to qualify.  Kemp touted the program Monday during a panel discussion that included Georgia Department of Community Health Commissioner Russel Carlson and Insurance and Safety Fire Commissioner John King. Prominent conservative Judge Michael Luttig pledged to vote for Kamala Harris for president, saying Donald Trump "corrupted America’s Democracy." President Joe Biden on Monday took his first flight aboard the modern VH-92A helicopter that serves as Marine One after years of delays to the program to replace the aging aircraft that carry the president and vice president.  Biden boarded the Sikorsky-made helicopter after arriving on Air Force One in Chicago where he is speak Monday evening at the Democratic National Convention.  The maiden presidential voyage carried him from O’Hare International Airport to the parking lot of Chicago's Soldier Field, often used as a landing zone for presidential travel. Plain ol’ boneless, skinless chicken breasts are given new life in this sheet pan meal by Caroline Chambers. The chicken gets coated in a honey mustard sauce, then topped with buttery breadcrumbs that get crunchy and browned in the oven.  1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Many cookbooks are organized by ingredient — like pasta, chicken and veggies.  “I think every single person is daunted by the idea of putting dinner on the table every single night for their family,” Chambers says from her home in Carmel Valley, California.  If you have an hour, Chambers shows how you can make Salmon Crunch Bowls or Sheet Pan Sesame-Ginger Steak & Peppers. A four-person crew for SpaceX's Polaris Dawn mission arrived in Florida on Monday ahead of their Aug. 26 launch to space for a mission that includes the first privately managed spacewalk, a risky endeavor only government astronauts have done in the past.  The crew - a billionaire entrepreneur, a retired military fighter pilot and two SpaceX employees - neared the end of more than two years of training for the mission, in which they will venture out of their Crew Dragon capsule in Earth's orbit for a tethered spacewalk.  The mission will be a major first test of SpaceX's new astronaut spacesuits and marks the latest risky, high-stakes commercial milestone that Elon Musk's space company is looking to clinch on the billionaire's path to eventually building colonies on Mars. Former Rep. George Santos, R-NY, faces at least two years in prison after pleading guilty in federal court to wire fraud and aggravated identity theft Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. If you snuggle before sleep, you have science on your side. Investors are counting down to a speech by Jerome Powell at Jackson Hole that could reset rate-cut expectations. Monday's supermoon is the first of four this year.  During a supermoon, the full moon inches a little closer than usual to Earth.  A supermoon isn’t bigger, but it can appear that way in the night sky, although scientists say the difference can be barely perceptible. Top US diplomat Antony Blinken on Monday said Israel has accepted a US "bridging proposal" for a Gaza truce deal, and pressed Hamas to do the same, having earlier said the talks may be the "last opportunity" for a ceasefire.It came as Israel and Hamas traded blame for delays in reaching a truce deal. Russia on Monday ruled out any peace talks with Ukraine despite Kyiv raising pressure on the Kremlin by claiming fresh advances in its offensive into Russian territory.- Zelensky urges peace talks -
Zelensky confirmed that he had not informed his allies in advance of the Kursk offensive, claiming that they would have opposed it. President Joe Biden is expected to be the final speaker of day one of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. Former president Barack Obama is one of the speakers scheduled to take the stage on the DNC's second day. Here's what to know about his speech. As the DNC kicks off in Chicago, the presidential campaign of Vice President Kamala Harris announced a new, bilingual WhatsApp channel targeting Latino voters. The governor of Connecticut declared a state of emergency after historic flooding left two dead and prompted hundreds of evacuations over the weekend, he said in a Monday news conference. Tech tycoon Mike Lynch, one of six people missing from a sunken yacht off Sicily, had been trying to move past a Silicon Valley debacle that had tarnished his legacy as an icon of British ingenuity.  Lynch, 59, struck gold when he sold Autonomy, a software maker he founded in 1996, to Hewlett-Packard for $11 billion in 2011.  The fraud allegations resulting in Lynch being fired by HP's then-CEO Meg Whitman and a decade-long legal battle. The Republican-led House Committees investigating whether to impeach President Joe Biden released their long-awaited report on their findings, arguing President Biden has committed impeachable conduct but deferring to the full House on whether to pursue a formal impeachment. Want to hunt for black holes, but lack access to a mountaintop observatory or deep-space telescope? There’s an app for that—and you can help out astronomers by using it. Developed by the Dutch Black Hole Consortium, an interdisciplinary research project based in the Netherlands, Black Hole Finder is a free program available both on smartphones […]