Ally Financial (ALLY – Research Report) received a Hold rating and a $34.00 price target from Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg yesterday. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $27.45. According to TipRanks, Goldberg is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 8.6% and a 54.57% success rate. Goldberg covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Capital One Financial, State Street, and Zions Bancorporation National Association. Currently, the analyst consensus on Ally Financial is a Hold with an average price target of $32.86, representing a 19.71% upside. In a report released on April 17, J.P. Morgan also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $28.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on Ally Financial’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending December 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.44 billion and a net profit of $278 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $2.33 billion and had a net profit of $652 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Ally Financial, Inc. is a holding company, which provides digital financial services to consumers, businesses, automotive dealers, and corporate clients. It operates through the following segments: Automotive Finance Operations, Insurance Operations, Mortgage Finance Operations, and Corporate Finance Operations. The Automotive Finance Operations segment offers retail installment sales contracts, loans and leases, offering term loans to dealers, financing dealer floorplans and other lines of credit to dealers, warehouse lines to companies, fleet financing, providing financing to companies and municipalities for the purchase or lease of vehicles and equipment, and vehicle remarketing services. The Insurance Operations segment focuses on finance protection and insurance products sold primarily through the automotive dealer channel, and commercial insurance products sold directly to dealers. The Mortgage Finance Operations segment consists of the management of a held-for-investment consumer mortgage finance loan portfolio, which includes bulk purchases of jumbo and LMI mortgage loans originated by third parties. The Corporate Finance Operations segment provides senior secured leveraged cash flow and asset-based loans to mostly United States based middle market companies focuses on businesses owned by private equity sponsors with loans typically used for leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, debt refinancing, restructurings, and working capital. The company was founded in 1919 and is headquartered in Detroit, MI.  Read More on ALLY: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks