
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)  DUBLIN, March 6, 2023 /PRNewswire/ --The 'global bioremediation technology and services market 2022-2028' report has been added to  ResearchAndMarkets.com's  offering.
  MARKET OUTLOOK  A report by the publisher states that the global bioremediation Technology and services market highlights a CAGR of 8.70% during the forecast period 2022-2028.The factors that contribute to the market's growth include increasing research and development activities and the use of bioremediation in various industrial applications such as mining, petroleum, farms, nuclear waste, etc. However, the long duration of the process and its dependence on environmental factors can impede the market's growth. The process starts with isolating the polluted site conditions, identifying the resident microbes, analyzing the catabolic activities, and then developing the field plan. The slow recovery time of the process is a major challenge for the market.  REGIONAL OUTLOOK  The global bioremediation technology and services market is studied across regions such as North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa, and Latin America.Globally, Asia-Pacific is expected to be the fastest-growing region in the forecast period. The rapidly increasing population, urbanization, industrialization, and increased oil and gas consumption have resulted in a high number of contaminated sites throughout the region. As a result, there is an increasing need for bioremediation technology and services.The market has grown due to increased public awareness of the negative effects of these polluted areas and government regulatory compliance to protect the environment. Government initiatives, as well as the participation of public-private partnerships for bioremediation-related activities, are projected to fuel market expansion during the forecast period.  COMPETITIVE OUTLOOK  The established players in the global bioremediation technology and services market include Verde Environmental Group, RT Environmental Services Inc, Sevenson Environmental Services Inc, InSitu Remediation Services Ltd, Aquatech International, Altogen Labs, Xylem Inc, Carus Corporation LLC, Probiosphere Inc, Soilutions Ltd, Regenesis Remediation Solutions, Sumas Environmental Services, Sarva Bio Remed LLC, Ivey International Inc, and Drylet Inc.Founded in 1994, Regenesis Remediation Solutions is a global leader in the research and development of technology and service-based solutions. These solutions include bioremediation, bioaugmentation, sorption, immobilization, in situ chemical oxidation, etc., for soil and groundwater remediation at contaminated sites. The company's end-users include engineering, construction and environmental consulting firms worldwide.  Key Topics Covered:    1. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market - Summary    2. Industry Outlook  
  3. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Type  3.1. in Situ Bioremediation3.2. Ex Situ Bioremediation  4. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Technology  4.1. Phytoremediation4.2. Biostimulation4.3. Bioaugmentation4.4. Bioreactors4.5. Fungal Remediation4.6. Land-Based Treatments  5. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Service  5.1. Soil Remediation5.2. Wastewater Remediation5.3. Oilfield Remediation5.4. Other Services  6. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market - Regional Outlook    7. Competitive Landscape    8. Research Methodology & Scope    A selection of companies mentioned in this report includes     Altogen Labs   Drylet Inc   Probiosphere Inc   Regenesis Remediation Solutions   Xylem Inc   Insitu Remediation Services Ltd   Rt Environmental Services Inc   Sarva Bio Remed LLC   Sevenson Environmental Services Inc   Sumas Environmental Services   Verde Environmental Group   Soilutions Ltd   Aquatech International   Ivey International Inc   Carus Corporation LLC   For more information about this report visit  
  About ResearchAndMarkets.com  ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.
  Media Contact:  
Research and MarketsLaura Wood, Senior Manager[email protected] 
For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716
Logo:  
SOURCE Research and Markets
MENAFN06032023003732001241ID1105718174   MARKET OUTLOOK  A report by the publisher states that the global bioremediation Technology and services market highlights a CAGR of 8.70% during the forecast period 2022-2028.The factors that contribute to the market's growth include increasing research and development activities and the use of bioremediation in various industrial applications such as mining, petroleum, farms, nuclear waste, etc. However, the long duration of the process and its dependence on environmental factors can impede the market's growth. The process starts with isolating the polluted site conditions, identifying the resident microbes, analyzing the catabolic activities, and then developing the field plan. The slow recovery time of the process is a major challenge for the market.  REGIONAL OUTLOOK  The global bioremediation technology and services market is studied across regions such as North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa, and Latin America.Globally, Asia-Pacific is expected to be the fastest-growing region in the forecast period. The rapidly increasing population, urbanization, industrialization, and increased oil and gas consumption have resulted in a high number of contaminated sites throughout the region. As a result, there is an increasing need for bioremediation technology and services.The market has grown due to increased public awareness of the negative effects of these polluted areas and government regulatory compliance to protect the environment. Government initiatives, as well as the participation of public-private partnerships for bioremediation-related activities, are projected to fuel market expansion during the forecast period.  COMPETITIVE OUTLOOK  The established players in the global bioremediation technology and services market include Verde Environmental Group, RT Environmental Services Inc, Sevenson Environmental Services Inc, InSitu Remediation Services Ltd, Aquatech International, Altogen Labs, Xylem Inc, Carus Corporation LLC, Probiosphere Inc, Soilutions Ltd, Regenesis Remediation Solutions, Sumas Environmental Services, Sarva Bio Remed LLC, Ivey International Inc, and Drylet Inc.Founded in 1994, Regenesis Remediation Solutions is a global leader in the research and development of technology and service-based solutions. These solutions include bioremediation, bioaugmentation, sorption, immobilization, in situ chemical oxidation, etc., for soil and groundwater remediation at contaminated sites. The company's end-users include engineering, construction and environmental consulting firms worldwide.  Key Topics Covered:    1. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market - Summary    2. Industry Outlook     3. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Type  3.1. in Situ Bioremediation3.2. Ex Situ Bioremediation  4. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Technology  4.1. Phytoremediation4.2. Biostimulation4.3. Bioaugmentation4.4. Bioreactors4.5. Fungal Remediation4.6. Land-Based Treatments  5. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market Outlook - by Service  5.1. Soil Remediation5.2. Wastewater Remediation5.3. Oilfield Remediation5.4. Other Services  6. Global Bioremediation Technology and Services Market - Regional Outlook    7. Competitive Landscape    8. Research Methodology & Scope    A selection of companies mentioned in this report includes   For more information about this report visit     About ResearchAndMarkets.com  ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.   Media Contact:   Research and MarketsLaura Wood, Senior Manager[email protected]  For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900 U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716 Logo:   SOURCE Research and Markets MENAFN06032023003732001241ID1105718174 MENAFN06032023003732001241ID1105718174 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN