Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, shows off new Strider balance bikes to kindergarteners at the Longwood school on Friday, Jan. 27, 2023. Adrenaline Bike Works donated nearly $6,000 to implement a program teaching students how to ride bikes in P.E. class. Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, helps a student put on a helmet to learn how to balance on a Strider balance bike at the Longwood school on April 5. Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Wekiva Elementary School kindergarteners work on their bike skills in physical education class as a new part of their curriculum on Wednesday, April 5, 2023. Seminole County mandated hairnets with helmets at the beginning of the program before switching to disinfectant. Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, demonstrates how to ride a Strider balance bike at the Longwood school on Wednesday, April 5. Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Wekiva Elementary School kindergarteners work on their bike skills in physical education class as a new part of their curriculum on Wednesday, April 5, 2023. Seminole County mandated hairnets with helmets at the beginning of the program before switching to disinfectant. Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel Wekiva Elementary School kindergarteners work on their bike skills in physical education class as a new part of their curriculum on Wednesday, April 5. Seminole County mandated shower caps with helmets at the beginning of the program before switching to disinfectant. Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, shows off new Strider balance bikes to kindergarteners at the Longwood school on Friday, Jan. 27, 2023. Adrenaline Bike Works donated nearly $6,000 to implement a program teaching students how to ride bikes in P.E. class. Chad Hendricks, Wekiva Elementary School’s physical education teacher, stood in front of dozens of excited, fidgety kindergartners and posed the question: “Would you rather be riding bikes, or would you rather be sitting on the couch?”The following display of raised hands and chatter made it clear that many would choose the former, proving that even the youngest students are capable of making decisions in their best interest. But now they have help, thanks to a new program that teaches Wekiva Elementary kindergartners how to ride a bike in P.E. class.All Kids Bike, a national organization aiming to add cycling skills to kindergarten curricula, has landed at the school with 24 Strider balance bikes, helmets and pedal-conversion kits. The program, the first of its kind in the Orlando area, was funded by a donation of nearly $6,000 from Adrenaline Bike Works in Mount Dora.
Wekiva Elementary School kindergarteners work on their bike skills in physical education class as a new part of their curriculum on Wednesday, April 5, 2023. Seminole County mandated hairnets with helmets at the beginning of the program before switching to disinfectant.“My generation, we stayed outside and used our bikes and skateboards. We ran around until the streetlights came on,” Hendricks said. “Now, there are so many other things to do with the internet, video games and iPads. There’s been a dramatic decrease in children riding bikes.”The number of children ages 6-17 who rode bicycles regularly (more than 25 times a year) decreased by more than a million from 2014 to 2018, according to data from the Sports & Fitness Industry Association.Meanwhile, screen time has skyrocketed, at least in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic.“Our statistics show that children ages 2-10 spend an average of 18.6 hours per week in front of a screen,” said Lisa Weyer, the executive director of All Kids Bike. “As screen time increases, obesity increases. The more sedentary we are, the unhealthier we are. This could impact many factors with the health, physical and mental well-being of children.”
Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, shows off new Strider balance bikes to kindergarteners at the Longwood school on Friday, Jan. 27, 2023. Adrenaline Bike Works donated nearly $6,000 to implement a program teaching students how to ride bikes in P.E. class.To counteract this trend, All Kids launched in 37 schools across the U.S. in 2018, then grew in subsequent years and reached an additional 379 kindergarten classes in 2022. To date, the program is in about 930 schools across all 50 states.

“We want schools to incorporate this into their P.E. curriculum just like they would dodgeball or anything else,” Weyer said. “When children learn how to ride a bike, it builds their confidence and independence. Teachers are telling us that children are better focused in the classroom.”Implementing the program at Wekiva Elementary took teamwork and support, especially in overcoming logistical challenges.“The setup and all that stuff is challenging. When you watch the training videos, it looks like a dream. They’re in the gym, they have unlimited time,” Hendricks said. “I joked that, ‘By year three, we’ll have it down pat.'”
Chad Hendricks, the physical education teacher at Wekiva Elementary School, helps a student put on a helmet to learn how to balance on a Strider balance bike at the Longwood school on April 5.During the first day of instruction, some children came in as competent cyclists, while others obviously had never touched a bike. At that time, Seminole County also mandated that students wear shower caps under their  helmets before later doing away with that requirement in favor of disinfectant spray.The minor headaches become worth it when considering the benefits students receive.“This is something new that I haven’t seen a school do before,” said Principal Keaton Schreiner. “This helps students learn about balancing and agility and how their motor functions work. What better way to do that than learning how to ride a bike?”
Wekiva Elementary School kindergarteners work on their bike skills in physical education class as a new part of their curriculum on Wednesday, April 5. Seminole County mandated shower caps with helmets at the beginning of the program before switching to disinfectant.Certain areas of Florida have managed to implement cycling into their curriculum already, including a handful of schools in the Daytona Beach and Crystal River areas. A map on the All Kids Bike website shows that Orlando’s Lancaster Elementary and Catalina Elementary, as well as Triangle Elementary in Mount Dora, are fundraising to bring bikes to more Central Florida schools.“Our whole goal is to teach every child in America how to ride a bike in their P.E. class,” Weyer said. “Our hope is that we get into all the public school systems in the United States.”Find me @PConnPie on Twitter and Instagram or send me an email: pconnolly@orlandosentinel.com. For more fun things, follow @fun.things.orlando on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. The following display of raised hands and chatter made it clear that many would choose the former, proving that even the youngest students are capable of making decisions in their best interest. But now they have help, thanks to a new program that teaches Wekiva Elementary kindergartners how to ride a bike in P.E. class. All Kids Bike, a national organization aiming to add cycling skills to kindergarten curricula, has landed at the school with 24 Strider balance bikes, helmets and pedal-conversion kits. The program, the first of its kind in the Orlando area, was funded by a donation of nearly $6,000 from Adrenaline Bike Works in Mount Dora. “My generation, we stayed outside and used our bikes and skateboards. We ran around until the streetlights came on,” Hendricks said. “Now, there are so many other things to do with the internet, video games and iPads. There’s been a dramatic decrease in children riding bikes.” The number of children ages 6-17 who rode bicycles regularly (more than 25 times a year) decreased by more than a million from 2014 to 2018, according to data from the Sports & Fitness Industry Association. Meanwhile, screen time has skyrocketed, at least in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our statistics show that children ages 2-10 spend an average of 18.6 hours per week in front of a screen,” said Lisa Weyer, the executive director of All Kids Bike. “As screen time increases, obesity increases. The more sedentary we are, the unhealthier we are. This could impact many factors with the health, physical and mental well-being of children.” To counteract this trend, All Kids launched in 37 schools across the U.S. in 2018, then grew in subsequent years and reached an additional 379 kindergarten classes in 2022. To date, the program is in about 930 schools across all 50 states. “We want schools to incorporate this into their P.E. curriculum just like they would dodgeball or anything else,” Weyer said. “When children learn how to ride a bike, it builds their confidence and independence. Teachers are telling us that children are better focused in the classroom.” Implementing the program at Wekiva Elementary took teamwork and support, especially in overcoming logistical challenges. “The setup and all that stuff is challenging. When you watch the training videos, it looks like a dream. They’re in the gym, they have unlimited time,” Hendricks said. “I joked that, ‘By year three, we’ll have it down pat.'” During the first day of instruction, some children came in as competent cyclists, while others obviously had never touched a bike. At that time, Seminole County also mandated that students wear shower caps under their  helmets before later doing away with that requirement in favor of disinfectant spray. The minor headaches become worth it when considering the benefits students receive. “This is something new that I haven’t seen a school do before,” said Principal Keaton Schreiner. “This helps students learn about balancing and agility and how their motor functions work. What better way to do that than learning how to ride a bike?” Certain areas of Florida have managed to implement cycling into their curriculum already, including a handful of schools in the Daytona Beach and Crystal River areas. A map on the All Kids Bike website shows that Orlando’s Lancaster Elementary and Catalina Elementary, as well as Triangle Elementary in Mount Dora, are fundraising to bring bikes to more Central Florida schools. “Our whole goal is to teach every child in America how to ride a bike in their P.E. class,” Weyer said. “Our hope is that we get into all the public school systems in the United States.” Find me @PConnPie on Twitter and Instagram or send me an email: pconnolly@orlandosentinel.com. For more fun things, follow @fun.things.orlando on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel