The past year has been challenging (aren’t they all?) for  the food & beverage industry, but it has produced some unique results — the  likes of which haven’t been seen for years, if ever. For example, 2022 was the  first time in memory that bottom-line net income decreased for the aggregate  Top 100© food & beverage companies, and that’s despite an 11.5% sales increase  for the whole group. Two other remarkable developments from 2022 show up in the  Top 100: 20 companies reported sales increases of a billion dollars or more, a  high-water mark we don’t believe we’ve ever seen; and nine processors lost  money in 2022 — unfortunately, we have seen that before. It seems we’ve used the headline “Sales Up, Volume Down”  several times in recent months, but this is the first time we can clearly  assess the damage to profitability. Two things seemed to weigh heavily on food & beverage  profits in 2022: inflation, which pumped up dollar sales but depressed volume,  and earlier, often “transformative,” acquisitions that weren’t working out. Last year in this report — which was based mostly on 2021  financial reporting — not one of the top 33 companies reported a net loss. This  year there are two: Molson Coors and J.M. Smucker. Expanding the lens to all  100 companies, only four had losses in 2021; this year, from 2022 financial  reports, there are nine (the others are Constellation Brands, Maple Leaf Foods,  TreeHouse Foods, B&G Foods, Utz Brands, Monogram Foods and SunOpta). What does all this say about the financial health of the  food & beverage industry? “In 2022, inflationary pressures compounded by continued  supply chain disruptions took a toll on profitability in the consumer packaged  goods arena,” says Erin Lash, consumer sector director at Morningstar Inc.  (www.morningstar.com). “While firms pursued multiple tactics to blunt the hit  (including raising prices, extracting excess costs and forgoing unnecessary  spending), it was insufficient to entirely stem the degradation in margins. “However,” she continues, “consumers proved resilient, and  at a high level, volumes held up better than expected based on the degree of  pricing that firms took. This result likely reflects increased and more timely  investments in consumer-valued innovation and marketing made by firms across  the industry.” Margins weren’t degraded for everybody, counters Gary  Stibel, founder and CEO of New England Consulting Group (www.necg.net). “The smart food and beverage money has had a great run over  the past two years as input cost inflation and supply chain shortages opened  the door for pricing that had been closed tight by the retail trade,” he says.  “Those few companies that underperformed did so because they were worshipping  at the altar of backward-looking price elasticity studies and simply couldn’t  raise prices fast enough to catch up with cost increases.” Before we get too deeply into this, let us explain our Top  100 numbers — which you won’t find anywhere else. Most of this analysis will  focus on the first two columns of the table on pages 30-31. Those columns  represent only the sales of value-added/consumer-ready foods and beverages  produced in U.S. and Canadian factories. Total, global sales of these companies  are in column three. Most of the figures are from calendar year 2022, but a few  companies have different fiscal years. There were some stars in 2022, and it was especially the  big, blue-chip companies that did well. The biggest increase, more than $5.8  billion, belonged to No. 2 Tyson. And the animal protein processor also earned  a handsome $3.2 billion last year. However, its fiscal year ended Oct. 2 of  last year, and the months since have not been kind. In the first six months of its fiscal 2023 (through April 1  of this year) Tyson’s sales were up a scant 1% and the second quarter had a  surprise $49 million operating loss instead of the billion-dollar operating  profit of the previous year’s second quarter. Perennial No. 1 PepsiCo did not lag far behind Tyson’s 2022  jump, with a gain of more than $5 billion. “To put it simply, 2022 was a  stellar year for PepsiCo,” Chairman and CEO Ramon Laguarta wrote in his  introduction to the annual report. “Despite another dynamic period that  featured difficult and unpredictable circumstances, we delivered our best  financial performance in a decade.” Soda rival Coca-Cola Co. did well, too: North American sales  (the figure we focus on) were up nearly $2.5 billion, keeping pace with the  company’s global sales growth of $4.5 billion. At Nestle USA and Canada (sales up $2.6 billion), Purina  PetCare was the largest contributor to organic growth, with most of the  momentum coming from premium brands Purina Pro Plan, Purina One and Fancy  Feast. Sales in coffee grew at a high single-digit rate, with growth across  brands and geographies, supported by a strong recovery of out-of-home channels.  Sales of Starbucks products grew by 12.9% to nearly $3.9 billion. Bimbo Bakeries North America gained nearly $2 billion,  although helped in part by a strengthening of the Mexican peso vs. the American  dollar (we do the currency conversions). General Mills’ North American retail  sales jumped $1.1 billion, with smaller but noteworthy increases in pet foods  and North American foodservice helping to offset a 16% decline in international  sales. Lactalis American Group took a leap of $1 billion thanks to the  end-of-2021 purchase of Kraft Heinz’s cheese business. Also gaining more than $1 billion in revenues were JBS USA,  Smithfield Foods, Hormel, Pilgrim’s Pride, Mondelez, Saputo, Hershey, Dairy  Farmers of America, Perdue, Grassland Dairy and Cal-Maine. Cal-Maine is worth some focus. Remember when the price of  eggs hit $6 a dozen early this year? The country’s biggest egg producer nearly  doubled its revenue, and its profits went up sixfold in its fiscal-year 2023,  which just ended June 3. Sales were $3.146 billion, a record for the company.  Another record was the $757 million in net income, up from $132 million in  FY2022 and far from the paltry $2 million profit in FY2021. For most of the red-ink companies, the main drags were  recent acquisitions that have tanked. New England Consulting’s Stibel observes,  “A few [companies] were shortsighted, making ill-advised acquisitions,  launching costly innovation and simply failing to read the tea leaves when it  came to vegetable meat analogs and other short-term fads.” That’s the story for J.M. Smucker, Constellation Brands,  TreeHouse Foods and Maple Leaf Foods. Smucker jumped into pet foods in 2015, paying $5.8 billion  for the $2.3 billion in sales of Big Heart Pet Brands, the former Del Monte business  that included Gravy Train and Meow Mix. With the later acquisition of Rachel  Ray Nutrish, pet foods represented nearly a third of Smucker’s sales. But profits  were hard to come by, and most of the business was sold early this year to Post  Holdings for $1.2 billion. Constellation’s problem was a marijuana addiction. Starting  in 2018, it began buying into Canadian cannabis-products maker Canopy Growth,  investing billions on the assumption that cannabis quickly would be legalized  nationally in the U.S. and just as quickly might supplant a significant share  of Constellation’s beer and alcohol sales. Neither has occurred. Last year,  Constellation took an impairment of just over a billion dollars to write down  the value of its 40% stake in Canopy. Private label powerhouse TreeHouse Foods was created by  acquisitions, but has been reversing course lately, as some look haphazardly  executed in hindsight. After a couple of years of disappointing results, the  founder/chairman/CEO Sam Reed was replaced in 2018 by Steve Oakland, who has  whittled the company down from well over $6 billion to $3.5 billion but has  endured two consecutive years of red ink. After “exploring strategic alternatives” since November of  2021, the company is focusing on the snack and beverage categories. In one fell  swoop, TreeHouse shed $1.6 billion in sales in late 2022 by selling its meal  preparation business. Oakland told us at the time it was probably the last big  step toward a smaller, more manageable and hopefully more profitable TreeHouse. Maple Leaf Foods jumped into the plant-based meat analog  category with the early-2017 purchase of Lightlife Foods from Brynwood  Partners, subsequently creating the Greenleaf subsidiary. By late 2021, the  company was reconsidering that investment. "We are seeing a marked  slowdown in the plant-based protein category performance which may suggest  systemic change in the extremely high growth rates expected by the industry,”  Executive Chair and CEO Michael McCain wrote in the company's third-quarter  2021 results. While that business continues to be critically evaluated,  Maple Leaf continues to operate it, although it has “aggressively scaled back  expenses, reduced headcount by 25%, and initiated supply chain optimization,”  and is “repurposing the under-utilized capacity towards opportunities in meat  protein.” The Food Processing Top 100© is based on numbers you won't  find anywhere else. We rank companies based on value-added/consumer-ready (but  not necessarily branded or in final form) foods and beverages that were  manufactured in U.S. and Canadian plants. That’s why No. 1 PepsiCo’s figure is  $52 billion, not the $86 billion the company has in global sales. Cargill  appears as a $15 billion meatpacker, not a $165 billion owner of ships, trains  and iron ore mines around the globe. ADM is not on the chart at all. Monster  Beverage Corp., even at $4 billion or so in sales, is not on this list (the  company manufactures none of its own beverages, all are done by co-packers). It's tough enough to figure out the sales of value-added,  consumer-ready, U.S. and Canadian self-manufactured foods and beverages for the  public companies; for the private companies, we rely on their statements to us  and other public reports about their finances or the general health of their  business and category. We use the most recent fiscal year available; if not  marked, that's calendar 2022. Dave Fusaro has served as editor in chief of Food Processing magazine since 2003. Dave has 30 years experience in food & beverage industry journalism and has won several national ASBPE writing awards for his Food Processing stories. Dave has been interviewed on CNN, quoted in national newspapers and he authored a 200-page market research report on the milk industry. Formerly an award-winning newspaper reporter who specialized in business writing, he holds a BA in journalism from Marquette University. Prior to joining Food Processing, Dave was Editor-In-Chief of Dairy Foods and was Managing Editor of Prepared Foods.