Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Bebeto Matthews/AP New York Yankees players run onto the field during a baseball game against the Texas Rangers, Sunday June 25, 2023, in New York. (AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews) John Minchillo/AP Josh Donaldson (r.) hasn't been producing as he'd like this season. New York Yankees players run onto the field during a baseball game against the Texas Rangers, Sunday June 25, 2023, in New York. (AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews) With roughly two weeks to go in the first half, the Yankees are in an odd position.With a 43-35, third-place record entering Tuesday’s series-opener in Oakland, they’re certainly not where they want to be. But things could also be a lot worse given all the injuries the team has endured.The Yankees — especially Brian Cashman and Hal Steinbrenner — are banking on the idea that better health and better days are ahead.However, injuries aren’t the only reason the Yankees haven’t lived up to expectations so far. With that in mind, here are a few things the team can accomplish before the All-Star break begins on July 10.WAKE UP THE BATSThe Yankees had been scuffling at the plate for a stretch the last time they played the A’s. Then they faced Oakland’s staff and erupted for 28 runs over a three-game sweep from May 8-10.Once again, the Bombers could use a dose of green and gold pitching.Entering Tuesday, the Yankees were hitting just .197 with a .260 OPB, 56 runs scored, 53 RBI and a 66 wRC+ since Aaron Judge tore a ligament in his toe on June 3. Those are the worst numbers in baseball over that stretch.

Their .347 slugging percentage is second-worst.
Josh Donaldson (r.) hasn’t been producing as he’d like this season.Four high-paid, veteran bats — Giancarlo Stanton, DJ LeMahieu, Anthony Rizzo and Josh Donaldson — are all hitting well-below .200 since Judge got hurt. Donaldson returned to the lineup Tuesday after a three-game benching. However, Rizzo found some success over his last nine games, hitting .310, while Stanton and LeMahieu picked up needed RBIs in the Yankees’ win over the Rangers on Sunday.The team has to hope those are encouraging signs for a lineup that’s received more production from non-roster invitees lately.PLAY CLEANER BASEBALLEven when the Yankees have won lately, they’ve played some ugly baseball.Whether it be by way of errors, baserunning mistakes or even balks, the team has routinely given away outs and runs in recent weeks. That has to stop happening with regularity.The Yankees entered Tuesday with nine balks, the most in baseball. Their 47 errors were fifth-worst, though their 19 outs on the bases surprisingly ranked in the better half of the league.START GETTING HEALTHYWith reliever Ian Hamilton expected back on the road trip, starter Carlos Rodon is next in line for an activation.The Yankees’ most significant offseason addition has yet to pitch in pinstripes thanks to forearm and back injuries. However, the southpaw is expected to make one more rehab start this week before debuting for the Yankees the week before the break.Another member of the rotation, Nestor Cortes, is supposed to get on a mound this week. Cortes hasn’t pitched since May 30 due to a rotator cuff strain.And then there’s Judge, who is slowly recovering from a torn ligament in his right big toe. The reigning MVP is out indefinitely, but the Yankees would love to at least have a clearer plan for Judge by the time the break rolls around.GAIN GROUNDTuesday’s series-opener in Oakland marked the start of six consecutive games in which the Yankees will play last-place teams. The second leg of the road trip takes the Yankees to St. Louis, where the Cardinals have been shockingly stuck in the basement of the National League Central division.The Yankees then return home for a four-game series against the Orioles, who lead them in the race for second place in the American League East. In other words, the Yanks have a prime opportunity to string some wins together and gain ground in their division before closing out the first half against a mediocre Cubs team.However, the Yankees wasted similar opportunities earlier this month, when they went 3-8 against the sub-.500 Mets and White Sox and the last-place Red Sox. The Yankees rebounded with a 4-2 homestand against the Mariners and first-place Rangers, but, as previously mentioned, they didn’t play pretty baseball in the Bronx. With a 43-35, third-place record entering Tuesday’s series-opener in Oakland, they’re certainly not where they want to be. But things could also be a lot worse given all the injuries the team has endured. The Yankees — especially Brian Cashman and Hal Steinbrenner — are banking on the idea that better health and better days are ahead. However, injuries aren’t the only reason the Yankees haven’t lived up to expectations so far. With that in mind, here are a few things the team can accomplish before the All-Star break begins on July 10. WAKE UP THE BATS The Yankees had been scuffling at the plate for a stretch the last time they played the A’s. Then they faced Oakland’s staff and erupted for 28 runs over a three-game sweep from May 8-10. Once again, the Bombers could use a dose of green and gold pitching. Entering Tuesday, the Yankees were hitting just .197 with a .260 OPB, 56 runs scored, 53 RBI and a 66 wRC+ since Aaron Judge tore a ligament in his toe on June 3. Those are the worst numbers in baseball over that stretch. Their .347 slugging percentage is second-worst. Four high-paid, veteran bats — Giancarlo Stanton, DJ LeMahieu, Anthony Rizzo and Josh Donaldson — are all hitting well-below .200 since Judge got hurt. Donaldson returned to the lineup Tuesday after a three-game benching. However, Rizzo found some success over his last nine games, hitting .310, while Stanton and LeMahieu picked up needed RBIs in the Yankees’ win over the Rangers on Sunday. The team has to hope those are encouraging signs for a lineup that’s received more production from non-roster invitees lately. PLAY CLEANER BASEBALL Even when the Yankees have won lately, they’ve played some ugly baseball. Whether it be by way of errors, baserunning mistakes or even balks, the team has routinely given away outs and runs in recent weeks. That has to stop happening with regularity. The Yankees entered Tuesday with nine balks, the most in baseball. Their 47 errors were fifth-worst, though their 19 outs on the bases surprisingly ranked in the better half of the league. START GETTING HEALTHY With reliever Ian Hamilton expected back on the road trip, starter Carlos Rodon is next in line for an activation. The Yankees’ most significant offseason addition has yet to pitch in pinstripes thanks to forearm and back injuries. However, the southpaw is expected to make one more rehab start this week before debuting for the Yankees the week before the break. Another member of the rotation, Nestor Cortes, is supposed to get on a mound this week. Cortes hasn’t pitched since May 30 due to a rotator cuff strain. And then there’s Judge, who is slowly recovering from a torn ligament in his right big toe. The reigning MVP is out indefinitely, but the Yankees would love to at least have a clearer plan for Judge by the time the break rolls around. GAIN GROUND Tuesday’s series-opener in Oakland marked the start of six consecutive games in which the Yankees will play last-place teams. The second leg of the road trip takes the Yankees to St. Louis, where the Cardinals have been shockingly stuck in the basement of the National League Central division. The Yankees then return home for a four-game series against the Orioles, who lead them in the race for second place in the American League East. In other words, the Yanks have a prime opportunity to string some wins together and gain ground in their division before closing out the first half against a mediocre Cubs team. However, the Yankees wasted similar opportunities earlier this month, when they went 3-8 against the sub-.500 Mets and White Sox and the last-place Red Sox. The Yankees rebounded with a 4-2 homestand against the Mariners and first-place Rangers, but, as previously mentioned, they didn’t play pretty baseball in the Bronx. Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News