WITH the recent warm weather, you may be tempted to decorate your garden and buy some new items for your patio. But before you get carried away, an interior designer has revealed the items they would never buy as they are a “waste” of money. Speaking to Insider, Tyka Pryde Edwards wrote: “Your outdoor space should be an extension of your personality and a place to unwind, not a battleground of regrettable design choices. “As an interior designer, there are a few things I'd never spend money on for an outdoor space when I'm creating a spot that's easy on the eyes.” Here are six things you should avoid wasting your cash on… While black furniture can look chic and sleek, Tyka said you may regret forking out for an outdoor set in the dark colour. They explained: “Black-top metal dining tables often turn into a hotplate on a scorching summer day. Remember, you're here to enjoy a meal, not cook your forearms.” Instead, opt for a lighter colour or a different material.  A plastic table and chairs set may seem like an appealing option if you are on a budget, but can be “too good to be true”, according to Tyka. This is because they get damaged more easily, meaning you may have to buy a new set every few years. This can be due to the sun scorching holes in the material, or them getting snapped or ruined. If you are desperate for a hot tub in your garden, an inflatable version can be a more affordable alternative. However, the interior designer advised against them. They said the blow-up tubs don’t have the same insulation and heat retention, meaning you may use more energy keeping it at a desired temperature. Tyka said the “long-term durability” isn’t there with the inflatable tubs, and come with a “side of troubleshooting". If you want to decorate your garden and add a splash of colour, you may wish to think twice about what you buy. Tyka explained: “Gnomes, flamingos, and a life-sized replica of the Statue of Liberty can be a little much for your lawn. A touch of whimsy and personal expression is always welcome but there's a fine line between tasteful embellishment and what can only be described as an enchanted junkyard.” They said that “less is more” when it comes to lawn ornaments. If gardening is your main hobby, it’s fine to get creative when it comes to your plant choices. However, as soon as your garden turns from a paradise into a chore, it can be a sign you’ve gone too far. Tyka recommends getting “low maintenance” and “resilient” plants so you can get maximum benefits with minimal effort. There are so many colourful cushions and outdoor rugs being sold in shops which can add a splash of colour on your patio.  But the interior designer said you should take care to not waste cash on materials where the design or colour can fade. Tyka advised to avoid outdoor furniture with cotton, linen, polyester or nylon fabrics. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/