Larger-than-life magnification for reality-bending macro photos Images, and the devices that capture them, are my focus. I've covered cameras at PCMag for the past 13 years, which has given me a front row seat for the DSLR to mirrorless transition, the smartphone camera revolution, and the mainstream adoption of drones for aerial imaging. I have extensive experience with every major mirrorless and SLR system. As a Part 107 Certified drone pilot, I’m licensed to fly unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial and editorial purposes, and am knowledgeable about federal rules and regulations regarding drones. You can find me on Instagram @jamespfisher. The M.Zuiko Digital ED 90mm F3.5 Macro IS PRO lens hones in on the smallest details for otherworldly macros and comes with the all-weather construction we expect from OM System. Despite a vast catalog of lenses, there are only a handful of autofocusing macros available for Micro Four Thirds cameras. The OM System M.Zuiko Digital ED 90mm F3.5 Macro IS PRO ($1,499.99) is the first to support 2:1 magnification and can get even closer views with a teleconverter. As part of the PRO series, the macro is built to match up with OM's weather-protected cameras and includes stabilized optics to improve the handheld experience. You won't find another macro lens with this many features for any other camera system, making it an Editors' Choice winner. Most dedicated macro lenses focus close enough to project a subject onto the image sensor at life-size, or 1:1 magnification. The OM 90mm has a narrow, telephoto angle of view and still focuses quite close, so it's able to snap subjects at double life-size, 2:1. It's not an unheard of feature, but it is an uncommon one. This is the first 2:1 macro we've seen with autofocus too, setting it apart from pure manual options like the Venus Laowa 50mm F2.8 2x Ultra Macro ($399). The OM 90mm is the largest Micro Four Thirds macro lens to date, but it isn't overly huge. At 5.4 by 2.8 inches (HD) and just about a pound, the lens isn't much bigger than the Sigma 105mm F2.8 DG DN Macro Art for full-frame cameras (5.3 by 2.9 inches, 1.6 pounds), though it is is significantly lighter. The lens is built well. OM puts the optics in a metal barrel, anodized in matte black. It goes beyond advertising simple dust and splash protection and certifies the lens for IP53 protection, so you can use it outdoors without worry. The front element is protected by fluorine, making it easier to wipe off stray fingerprints or water droplets than with lenses that don't have an anti-smudge coat. OM includes a spattering of on-barrel controls. A configurable L-Fn button is handy for focus drive or lock, and there are toggles to turn the IS system on and off and to set the focus limiter. The limiter is useful for a lens with such a long focus range; you can set its autofocus to look for subjects across the entire focus range (0.25m-infinity), at near distances only (0.25-0.5m), or to prioritize subjects in its Super Macro mode. Manual focus is available too. The OM 90mm Macro has a knurled metal focus ring with a clutch system to swap between manual and autofocus. It's a welcome feature for photographers who love the tactile feel of manual focus, and includes printed distance and magnification scales to give you an idea of the set focus distance. If you find that the clutch gets in the way you can opt to disable it from the camera menu. The autofocus response is snappy. I tested the lens with the OM-1, the fastest-focusing Micro Four Thirds camera, and found it to snap right into focus in most situations. It's helpful to use the limiter for close-up work, though, as it does take a half-second for the focus to drive from close to far or vice versa. I was able to get more good handheld results with the lens than I'd typically expect from an extreme macro—I broke out a tripod to snap some soap bubble macro shots at my kitchen table on a day when it was just too cold to go outside and the autofocus was reliable enough for consistently in-focus results. Close focus is available to 8.8 inches, and that's where you'll set the lens for 2:1 results. Focus distance is measured from the sensor, so really it's 2.6 inches from the front of the lens. You'll have to back up just an inch to move down to 1:1 focus, and you can snap focus to far-off distances with ease. The lens works with teleconverters, too. You can match it with the Olympus 1.4x or 2.0x for a tighter angle, but the same minimum focus distance. With the 1.4x you can imagine 2.8:1 pictures, and with the 2.0x you'll get 4:1 results at the closest working distance. Teleconverters reduce incoming light, though, so don't forget your flash. OM, and Olympus before it, has included in-body image stabilization across its camera line for years. It's effective and many M.Zuiko lenses omit stabilization without any real detriment because of it. But in-body systems aren't effective at keeping an image steady while you're setting up a shot, only during exposure. The in-lens stabilization in the OM 90mm comes in handy here, it keeps the viewfinder solid when handholding your camera. I tried the lens along with the OM-1 and enjoyed the experience for handheld work in nature. I was able to find interesting details and get the lens right on them, with a rock-steady view in the EVF. Optical stabilization works in conjunction with the in-body system for up to 7-stops of compensation, and the lens supports 6-stops on its own if you're using it with a camera without sensor stabilization. I matched the OM 90mm with the OM-1 for resolution testing. The pair puts up an outstanding result for a 20MP camera: 2,800 lines at f/3.5-11, with a flat field of focus for consistent detail from center to edge. Diffraction cuts into picture quality at f/16-22 and pictures are generally softer at these f-stops. If you're trying to get more depth of field from a photo than the lens can manage at f/11, consider leveraging focus stacking. Stacking takes several images captured at different focus points and blends them together—several compatible cameras, including the OM-1, OM-5, and Olympus E-M1 Mark II and III, support in-camera stacking. As for background blur, the 90mm F3.5 has no problem creating it. The tight angle of view and relatively wide aperture come together for smoothly defocused backgrounds or macro photos with just a sliver of a subject in focus. We couldn't spot any false color (LoCa) in transitions between focus and out-of-focus parts of the frame or in specular highlights. Defocused highlights show the typical cat's eye shape toward the corners at f/3.5, but take on a rounded shape at narrower f-stops. Edges of the bokeh highlights are softly feathered, without signs of the double or hard edges that can lead to pictures with busy backgrounds. The macro optical formula completely avoids barrel and pincushion distortion, so you can use the lens for reproduction work without worry. There is a slight vignette cast at wide aperture. It's most visible when photographing distant subjects, and draws photos with dimmed corners at f/3.5. Pictures show even illumination from center to edge at narrower f-stops. Let's hand it to OM System for developing a lens that's not quite like any other. We've seen macros that go from as close as 2:1 magnification to infinity before, but all have been manual focus lenses. Macro photographers with serious devotion can add extension tubes to 1:1 lenses for closer results, but you'll lose the ability to focus on far-off subjects when going that route. With the OM System M.Zuiko Digital ED 90mm F3.5 Macro IS PRO, you can get frame-filling photos of subjects just half the size of a Micro Four Thirds camera sensor one moment, and change focus to spot something far off or take a portrait in the next. All-weather construction, optical stabilization, and quickly responding autofocus are all there too. These features let you take the lens anywhere and go a long way to make handheld 2:1 magnification images obtainable. Despite its position as the first modern-day mirrorless camera system, photographers using Micro Four Thirds gear simply haven't had access to a macro lens like this previously. The Olympus 60mm F2.8 provides 1:1 focus but skips stabilization. It's also ancient in tech terms, we reviewed it in late 2012, and lens design has come a long way in the interim. Other choices are more recent and sport wider angles, but the Panasonic Lumix G 30mm F2.8 Macro ($399) and the Olympus 30mm F3.5 Macro ($299) skip weather protection, and are priced much more affordably. We're recommending the OM 90mm F3.5 Macro IS PRO as our Editors' Choice, despite its lofty price tag. Photographers who love finding beauty in the smallest details of our world will see reason to pick this one up. The M.Zuiko Digital ED 90mm F3.5 Macro IS PRO lens hones in on the smallest details for otherworldly macros and comes with the all-weather construction we expect from OM System. Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Images, and the devices that capture them, are my focus. I've covered cameras at PCMag for the past 13 years, which has given me a front row seat for the DSLR to mirrorless transition, the smartphone camera revolution, and the mainstream adoption of drones for aerial imaging. I have extensive experience with every major mirrorless and SLR system. As a Part 107 Certified drone pilot, I’m licensed to fly unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial and editorial purposes, and am knowledgeable about federal rules and regulations regarding drones. You can find me on Instagram @jamespfisher. Read Jim's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.