MENU Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. For a POS system that can manage payments, track inventory, and provide key sales reports, you can’t go wrong with our best picks. At Business News Daily, we’ve spent years researching and testing the technology that enables entrepreneurs to accomplish their goals and scale their businesses more efficiently. Our team of small business tech specialists conducts independent evaluations of the best technology platforms to determine which best meet the needs of small business owners. We also regularly consult with technology experts. including IT professionals, developers, implementation specialists and cybersecurity professionals, to stay on top of the latest tech trends impacting small businesses. And every review we publish is evaluated by our editorial staff to ensure objectivity, accuracy and fairness are at the core of our decision-making. Learn more about our editorial guidelines. When choosing our picks for the best POS systems, our team of small business tech experts attended live demonstrations, conducted firsthand testing and engaged in thorough research to find the most effective platforms on the market. We started by examining pricing and plans to determine which vendors had the best options for small businesses. Then, we examined the most important features in each POS... When choosing our picks for the best POS systems, our team of small business tech experts attended live demonstrations, conducted firsthand testing and engaged in thorough research to find the most effective platforms on the market. We started by examining pricing and plans to determine which vendors had the best options for small businesses. Then, we examined the most important features in each POS system, including customer payment options, inventory management, customer loyalty programs and sales reports. Finally, we examined customer feedback about each solution we reviewed to get a sense of how users’ real-world experiences lined up with our own testing. considered reviewed selected When choosing our picks for the best POS systems, our team of small business tech experts attended live demonstrations, conducted firsthand testing and engaged in thorough research to find the most effective platforms on the market. We started by examining pricing and plans to determine which vendors had the best options for small businesses. Then, we examined the most important features in each POS system, including customer payment options, inventory management, customer loyalty programs and sales reports. Finally, we examined customer feedback about each solution we reviewed to get a sense of how users’ real-world experiences lined up with our own testing. considered reviewed selected Consumers today expect a seamless purchase experience, with both in-store and e-commerce shopping opportunities, digital wallet compatibility and discounts for their repeated patronage. Businesses relying on stodgy, old cash registers risk turning off customers with slow checkout processes, confusing product catalogs, outdated payment methods and a lack of loyalty incentives.  Modern POS systems, such as this one from Clover, include top-of-the-line terminals, card readers, customer-facing displays and handheld devices. Source: Clover The best POS systems on the market are equipped with the tools businesses need to process sales quickly, track high-selling products and retain customers with inventive loyalty programs. Whether you opt for a retail-specific solution like Shopify, a restaurant-focused setup from Toast or a versatile system with Clover or Square, today’s POS programs modernize the selling process to drive revenue and growth. After testing both leading products and lesser-known offerings, we determined the best POS platforms for a variety of small businesses. Overall value Hardware Omnichannel businesses Customer experience Retail Restaurants Small businesses Restaurants, retail, service-based businesses and e-commerce Restaurants E-commerce, retail and hospitality Restaurants Retail, restaurants, e-commerce and golf Restaurants Restaurants, retail and service-based businesses 90 days Not available 3 days Not available 14 days 14 days 30 days $14.95 monthly $0 $5 monthly $69 monthly $69 monthly $69 monthly $0 More than 600 More than 80 More than 8,000 More than 15 More than 250 More than 25 More than 300 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes No Phone, email, online chat Phone, email, online chat Phone, email, online chat Phone, email, web ticket Phone, email Phone, email, online chat Phone, email, online chat, social media Clover is a feature-packed, all-in-one POS solution that allows you to manage your business, including sales, payment processing, inventory tracking, employee scheduling and more, from anywhere. We found it to be an excellent option for many businesses, particularly those seeking a wide selection of POS hardware and exceptional overall value. One of the advantages of Clover’s proprietary hardware is how easy it is to set up and begin using the system. The devices are ready to use as soon as you take them out of the box and everything syncs seamlessly with the Clover dashboard. If your hardware needs are minimal, you can start with the Clover Go card reader and upgrade to its full POS station as your needs expand. We love that you can use the Clover Go app to create orders, accept payments and text receipts, making it ideal for processing sales wherever your customers are. With a large number of sector-specific packages, you’re sure to find a plan that meets your business’s needs.  Clover’s portable POS devices are so popular that some rival POS and credit card processing companies rely on the equipment. Source: Clover Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Clover has a TrustScore of 3.6 stars out of five, indicating “average” reviews. “Three months ago, I was offered Clover from my banking institution. I have been using it since. As a new business owner, it was a very good setup for my business. I will recommend it to those who are beginning their business dream. The transaction fees are low,” reads one testimonial. Read our full Clover review for more information Toast is a food-and-beverage POS system with durable restaurant-grade hardware and accessories. The impressive hardware offerings include the handheld Toast Go, the Toast Flex register and the Toast Kiosk. A variety of card readers and other peripheral devices are also available, making Toast a prime destination for hardware-minded food business owners. Plus, you can get started with two terminals at no cost. Toast’s POS solution can help busy restaurant owners quickly accept payments and track sales with ease. We found that the software has everything you need to manage your restaurant, including front-of-house, back-of-house and guest-facing technology. We especially appreciate that Toast serves restaurants of all sizes, including upscale eateries, casual dining establishments, bars, nightclubs, food trucks and cafes. Best of all, you can get started for free with Toast’s Starter Kit. [See our Toast vs. Clover comparison.]  Toast’s impressive hardware, built specifically for food and drink businesses, won’t falter under the high temperatures often found in restaurant kitchens. Source: Toast Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Toast has a TrustScore of 3.4 stars out of five after more than 1,000 ratings. “Great POS we have so far. Manage daily operations, integrations, menu updates and more in one place,” reads one review. Read our full Toast review for more information Shopify is best known for its e-commerce platform, but the company also offers a comprehensive POS system. This solution is an excellent option for businesses that want to unify their online and in-person sales. While Shopify can work for all types of businesses, we found it to be ideal for e-commerce and retail-focused companies. In particular, the software is a good choice for anyone looking to take advantage of omnichannel features. For example, customers can place an order online and pick it up at the store thanks to Shopify’s convenient purchasing and order fulfillment tools. Although Shopify’s free trial is rather short at only three days, the extremely affordable pricing for the in-person Starter plan means businesses don’t have to make a significant financial investment as they continue to try the system and evaluate whether it’s the right solution for them. Then, the packages are easily scalable if you want to access more robust tools and don’t mind the added expense.  The Shopify POS system lets businesses manage sales across channels and devices seamlessly. Source: Shopify Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Shopify has a TrustScore of 1.5 stars out of 5, which Trustpilot understandably categorizes as “bad.” But one user review raves, “Super easy to jump-start your online business! I love all of the integrations and apps!” Read our full Shopify review for more information Cake is our pick for the best POS system for restaurants prioritizing the customer experience because of the wide variety of diner-focused features the company offers. The guest management tools allow you to accept online reservations, set up a waitlist and provide real-time status updates to waiting guests. Meanwhile, we like how you can improve the speed of service by offering tableside ordering, self-checkout and even payments facilitated through QR codes. These functions enable you to provide exceptional service without hurting profits. Notably, all Cake plans come with complimentary POS hardware, which we find particularly valuable. Similar to Toast, the vendor provides devices that are built to withstand the messy, high-temperature environments common in restaurants.  Cake’s POS system digitizes table management, so you no longer have to track seatings with pen and paper. Source: Cake Payment Processing Transaction Fees Read our full Cake review for more information Lightspeed is a leading POS provider for businesses in the retail and restaurant industries. It has an especially impressive set of features geared toward retailers, including advanced loyalty and inventory management tools. Plus, with e-commerce capabilities, Lightspeed can enable your company to sell its goods online, whether through a website, marketplace or even social media. We appreciate how easy it is to sync product catalogs between your brick-and-mortar and online store, monitor stock levels and offer both local pick-up and shipping with the Lightspeed platform. Thanks to customized reports, we like how businesses can gain sales insights and adjust their product offerings, sales strategies and customer engagement tactics accordingly.  Lightspeed enables businesses to sell products online, in addition to on-premises. Source: Lightspeed Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Lightspeed boasts nearly 2,000 reviews and a TrustScore of 4.4 stars out of 5. One user says, “Lightspeed is a very easy system to use and has a great support system should you need it.” Read our full Lightspeed review for more information TouchBistro provides a full suite of restaurant-specific POS features, from mobile tableside ordering and self-service to an ingredient-based inventory tracking system. When demoing the platform, we found it simple to monitor table turnover, easily communicate recipe changes and even create customer accounts to store information about your most loyal diners. We like that you can create an iPad POS system by running this mobile-friendly POS solution on an iPad, iPad mini or iPad Pro. TouchBistro also supports third-party POS hardware, such as barcode scanners, cash drawers and receipt printers. This helps keep your accessory costs down, although you’ll have to contact the company to see if TouchBistro is compatible with your current hardware.  When using the TouchBistro menu tools, you can decide whether items are available for online ordering or can only be enjoyed in-house. Source: TouchBistro Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Across hundreds of reviews, TouchBistro has earned a TrustScore of 3.9 stars out of five. One person says, “In my prior job, I was a POS technician. I’ve installed many POS systems from TouchBistro. I must say that their POS systems are very reliable and customer care reps are always great to deal with.” Read our full TouchBistro review for more information Square is the best POS option for small businesses thanks to its free plans for a variety of business types. To take advantage of this no-cost platform, you must process payments through Square’s in-house service. The vendor offers free mobile readers for new customers, so you can get started right away, although its other well-regarded POS devices, such as the Square Register and Terminal, are available for purchase. Companies will appreciate the ability to use Square’s generalized POS solution or the opportunity to choose a POS package geared toward their sector, such as appointment-based businesses. We love that the software is increasing the incorporation of artificial intelligence (AI) features, such as tools for creating realistic images for your business’s website.  The Square card reader allows customers to tap their phone for contactless payments or insert their credit card for a chip reading. Source: Square Payment Processing Transaction Fees Trustpilot Score: Square has a TrustScore of 4 stars out of 5 and more than 4,500 ratings. Says one review, “I love using Square for my business. It’s very versatile. And all the extra add-ons that are available are super awesome. I utilize a bunch [of] them.” Read our full Square review for more information While we’re confident our top recommendations above can meet your company’s POS needs, we understand you may want to know what else is out there. We tested and evaluated a number of other solutions and found some notable strengths in the POS systems highlighted below. GoDaddy may be best known for offering custom domains and websites, but it’s also a great POS solution for those who want to set up a site, accept customer payments and track sales. Every plan includes a website builder, custom domain and detailed website and marketing analytics. If you purchase one of the advanced packages, you can also access gift cards, discounted shipping and promotional features. Note that the system doesn’t integrate with third-party payment processors, so you’ll have to use GoDaddy Payments. Learn more in our GoDaddy POS review. Epos Now is one of the best POS systems for businesses concerned about ease of use. The software is intuitive. It should take your staff less than 15 minutes to learn how to use the platform, meaning you’ll save on employee training costs. Plus, you’ll receive one-on-one onboarding when getting started. Epos Now offers excellent hardware options, including a touchscreen POS system, a handheld POS option, receipt printers and cash drawers. You can add the hardware you need to create a custom solution for your business. Epos Now also integrates with various third-party products, giving you many options to adjust the system’s functionality to your liking. Learn more in our ePOSNow review. Brilliant POS is a Clover reseller that provides additional inventory management features for a wide range of businesses. With Brilliant POS, you can track products at the item level and receive automated alerts when your stock is running low. You can also upload an unlimited number of stock keeping units and leverage your sales data to optimize your reordering from suppliers; that way, you’ll never run out of inventory but you won’t keep too much on hand either. We found Brilliant POS to be highly user-friendly, especially its straightforward dashboard that displays all the most important data a business needs at a glance. Learn more in our Brilliant POS review. Wix is best known for its website building tools, but it also offers POS software that’s particularly suitable for e-commerce businesses. Wix POS comes with flat-rate payment processing powered by Square and is packaged in intuitive software that takes little to no time to learn how to use. We found Wix to be useful for businesses with both e-commerce and brick-and-mortar elements to their business, blending the software and hardware needs that both types of businesses demand. It supports adept inventory management and enables customers to select flexible delivery or pickup options, allowing you to use it in the way that best suits your business and customers. The Revel POS system is ideal for retail and restaurant businesses wanting to focus on multilocation growth. With an open API, you can customize and scale the cloud-based software to serve multiple sales channels as your company expands. Thanks to the “Always On” mode, we love that this solution can process sales even if your internet is out, while the vendor’s “payments agnostic” approach gives you the freedom to work with the payment processor of your choosing. You’ll also find tools for inventory management, employee time tracking and loyalty programs. CardConnect is a merchant services provider that offers virtual terminals for a browser-based POS system, as well as a mobile credit card app, CardPointe retail terminals and Clover hardware for a robust physical setup. With this combination of tools, businesses can ring up sales anywhere and feel secure knowing CardConnect has built-in features for fraud protection, PCI compliance and other security measures. Payment processing costs are based on interchange rates that are optimized with each transaction. We especially appreciate the integration with QuickBooks, allowing you to streamline financial recordkeeping and accounting processes. Similar to Toast, Cake and TouchBistro, Lavu is another restaurant-specific POS solution suitable for food and beverage businesses, ranging from fine-dining establishments to nightclubs to ice cream shops. This cloud-based iPad system can include terminals, self-order kiosks, a kitchen display system and more. We’re particularly fond of the software’s dual pricing feature, which allows businesses to set one price for customers paying by cash and another price for those using credit cards. Cash discounts can incentivize diners while offsetting your credit card processing fees, so this is a smart tool to have. Helcim provides credit card processing services while also offering POS features and tools through its integrated app, terminal and card reader. We love that Helcim doesn’t charge a monthly subscription fee, giving businesses free access to its POS software. As a payment processor, Helcim also eschews monthly fees. Instead, you’ll only pay for interchange-plus processing rates. With a virtual terminal, online checkout and invoicing in addition to the in-person POS hardware, you can accept payments in a multitude of ways.  The more advanced your terminal setup is, the more you’ll pay in hardware costs. Source: Lightspeed When you invest in a POS system, you’ll typically incur three primary costs: a one-time hardware fee, a monthly or annual software fee and a payment processing fee. Here’s an overview of what you can expect to pay for each expense:  Today’s POS systems go beyond ringing up sales — the software can also facilitate customer loyalty programs. Source: Toast The right POS features will make it easier to run your business and streamline your operations. Here are some features you should look for when choosing a POS system. Most businesses begin looking for a POS system because they need a way to complete customer transactions. Many POS providers go beyond accepting credit cards and debit cards, allowing you to take online and contactless payments. In the process, you’ll receive detailed insights about your daily sales, so you’ll always know how your business is performing. Basic POS systems may support only a product catalog while others have POS inventory management features that allow you to track inventory at the component or ingredient level. Some plans include purchase ordering and vendor management features to simplify your reordering process. Consider whether standard inventory tools will be sufficient or if you’ll need advanced features to keep your business well stocked. Customer management features vary among POS systems. Some allow you to capture basic information, such as your customers’ email addresses so you can build an email marketing contact list. Other POS systems are CRM-enabled, with features that let you generate CRM metrics and create customer profiles, including contact information, purchase histories, preferences, birthdays and notes. To ensure a loyal customer base, you must reward your best customers. A POS system enables that with built-in loyalty tools. The top POS systems can collect information about your customers’ shopping and dining preferences and help you design customer loyalty programs and rewards programs around that data. You can customize rewards based on how frequently customers shop at your store and the products or services they purchase. You can usually onboard your employees to the POS system and manage their access to various features and information. Some systems have role-based access controls while others let you customize the controls for each worker. We like platforms that have built-in time clocks, which let your employees use the POS system to clock in and out. Others can let you schedule shifts, track individual employees’ sales and manage tips. All POS systems can generate POS reports. However, some have only basic report functionality with preconfigured reports and limited customization. Others are advanced with dozens of reporting options and filters to help you analyze data for your sales, inventory, customers and staff. The best POS systems provide real-time reports you can access from any device with a browser or mobile app. Before you purchase a POS system, ensure that it offers the specific reports you need to run your business efficiently. POS systems typically have many features, but the offered packages may not be enough for your small business. That’s where add-ons and third-party integrations can help. For example, you may want to integrate your POS system with the best credit card processors, high-quality accounting software and top marketing platforms. You may want to use a specific email marketing service or offer a customer loyalty program from a specific provider. The best POS systems give you many integration and add-on choices so you won’t be limited as your business grows. While not a feature per se, you should be able to contact your POS provider around the clock to receive help with the system when you need it, even if your business keeps irregular hours or you’re working on the weekend. Look for a POS vendor you can easily reach via your preferred communication mode, whether by phone, email, live chat or social media. The best companies offer 24/7 support.  Among the advantages of using a POS system with robust reporting functionality is the ability to dive deep into your sales data. Source: Shopify The best POS solutions do much more than let businesses accept customer payments. With a combination of modern-day hardware technology and increasingly smart software, your company can use a POS platform to attract and retain customers, capitalize on business intelligence and even track staff performance. Below are a few of our favorite POS system benefits:  When choosing a POS system, businesses should consider whether they only need standard features or advanced tools like invoicing. Source: Square The best POS system for your business will depend on your business type and the specific features you need. Here are three steps to take when you’re evaluating POS systems and choosing one for your company. The first step is to research the POS products currently available on the market. You can use online guides like this one to compare and contrast different options. It’s also a good idea to browse user reviews and customer comments on third-party review sites and the Better Business Bureau website. Based on your research, identify the platforms that best meet your organization’s needs. Once you’ve done your initial research and narrowed your search to a few companies, reach out to each vendor to ask for a product demo. You should also sign up for any free trials to test the software. Ensure the POS system setup process is straightforward so you don’t get bogged down with implementation. Remember to consider the unique circumstances of your business when trying each solution. The best POS system for restaurants will offer different features than the best POS system for retail, for example, so think through how this software will impact your team’s day-to-day workflow. Will there be a learning curve? Do you need a lot of integrations or API access to make the system function as you wish? Does the provider offer hands-on customer service? The answers to these questions should help you further narrow your list of options. Once you’ve done the demos and explained to each company what you’re looking for, ask for quotes from each vendor. Compare what each package includes and see which product gives you the most bang for your buck. Ideally, at this point in the process, you can determine which POS system best meets your business’s needs at a cost you can afford. At Business News Daily, our team of small business sales and technology experts have been researching and testing POS systems for years, comparing some of the leading solutions across more than 25 key metrics. We considered 112 POS systems to start and closely reviewed and tested 14 of them before selecting our seven best picks above. Below are the factors we examined when deciding our top recommendations. Each is weighted according to how much the criteria typically influences business owners’ buying decisions. In addition to evaluating each POS system based on these criteria, we also determined the best use-case scenarios for each. No two businesses are exactly alike, so we put ourselves in the shoes of different types of small business owners to identify the best POS systems for a variety of needs. To learn more about how we review and test sales technology products and services for small businesses, read about our editorial process.  A POS system is a technology platform that enables businesses to accept customer payments. It also includes features that make it easier for merchants to manage sales data, inventory, customers and employees. All kinds of businesses use POS systems. After all, virtually every business needs some way to accept and process customer payments and POS systems help them do that. Brick-and-mortar retailers and restaurants typically require POS hardware, such as handheld terminals and cash registers. Online and e-commerce businesses usually need little more than a virtual terminal to accept payments. Some may prefer POS solutions with invoicing tools to bill vendors and suppliers. For another example of a type of business that uses POS solutions, see our roundup of the best POS systems for grocery stores. A business needs a POS system as soon as it begins selling goods or services, no matter how small your operation is. It enables your business to accept payments and makes the checkout experience easier for you and your customers, reducing errors and the time it takes to ring up a sale. Yes, a POS system can track inventory. Almost every modern POS solution is capable of monitoring the items you have in stock; some can even generate purchase orders. POS systems with advanced inventory management tools can track sales from your e-commerce platform or physical retail store in real time or across multiple business locations. Restaurant-focused POS systems often provide ingredient-level tracking and will adjust your menus automatically when an item is unavailable. Yes, a POS system can help manage your staff. If you choose a platform with robust employee management tools, you can create schedules and give employees a way to clock in and out, as well as monitor which team members are performing the best. These insights can help you make strategic staffing decisions. Some POS solutions also integrate with highly rated payroll services to ensure accurate payment for hours worked. POS systems have come a long way since the early days of retail. No longer is a POS system just a register, cash drawer and credit card swiper. These days, they are multifaceted solutions that enable you to manage various aspects of your business from one platform. In 2024, POS systems will likely offer advanced AI-driven features and provide tools that help businesses optimize operations and gain data about their customers. As POS systems change, we expect to see expanded automation abilities. Vendors are regularly rolling out software features that let you set up automated workflows for inventory management, payroll, reservations, orders and payments, freeing your staff to focus on other areas that may require more attention. Automation can be an effective solution for streamlining processes and maximizing efficiency. We’re also noticing more POS systems offering self-service options for customers, especially restaurants. Customers can order online and pick up their food without ever leaving their vehicles. They can also use self-serve kiosks to order and pay and even pay their bill right from their phone. Meanwhile, POS systems that cater to e-commerce companies are offering more ways for businesses to sell their products online via social media and this trend will continue in 2024 and beyond. For both online and brick-and-mortar businesses, we expect AI to play an increasingly important role in POS software. Predictive AI can perform functions that include flagging suspicious transactions and recommending products to stock. Another valuable feature is AI-controlled dynamic pricing that adjusts product prices in real time based on supply and demand. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.