A ThinkTAP company Sometimes, interesting or worthwhile ideas for photography projects elude us. It makes us feel that we’re out of things to shoot, which tends to be discouraging. If you’re currently in this situation and feeling the frustration, here’s a quick pro tip worth trying out. Alex Kilbee of The Photographic Eye suggests using the WAKE system to help with your photography exercise. What is worthy of being photographed? How can you increase your awareness of what you can take photos of? Once you have those settled, it’s important that you keep shooting and don’t overthink what you’ve done so far. Finally, don’t be afraid to experiment with ideas and explore different approaches; you may just end up with something delightfully surprising! Of course, any system or technique will take time for you to be comfortable with. You may need to have a shift in mindset just to get you started with the very first step. But with enough practice and patience, you’ll likely be able to find scenes to photograph wherever you are. So, get your camera and WAKE up your creativity for that next big photography project! Want more pro tips and tricks like this? Don’t forget to join our group discussions if you’re already part of the Photofocus Community! Tell your story with the second annual Visual Storytelling Conference! Experience four days of interactive, online training sessions featuring a range of educational content with experienced photographers and content creators. This free event kicks off with a series of technical boot camps to build essential skills, followed by live, online sessions on photography, video, business and social media. Join live from March 10-13, 2022! By shopping with our partners and affiliates, you help keep content on Photofocus free. Click here to learn more. Joy is a film photographer, writer, and visual storyteller based in Manila, Philippines. She is drawn to conceptual portraits and surreal imagery, which she also strives to flesh out in her own work. Her photos have been featured on Flickr and several independent film photography blogs and magazines.  Δ  Δ RTFM and WAKE! Radiant Photo – Radiant Photo superior quality finished photos with perfect color rendition, delivered in record time. Your photos — simply RADIANT. The way they are meant to be. Mylio Photos – Access your photos from anywhere, without the cloud! Easily showcase your photos on-the-go, resolve duplicates, find faces and look for those stunning locations. B&H – B&H is a world renowned supplier of all the gear photographers, videographers, and cinematographers need and want to create their very best work. MPB – Grab used but perfectly working cameras and lenses for less, or turn your old gear into cash by trading and selling them on MPB! Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest from Photofocus delivered each week. Copyright 2022, ThinkTAP. All rights reserved. Photofocus.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. As an Amazon Associate we earn from qualifying purchases. Photofocus.com is also a participant in the B&H Photo and KEH Camera affiliate programs. Photo Video Software Reviews Mobile Community Inspiration Drones Business Podcasts Webinars News Guides Opinion Quick Tips Deals All stories Copyright 2022, ThinkTAP