ALLY McCoist admits Ange Postecoglou's departure for Tottenham Hotspur has "spiced things up" from a Rangers perspective.  That's the opinion of Gers hero Ally McCoist, in the wake of the news that the veteran Aussie's departure on a four-year deal after winning back-to-back titles with Celtic.  It's created some short-term turmoil at Parkhead, as they wonder who to turn to next as manager.  We also told you how Postecoglou's departure is set to spark a £20m transfer scramble for the services of key man Kyogo Furuhashi.  He told TalkSPORT: "The interesting thing now is a couple of the Celtic boys I know are thinking he will come and swoop for one or two of his former players, whether it is Kyogo or Hatate - and certainly Carter-Vickers has had an excellent season.  "That remains to be seen, will Celtic keep their squad?  "Who is going to come in and if they will want to change the squad and make changes. "Certainly it has spiced things up, which from a Rangers point of view is excellent." It’s widely expected Postecoglou will launch a huge bid for his Hoops talisman Kyogo in the coming weeks. But it’s understood Scotland’s Player of the Year and top scorer is also being tracked by clubs from all of Europe’s top five leagues. Kyogo recently spoke of his desire to play in the Bundesliga one day and Italians Lazio scouted him earlier this season. French and Spanish clubs have also joined a host of English sides keeping tabs after a prolific season. Keep up to date with ALL the latest news and transfers at the Scottish Sun football page ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.