A woman accidentally ran over a man suspected of trying to steal her truck's catalytic converter in the Los Angeles suburb of Palmdale Tuesday evening, CBS Los Angeles reports. The suspect later died. Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies arrived at a retail parking lot at 5:56 p.m. Tuesday. A "lifted" 4x4 Ford Excursion truck was partially backed out of a parking space, deputies said. An unidentified man was underneath the vehicle. Deputies said a woman had fallen asleep in the truck, which was parked, when she heard sawing underneath. She turned on the vehicle, backed out of the space and felt a bump. The woman stopped and called 911 for medical assistance for the man. He was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. "The victim turned her vehicle on, put it in reverse, heard a thump and stopped the vehicle, and then saw that there was a suspect underneath the car that had been run over by her car," said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Hugo Reynaga. Deputies said three other suspects -- a man and two women -- in a car parked next to the truck were taken into custody. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Dept. offers tips for owners of trucks or SUVs -- "especially lifted ones need to be more cautious because it's easier for criminals to get underneath them": When you are able to, park in well-lit areas and close to your home.Try to park your car inside and keep the garage door shut.Have the catalytic converter welded to your car's frame, which may make it harder to steal.Consider engraving or etching your vehicle identification number (VIN) on the catalytic converterConsider engraving or etching your vehicle license plate number on the catalytic converterCalibrate your car's alarm to set off when it detects vibration. In recent years, the number of catalytic converter thefts has shot up by more than 1,200 percent, according to the National Insurance Crime Bureau. They're sought for the precious metals thley're made with. Full interview: Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on “Face the Nation” Bob Schieffer on Jimmy Carter's life and career National Institute of Mental Health director on treating depression New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.