David Raya has been linked with a summer move to Tottenham Hotspur as Spurs look to find Hugo Lloris' long-term successor ahead of the 2023/24 campaign Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Don't miss any of the latest and best Spurs news - sign up to the free Tottenham newsletter for updates straight to your inbox We have more newsletters This summer gives Daniel Levy and Tottenham the perfect chance to reset as a club and get back on track. Riding high in the Premier League under Mauricio Pochettino and sealing a place in the 2019 Champions League final, Spurs have gone backwards since the Argentine departed in November 2019. On the search for a new head coach once again after Antonio Conte parted with the Lilywhites at the end of March, Spurs also require a new managing director of football following Fabio Paratici's departure. Add to that improving the playing squad after another frustrating campaign, there is so much for Levy to do in N17 ahead of next season. In regards to the current players at the club, one star who could be on his way from Tottenham Hotspur Stadium this summer is Hugo Lloris. Joining from Lyon in the summer of 2012, the Frenchman's future is a major talking point at present as he nears the final few years of his career. READ MORE:Tottenham already have their own Erling Haaland and Kevin De Bruyne despite goal output concern   The 36-year-old, who will soon enter the last 12 months of his Tottenham contract, has made a number of high-profile errors this term and this summer seems to be the ideal time for both parties to go their separate ways. Tottenham need to plan ahead for the coming years and a new goalkeeper is pivotal in their masterplan. Lloris will certainly not be short of options if his spell in the capital does end this summer, with the goalkeeper mentioned in regards to a lucrative deal in Saudi Arabia for next season. Struggling to find the World Cup winner's long-term successor in the past, Tottenham must find their solution over the coming months. Linked with a number of goalkeepers recently, including Jordan Pickford, Giorgi Mamardashvili and Robert Sanchez, a move for Brentford shot-stopper David Raya is a deal that does make a lot of sense from a Tottenham perspective. football.london reported in February that the Spaniard is one of the names on Spurs' shortlist as they bid to find Lloris' successor. Making a huge name for himself in west London following some excellent displays between the sticks, Raya has two seasons' worth of Premier League experience under his belt following the Bees' Championship play-off final success in 2021. Raya has come in for plenty of plaudits over the past two years, with Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp even stating that the goalkeeper could "wear the No.10 shirt" due to his excellent range of passing. That is an area Lloris has struggled with and it is now a must for teams who want to play out from the back. Securing a deal for Raya would also help Tottenham out in terms of their homegrown numbers as he is classed as homegrown after joining Blackburn Rovers as a 16-year-old. Something Tottenham have had real trouble with in the past due to the high amount of non-homegrown players at the club, signing Raya would certainly make things easier on that front. The 27-year-old will have a number of clubs chasing his signature this summer and those interested may be able to strike quite a good deal with Brentford due to his contract status. Out of contract in west London in 2024, the fact Raya is soon set to enter the final year of his deal means his transfer valuation, which is £21.6m on Transfermarkt, will decrease. That in turn opens up the door for Tottenham and other interested clubs to save millions in the process, thus allowing them to put the money towards other summer transfers. Speaking back in February, Raya confirmed to The Athletic that he had turned down two new contract offers from Brentford. Hinting that a departure could be on the cards, he also made it clear that he wants to play in Europe and contend for trophies. "I want to focus on playing games and not think too much about my future," explained the Spain international. "I have a contract here, so I'm willing to finish that, but you never know what's going to happen in the summer. "Maybe the club wants to sell, maybe not. Maybe I want to stay. I want to focus on football and see what happens. The club will decide the price and if a club wants to pay money, that will be it. I'm not worried about that. I'm not in charge of that." He added: "I want to play in Europe and I want to fight to win a title. I want to fight to win a European title. I trust myself to be able to play in those types of games." Tottenham will hopefully be in a position to offer Raya European football in 2022/23 as they are currently trying to secure a top-six finish after falling away from Champions League contention. Excelling for Brentford since his move to the club from Blackburn Rovers, Raya looks likely to take the next step in his career this summer. Certainly a transfer opportunity for Tottenham, plenty of Spurs fans will be hoping it is one they take up as they aim to find the man who can take on Lloris' gloves and play a pivotal role for the club over the coming years. READ NEXT:  Tottenham news: Daniel Levy makes major manager decision as Napoli sporting director eyed   Premier League fifth-place Champions League qualification rules explained amid Tottenham hope   Tottenham and Ryan Mason facing Cristian Romero challenge as Antonio Conte verdict rings true   Tottenham's possible 25-man squad for next season includes seven transfer deals for new manager   Transfer news LIVE: Latest news, views and rumours from Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham  