The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Suzie Glassman or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Suzie Glassman,
                                                    Jennifer Lyerly, O.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Cataracts are the leading cause of age-related vision decline and preventable blindness. In fact, the National Institute of Health predicts that with the remainder of the baby boomer generation turning 65 in the next few years, the number of people with visual impairment will double by 2050[1]Visual impairment, blindness cases in U.S. expected to double by 2050. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Accessed 11/29/2022. . Fortunately, the surgery required to remove cataracts has advanced by leaps and bounds in the last few decades. Here’s what you need to know about the cost of cataract surgery—and the factors you may want to consider when it comes to life after your cataracts are removed. During cataract surgery, an ophthalmologist (eye surgeon) makes a small incision either manually or with the assistance of a laser into the eye and removes the patient’s natural lens through a process called phacoemulsification, says Karl Olsen, M.D, an ophthalmologist based in Fort Collins, Colorado. The surgeon then replaces the lens, which sits directly behind the iris, with an artificial one designed to restore the patient’s distance vision. This artificial intraocular lens implant is called an IOL, and you’ll have several choices to make regarding which type of IOL you want to pursue to design your desired vision after surgery. Standard IOLs are set for correcting distance or driving vision, and you will need reading glasses to see clearly for near vision tasks. Premium or upgraded lenses can also correct astigmatism, a condition that makes vision blurry at all distances, or even help the patient see nearby objects or materials without needing reading glasses. These are called multifocal, accommodating, or extended depth of focus IOLs. There are two types of cataract surgery commonly performed in the U.S. and one that’s more widely used in less developed parts of the world, according to Omar Shakir, M.D., an ophthalmologist based in Greenwich, Connecticut. According to MyVision.org, a nonprofit panel of experts who provide fact-based information on eye care, the average cost of cataract surgery is $3,500 per eye and can reach as high as $7,000 per eye. Medicare and most private insurance plans only pay for what’s considered medically necessary treatment in a hospital or surgery center. Furthermore, factors that can influence the total cost include the type of intraocular lens used, where you live, where you receive the surgery and any in-network or out-of-network expenses you incur throughout the process. Lens types: Premium lenses, such as those meant to restore near and intermediate vision and correct astigmatism, aren’t covered by insurance because they’re deemed elective rather than medically necessary, says Dr. Shakir. Location: The geographic location of the surgeon and the site where the surgery is performed can alter the total cost. Physicians in large networks or areas with a higher cost of living often negotiate higher reimbursement rates with insurance companies. In fact, hospitals can be up to four times more expensive than surgery centers because they negotiate higher reimbursement through Medicare, says Dr. Olsen. In network vs. out of network: Your doctor may be in network, but if they operate at an out-of-network facility or contract with an out-of-network anesthesiologist, you may be hit with a higher bill, explains Dr. Shakir. Medicare covers up to 80% of the costs of cataract surgery, leaving patients to pay their deductible and the remaining 20%. Some types of Medicare plans pay higher percentages of the total cost of the procedure. Medicare also pays for one pair of glasses with standard frames after the procedure—but only through a Medicare-approved supplier of “durable medical equipment.” Not all doctors’ offices have this designation, so it’s important to ask if this is a benefit you want to use. And Medicare only pays for what is medically necessary, so some patients may have to wait for their cataracts to become more advanced before insurance pays to have them removed. Your Clear Vision Partner Experience unmatched expertise and savings at LASIK.com, with the nation's largest network of trusted surgeons. On LASIK.com Medicaid users may qualify for cataract surgery coverage, but the amount will vary from state to state. That’s because vision care is considered an optional benefit, so state’s can determine how much, if any, coverage to provide. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine lists the vision benefits offered by each state’s Medicaid program. Funds available in health savings accounts (HSAs) and flexible spending accounts (FSAs) can help cover any out-of-pocket expenses, including a more expensive lens, according to both Dr. Olsen and Dr. Shakir. Certain charitable organizations, such as Mission Cataract USA and Operation Sight, also help provide free or low-cost surgery to those who can’t otherwise afford it. Before settling on a surgeon or facility, however, research how other patients rate their experiences, and use word of mouth to find an excellent eye surgeon in your area, advises Dr. Olsen. What’s more, be aware of any extra costs that could come with follow-up visits and who you’ll see during those visits, he recommends. Some ophthalmologists comanage their surgery patients with an optometrist at a different location. “All of the costs associated with surgery and the care afterward should be very transparent,” says Dr. Shakir. “Make sure you know ahead of time anything you’re expected to [pay] out of pocket.” Another consideration: “A more expensive lens or technology may cost more up front but allow you to save money by not having to purchase eyeglasses or contacts,” says Dr. Shakir. Your doctor will talk through all available options with you and their pros and cons to help you make the best decision about which IOL option will provide you with the range of vision you desire. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Suzie Glassman is a freelance writer specializing in health, wellness, fitness, mental health and parenting. She's also a part-time fitness and nutrition coach based in Denver, Colorado. Suzie loves breaking down complex scientific information into understandable and actionable advice and is passionate about helping others improve their quality of life. She and her husband are parents to a 12-year-old boy, 10-year-old girl and two rescue dogs.
			 
				Dr. Jennifer Lyerly is an optometrist who specializes in contact lenses and myopia management and practices in Raleigh, North Carolina. She’s the founder and author of Eyedolatry, an educational blog that focuses on patient communication, practice guides for new optometrists and women’s leadership in optometry. She has also written articles for Review of Optometry, Invision Magazine, Review of Optometric Business, Women in Optometry, and Optometry Times, as well as served as a contributor for O: The Oprah Magazine. Dr. Lyerly is a co-founder of Defocus Media, optometry’s leading livestream and podcast platform.
			