Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Lily Rose, 
                              
              Kaylyn McKenna
 
Updated on:  January 4, 2023 / 11:48 AM EST
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Amazon has kicked off its New Years' sale with tons of discounts on fitness tech, equipment, apparel and more. One of the best deals that you can get today is on this 4.6-star-rated Schwinn Fitness indoor cycling bike.  The bike is compatible with popular third-party cycling apps, like Peloton and Zwift. It features a full-color, backlit LCD console that monitors your heart rate, speed, time, distance and calories burned while cycling. It also has an adjustable race-style seat and dual-link foot pedals with toe cages and clips for a secure ride. Schwinn Fitness indoor cycling bike, $799 (reduced from $1,199) Want to boost your recovery? Select Theragun devices are on sale now.      Theragun Pro is a professional-grade device constructed for physical therapists, trainers and other professionals, but it's also great for athletes, however amateur. Like the Theragun Elite, it is equipped with an OLED screen and a customizable speed range of 1,750 to 2,400 PPMs (percussions per minute) with three presets. However, instead of 40 pounds of force, the Pro boasts 60 and is the only model with an adjustable arm, allowing for easier use.     The Theragun Pro comes with six attachments: a dampener, standard ball, wedge, thumb, cone and super soft tip. A two-year warranty (compared with just one with the less expensive models) makes it more appealing for anyone who might use the gadget daily.      Theragun Pro, $400 (reduced from $599)  The Theragun Elite is really simple to use -- you control the intensity of the massage via an up or down press of a button and by varying the pressure you apply on your muscle. (We recommend, from first-hand experience, starting with a lighter touch.) The triangular design makes it really easy to reach all areas of your body on your own, at just the right angles -- even those otherwise hard-to-reach spots on your back. It includes five attachments -- a dampener, standard ball, thumb, cone and wedge.     It's a high-end splurge, to be sure, but trust us -- you'll wind up getting a lot of use out of this massage gun once you know how good it makes you feel after a session.     Theragun Elite, $298 (regularly $399)  Theragun Elite, $299 (regularly $400)  Prime is Theragun's most basic, standard-sized model, with up to 30 pounds of force. It also offers a five-speed range with customizable speed through the Theragun app and weighs 2.2 pounds. It's also equipped with four attachments: dampener, standard ball, thumb and cone.      This model is quite user-friendly and will suit the needs of the average person suffering from muscle soreness, tightness and pain.     Theragun Prime, $198 (regularly $299)  Theragun Prime $199 (regularly $300)  The Theragun Mini weighs just 1.43 pounds. It offers 20 pounds of force and three speeds -- 1,750; 2,100 and 2,400 PPMs. While the three standard-size Theragun models are Bluetooth enabled, the mini is not. The Mini may not replace the need for a full-size, full-powered massage gun, but it is a great supplementary option for anyone who travels often or wants to bring a massage gun to the gym.     The Mini is covered under a one-year warranty.     Theragun Mini, $199  We've found stationary bikes that suit a wide variety of budgets, perfect for meeting your New Years fitness goals. Shop bikes from Peloton, Schwinn and more.      Clip into a Peloton Bike for a cycling workout like no other. This small-space-friendly bike features delta-compatible pedals, a resistance knob for manual control, a two-channel, rear-facing stereo speaker system with 16W of total power, 10-point multitouch touchscreen, USB micro port, 3.5mm headphone jack, Bluetooth 4.0 connectivity, 5MP front-facing camera, built-in microphone and volume buttons.     A Peloton All-Access Membership ($44 monthly) must be purchased separately to access Peloton content on your Bike. Membership offers unlimited access to Peloton's entire library of content available on your new Bike and through the Peloton App.      Original Peloton Bike, $1,195 (regularly $1,445)  This bike with a tablet holder has an LCD console, Bluetooth capability and a 40-pound flywheel. It tracks RPMs, heart rate, calories, time and distance. Try it with the Peloton app.     Schwinn Fitness IC3, $700 (reduced from $799)  This stationary bike has a belt-driven system for a smooth and quiet ride, an adjustable non-slip handlebar and a tablet holder. Its LCD monitor tracks time, speed, distance and calories burned. There is a water bottle holder and wheels on the bike, so that it can easily be moved.     Yosuda indoor cycling bike, $220 after coupon (reduced from $440)  This spin bike has a weighted flywheel and quiet belt drive system. It has an adjustable seat and handlebars, plus a water bottle holder. Stream your workout on your TV or a laptop in front of you, or invest in a tablet holder for this bike's handlebars, as it doesn't come with a tablet or workout streaming subscription.     Sunny Health & Fitness indoor exercise bike, $369 (reduced from $399)  Rowing is become the hot new fitness trend. These home rowing machines make an excellent holiday gift.      The Hydrow rowing machine features an adjustable 22-inch HD screen, an aluminum and steel frame and a customizable footbed. The Hydrow Rower fits heights up to a 36-inch inseam and weights up to 375 pounds. Rated 4.8 stars at Best Buy.     Learn more about the Hydrow rower, here.  Hydrow Rower, $2,250 (reduced from $2,495) Hydrow Rower + 1 year Hydrow subscription, $2,701 (reduced from $2,951) The Hydrow Rower's small-space-suitable successor features a 16-inch HD screen, stainless steel seat track, durable polymer frame and an adjustable footbed. Despite its smaller size, the Hydrow Wave also fits heights up to a 36-inch inseam and weights up to 375 pounds.      Hydrow Wave rowing machine, $1,695  This storage kit includes a bracket, strap and detailed installation guide, so you can store your Hydrow Rower in a space-saving, upright position.     Hydrow upright storage kit, $80  If the weather outside is frightful, you might as well workout inside where it's warm. We've found treadmill gift ideas that suit a variety of budgets.     The NordicTrack T Series 6.5 S treadmill is equipped with one-touch, zero to 10 percent incline control, can reach speeds of up to 10 mph, and be folded up into the frame for storage. It has a 300-pound capacity.     "Precise and well-crafted, the unit smoothly folds upright to reduce the footprint in my living space," reviewer Morgan Powers says. "The console immediately synced with my home Wi-Fi. Graphics/audio on the 10-inch monitor are crystal clear."     The treadmill is available in two varieties: one with a five-inch display screen; and, one with a 10-inch display screen.      NordicTrack T Series 6.5 S treadmill (5" inch display screen), $699  NordicTrack T Series 6.5 S treadmill (10" inch display screen), $999 Consider this treadmill desk for the friend or family member who works from home and wants to get more movement into their daily routine.      The adjustable work station has a 350-pound lifting capacity. The treadmill desk can be customized to have the finish, desk shape, top size and accessories of your choice.      Jarvis treadmill desk, $3,098 (reduced from $3,204) Know someone who works from home and doesn't have a ton of space? This mini walking treadmill is the perfect size to slide under a standing desk. When it's not in use, this fitness machine can be folded to almost half its size for easy storage.      Choose from five colors.     WalkingPad C2 Mini foldable walking treadmill, $550 (regularly $600)  Turn your office into a home gym. These apartment-friendly workout setups will transform your space and your body.     FightCamp is an at-home boxing gym experience that combines boxing and bodyweight exercises to give the user a full-body workout. The fitness device tracks your movements to show your progress and help you improve your boxing skills over time.      FightCamp packages are fully customizable, with the essentials - trackers and a bag - starting at $499.     FightCamp, $499 and up  FITURE uses motion-engine technology to track key movement points on your body to provide real-time form feedback. The reflective fitness device can offer tips to correct your technique, improve your workout, power seamless gesture controls and reduce the risk of injury.     Explore popular classes including strength, boxing, yoga, cardio sculpt, pilates, barre, HIIT, stretching, meditation and customized workouts.      FITURE Core smart workout mirror home gym, $1,195 (reduced from $1,495) Track your fitness goals this year with a top-rated wearable. Shop smart watches and smart jewelry from Oura, Fitbit, Apple, Samsung and more.     The Oura Ring tracks how well you sleep, your daily movement and heart rate, can help set health goals, take you through guided meditations and more. This small wearable can sync your health and workout data from your favorite apps through Apple Health, Google Fit, Strava and Natural Cycles.     Available in two styles and five metal finishes.      Oura Ring Gen3, $349  The Fitbit Sense 2 is an advanced fitness tracker that tracks heart health, sleep, exercise and more. It includes an ECG app that can assess wearers for heart-rhythm irregularity, including atrial fibrillation. It also has an electrodermal-activity sensor that records your skin temperature to measure stress.     Fitbit Premium members can receive a "Daily Readiness Score" that tells you if you're ready to exercise or should focus on recovery.  It's no longer on sale but is still a great buy.     Fitbit Sense, $230 (reduced from $250) The Apple Watch Ultra is designed to be a more rugged and durable option for athletes and adventurers. It provides up to 36 hours of life on a single charge with standard use or 60 hours of battery life with the soon-to-be-released battery optimization setting. It is made with a stronger titanium alloy material for improved impact resistance. It also offers a brighter display and a second speaker for better sound and display visibility during outdoor use. Apple says it's optimized for diving and water sports.     The Apple Watch Ultra provides enhanced GPS functionality to trace your steps and improve navigation for outdoor expeditions. There is also an action button that can be used to more accurately track your workouts by marking segments of your workout.     Apple Watch Ultra (GPS + cellular, 49mm), $779 (reduced from $799)  The Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 is an upgrade from the popular Samsung Galaxy Watch 4. It features 10W smart-charging capabilities, a notable upgrade from the slower 5W charging offered by the prior model. It also offers an advanced workout algorithm and sleep tracking technology.     The Galaxy Watch 5 features an advanced bioactive sensor that collects more accurate data. This data can be managed and tracked in the Samsung Health app.     This is the first time that Samsung is offering its sapphire glass on its non-premium smartwatch options. (Sapphire glass isn't actually glass. It is a ceramic that mimics the transparency of glass and offers more durability.)     Like prior Galaxy Watch models, the Galaxy Watch 5 is available in 40mm and 44mm display sizes. It is also available in five colors.      Samsung Galaxy Watch 5, $240 and up  A water-resistant, budget-friendly alternative to the Apple Watch, and compatible with both Android and iOS, the Amazfit Bip U boasts a longer battery life—up to nine days per charge—and a variety of activity tracking options.      Measure heart rate, blood oxygen levels, breathing, sleep quality and even stress levels. Women can track periods and get reminders when it's almost that time of the month.      Amazfit Bip U, $45 (reduced from $60) Released in late 2021, the slender, Alexa-enabled Amazon Halo View measures heart rate, activity, sleep and even blood-oxygen levels. It also offers connectability to popular health apps, such as Headspace and Bettersleep, as well as connectivity to your phone. It also boasts a seven-day battery life.       Another added bonus? Each watch comes with a 12-month membership subscription with access to workout and programs. After the trial period, it auto-renews at $4 per month.      Amazon Halo View, $50 (reduced from $80)  The latest incarnation of the popular Charge line from Fitbit, this well-equipped activity and health tracker packs advanced technology into a slender device and features a color touchscreen. The smartphone-enabled device helps you manage stress and stay on top of heart health and sleep.      Android users can even respond to text messages.     Fitbit Charge 5, $130 (reduced from $180)  A budget-friendly, no-frills Fitbit that gets the job done, this easy-to-use, entry-level activity and sleep tracker offers a whopping 10-day battery life, various exercise modes, and 24/7 heart rate tracking. New subscribers receive a one-year, free trial of Fitbit Premium.      Available in three colors (black, lunar white and desert rose) and with multiple accessory options.      Fitbit Inspire 2, $57 (reduced from $100)  The Garmin Instinct 2 Series was introduced in February. It's built not just to be worn, but to be actively worn. It's an outdoorsy, thermal- and shock-resistant GPS smartwatch that boasts damage- and scratch-resistant glass. It measures your heart rate, stress level, sleep metrics, blood oxygen, your fitness age and more. It delivers daily workout prompts, comes with built-in workout and sport apps and even tracks your mountain-biking stats, if any. Download apps from Garmin's Garmin Connect IQ store to up the watch's game even more, and track everything from hydration to menstrual cycles. The battery will last up to 30 hours in GPS mode -- and up to 28 days in smartwatch mode. Or get the solar version for what Garmin says will be unlimited battery life.      The Instinct 2 Series comes in two case sizes: 40mm and 45mm. It also comes in a range of editions, from standard to surf and more. Pictured above is the 40mm, solar, standard-edition Instinct 2 in mist gray. This version of the watch lists for $450.     Garmin Instinct 2 Series (40mm) standard edition, solar (mist gray), $450 The premium Garmin Epix, launched in January, is not just another outdoor-ready Garmin smartwatch -- it's an outdoor-ready Garmin smartwatch with a luxe look. Billed as a "premium multisport watch," the Epix features an AMOLED display, and, in a nice touch, comes with preloaded maps to thousands of golf courses and ski resorts worldwide. It boasts a number of health- and fitness-monitoring powers, and includes features that'll help you on the next ski run, or surfing wave. The battery runs for 16 days in smartwatch mode, and 42 hours in GPS mode. The Garmin Epix lists at $900 and up.      Garmin Epix (Sapphire-White Titanium), $895 and up  Complement any fitness gift with some top-rated workout wear. Shop our top-rated sneaker and athleisure picks.      These futuristic-looking leggings provide protection and cushioning for your knees while you workout. MAÄT's moisture-wicking, stretchy leggings are designed with ultra-flexible ribbed knee pads that pad the area without being bulky, and are tapered to put wider coverage where it's needed.      "I wore these leggings to a pilates class," said CBS Essentials senior writer Lily Rose. "I normally get knee pain when I use the reformer, but these leggings really cushioned the area and helped me hold my poses. Plus, the material is really soft, stretchy and the leggings are flattering."     Select from three colors.      MAÄT leggings, $148  These Girlfriend Collective leggings are one of Oprah's Favorite Things 2022. The TV icon loves these "sweat-wicking, high-compression and high-waisted," leggings from size-inclusive brand Girlfriend Collective, made out of recycled plastic bottles.      Available in sizes XS to 6XL.     Girlfriend Collective compression pocket leggings, $70 (reduced from $88)  Reviewers rave about Colorfulkoala's Lululemon Align-lookalike leggings (and they're Essentials bestsellers). The tie-dye option, which comes in six colorways, is currently on sale. These leggings have a seamless waistband with a hidden pocket.     "I cannot get enough of Colorfulkoala," an Amazon reviewer says. "I can't stop buying them! They are so comfy, fit so great and are cheap! They're squatproof and cute to wear out. I almost don't want to share how good these are because I hate when they sell out!"     Colorfulkoala high-waisted tie-dye leggings, $30 (reduced from $35)  These Athleta leggings are designed for medium-to-high-impact workouts at the gym or outdoors. They're made of recycled SuperSonic fabric with supportive compression. They also feature back drop-in pockets to hold your phone or essentials at the gym.     Athleta Elation Train 7/8 workout tight, $60 and up  These Bandier workout leggings are made with silky-smooth compression fabric and feature a double layer elastic waistband to keep your leggings in place while you're moving around.       "These high-waisted Center Stage leggings are perfect for both working out and lounging around." wrote one verified buyer. "They hold up for long runs, yoga, hit training, etc. They also shape your legs nicely."         These leggings come in two fabric options; All Motion and sport rib. All Motion is a high-compression, quick-drying fabric. Sport rib is a ribbed stretchy quick-drying fabric. You can also choose from capri, mid-rise, high waist and high waist with a pocket.         Bandier All Access Center Stage high-waisted leggings, $98 and up  You can also complete the look with a matching bra.        Bandier Front Row sports bra, $80   These ThirdLove Kinectic performance pocket leggings are great for running, HIIT classes, cardio boxing and other cardio activities. Made with dry-feel performance fabric and a lightly compressive fit, these leggings provide the perfect balance between performance and comfort.            ThirdLove Kinectic performance pocket leggings, $74  Stay warm during outdoor runs in this Lululemon jacket. This oversized half-zip is made with breathable cotton-blend fleece fabric. It features a kangaroo pocket with hidden phone sleeve and the elastic zipper pull doubles as an emergency hair tie.      Select from eight colors. Sizes run from XS to XXL.     Lululemon Scuba oversized funnel neck half zip, $118  These slim-fit shorts are made with a lightweight material that features sweat-wicking tech.      Choose from 15 colors. Shorts run from XS to 3X.     Gymshark Arrival 5" shorts, $26  Vuori makes some of the softest athleisure on the market. These sweatpants feature a straight leg and relaxed fit. The gym essential is made with stretch terry fabric and features a soft, brushed interior.     Choose from three colors. Sizes run from XS to XXL.     Vuori Austin sweatpant, $110  These popular leggings are made with a supersoft knit fabric and feature a high-rise fold over waistband for unrestricted comfort during yoga. They are designed for low to medium-sweat workouts like yoga and pilates.   Outdoor Voices Freeform 7/8 high waist leggings, $88  These leggings from Venus Williams' brand are perfect for getting active on a cold day. They're light and breathable, but still warm and cozy enough to wear for outdoor workouts during winter. The ribbed fabric is moisture-wicking and stretchy.       EleVen by Venus Williams Level Up leggings, $108  This long-sleeve is made with Under Armour's super-light HeatGear fabric which delivers superior coverage (keeps you warm) without weighing you down.     Choose from 22 colors. Sizes run from XS to 4X in select colors.      Under Armour men's HeatGear compression long-sleeve T-shirt, $22 (regularly $35)  With an impressive 4.5-star rating, Nike's Metcon 7 sneakers are a favorite in the workout world. They're great shoes for weight lifting, with wide, flat heels and an inner plate that helps with weight distribution. The cushioned midsoles offer plenty of support for cardio, while rubber treads provide a secure grip on the training floor. These shoes even have a tab that locks down your laces to keep you from tripping mid-workout.     "By far the best Metcons I have bought from Nike," a reviewer wrote. "I am able to run an easy mile with these shoes and squat and deadlift without having to switch shoes."     Nike Metcon 7 sneakers are available in both men's and women's sizes.     Nike Metcon 7, $130  Avid runners love the Ghost, one of the most popular sneaker styles from Brooks. The latest version, the Ghost 15, offers ample cushioning for a soft, smooth ride from start to finish and features an updated midsole that reacts to your unique stride and provides smooth transitions.           They are available on Amazon with Amazon Prime's Try Before You Buy feature, so you can try these shoes out for 7 days for free before buying them to make sure that they are the right fit for you.         Women's Brooks Ghost 15, $140  At $250, APL's Tracer is the priciest option on this list. But with more than 100 five-star reviews, it's definitely an investment worth considering. Designed to handle every level of intensity in the gym, the Tracer is crafted with highly breathable fabric and has a non-stretch forefoot to keep your feet centered for extra stability in the shoe. The midsole has medium cushioning for a balance between support and a low profile.     "This is my second pair of Techloom, great all around training shoes," a reviewer wrote. "They're lightweight but strong, love 'em!"     All of APL's shoes are unisex. If your size in men's is sold out, you can select a women's size and adjust the fit by a size and half, and vice versa. For example, a size 7 in men's is a size 8.5 in women's.      Athletic Propulsion Labs TechLoom Tracer, $250  The Powerlift 4 shoes from Adidas are designed specifically for weightlifting, with a high-density, die-cut midsole and an intentionally snug fit for maximum stability. The non-slip outsole and adjustable hook-and-loop strap will help you feel more secure while you lift.     "Brilliant fit, true to size," raved a reviewer. "The benefit of these shoes is you're able keep balance super well on squat and they force you to push with your heel resulting in much better form and less risk of injury."     Men's Adidas Powerlift 4, $100  Hoka's Clifton 8 running shoes boast a streamlined silhouette, breathable mesh upper and foam midsole for extra cushioning while pounding the pavement. With a 4.5-star rating (out of more than 1,000 reviews) on the Hoka site, it's no wonder the Clifton 8 is one of the brand's bestselling shoes. Available in both men's and women's sizes.     "This is my second pair of Hokas and I really like them. They are comfortable and provide a lot of cushion. I am in the medical field and always on my feet. These provide great cushioning and I feel great at the end of the day," a reviewer wrote. "I have another pair that I use for exercise and they are perfect for long walks or runs."     Women's Hoka Clifton 8, $140  Men's Hoka Clifton 8, $140  Nike's popular Pegasus shoes first came out in 1983. They continue to be one of the brand's top selling shoes. Described as a "workhorse with wings," Nike's latest design iteration of the Pegasus shoe offers cushioned support, durability and breathability.     "Originally bought this shoe for training/running and [it] has been an incredibly comfortable and durable light shoe," a reviewer raved. "One of the only shoes that has been reliable for me."     Whether you're aiming for long distance on the trail or sprinting on the track, the Air Zoom Pegasus is a reliable running shoe -- and it's currently on sale. Available in men's and women's sizes.      Women's Nike Air Zoom Pegasus 38, $73 (reduced from $120)  Give the gift of a boutique workout experience. Check out the best fitness subscription gift ideas from Obé, ClassPass, Alo Moves and so much more.     Strive for five (workouts per week) with Obé Fitness. As the company's mantra encourages, finding the inspiration to work out often is extra easy with Obé's collection of more than 6,000 on-demand classes, plus 22 daily classes available via livestream. The virtual fitness subscription service offers a wide range of workout sessions, from dance, yoga and Pilates to equipment-based classes such as cycling, bounce (indoor trampoline) and foam rolling. Class lengths vary anywhere from 5 minutes to an hour, making it easy to fit in a workout around any schedule.     The benefits to Obé Fitness include the already existent bank of on-demand classes; the affordable monthly subscription cost; and the convenience of workout classes you can take in your living room. The overall neon-meets-pastel, '80s-inspired aesthetic of every class is an added bonus, alongside the reportedly peppy and optimistic workout instructors.     An Obé Fitness subscription starts at $25 a month, but if you prefer, you can pay annually for $170 (roughly $14 a month). You can also try Obé Fitness free for seven days.      Access classes via the Obé Fitness app, or stream them through your Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku, FireTV, Airplay or a simple HDMI and laptop set-up.     Obé Fitness, $17 per month and up  If in-person fitness classes are more your speed, ClassPass could be for you. A ClassPass membership has four tiers available at various price points, and each tier allots a certain number of monthly credits to redeem for fitness and wellness activities in your area. Credits can apply to range of activities, from cycling classes to cryotherapy sessions. While in-person classes are clearly the focus of ClassPass, credits can also apply to virtual sessions, and a membership grants access to more than 4,000 free, on-demand online workouts.     The benefits to a ClassPass subscription include the flexibility and variety that comes with a credit system: change your fitness routine every month if you like. Going through a busy month? You can roll up to 10 credits into the next month and make up for lost time later. And if you travel frequently but don't want to skip your workout, ClassPass offers services in cities across the country (and even some internationally) so you can take your credits on the road.     The cost of a ClassPass membership can vary slightly based on your location, but costs for the lowest plan start at $19 monthly for eight credits, and can go as high as $199 for 100 credits. Right now, you can also get up to 20 credits to try for one month free.     ClassPass, $15 per month and up  Future Fitness is a wellness app that goes beyond on-demand fitness classes -- although there are plenty of those included. When you sign up, you'll be matched with a fitness expert to serve as your digital personal trainer, who will work with you to create a custom fitness plan that fits your goals, needs and schedule.     Once you're matched with your trainer, you'll receive weekly workout plans, along with daily check-ins, motivation quotes and critiques or guidance based on the data your trainer observes from your workout. Future works exclusively with an Apple Watch to collect your fitness data, but if you don't have the latest Series 7, or any Apple Watch for that matter, Future will loan you one free of charge with a refundable deposit.     A subscription to Future Fitness will run you $149 monthly, but you can try your first month for $19.     Future Fitness, $149 per month  This subscription-based fitness app comes from -- you may have guessed it -- Alo Yoga. The maker of popular yoga-friendly clothing and workout gear, Alo Yoga also has a fitness app that is, of course, focused on yoga, offering vinyasa, hatha, ashtanga, and restorative classes. But Alo Moves also boasts a range of other on-demand workouts, such as HIIT (high-intensity interval training), barre and Pilates, as well as mindfulness sessions that include breath training and sound baths.     When you first sign up with Alo Moves, you can take a short quiz to help the app make workout recommendations based on your fitness level and goals. You can also search for classes yourself and filter by instructor, style, difficulty, intensity, and duration. Classes can last anywhere from 10 to 90 minutes, and are taught by one of more than 70 Alo-apparel-clad instructors, often in picturesque locations. On-demand classes are accessible on nearly any device, from a smartphone to an Apple TV. Live classes are only accessible via desktop or laptop computer right now.     Beyond beautiful backdrops and a wide range of class options, Alo Moves isn't doing anything groundbreaking in the world of fitness apps. But if you're an aspiring yogi or already love the brand's apparel and workout gear, then this app is definitely worth trying out.     Alo Moves usually costs $20 monthly, or $200 annually. You can also try a 14-day free trial.     Alo Moves, $99 per year (or $20 per month)  Apple enthusiasts, and people who strive to close their daily rings, will appreciate the limited, but still solid, workout offerings of Apple Fitness+. This app works with your Apple Watch and streams workout classes to iPhones, iPads and Apple TVs, so if you're already outfitted with Apple's latest tech, incorporating Apple Fitness into your life should be no sweat.     The fitness subscription offers nearly 2,000 studio-style classes across 11 exercise categories, including HIIT, yoga, core, strength, treadmill, cycling, rowing, dance, Pilates, meditation and mindful cooldown. As you participate in classes, your Apple Watch will track your progress with metrics such as heart rate, calories burned and time elapsed, as well as close your activity rings accordingly.     Apple Fitness+ costs $10 monthly, or $80 annually. Right now, Apple offers three months of Fitness+ free when you purchase an Apple Watch. You can also try the premium fitness subscription free for one month if you already own an Apple Watch.     Apple Fitness+, $80 per year (or $10 per month)  Lily Rose is a senior writer for CBS Essentials and the site's expert in home appliances such as washers, dryers, refrigerators and ranges. When she's not writing about how you can upgrade your laundry room, she's writing about home and kitchen essentials that will transform your space. Her favorite appliance is her air fryer. She firmly believes that it can make the crispiest sweet potato fries. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Sen. Mark Kelly of Arizona joined CBS News from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago to discuss, among other subjects, the race between former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris, maintaining a fair election and reaching across the aisle to Republicans.
         
          Delaware State Sen. Sarah McBride discusses President Biden's legacy and the "pride and gratitude" Democrats have for him ahead of his keynote speech on the first night of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago.
         
          Day 1 of the Democratic National Convention will feature addresses from President Biden and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. CBS News political director Fin Gómez has more on Clinton's speech and other notes about the convention, including how it differs from last month's Republican National Convention.
         
          The 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago will be the first time the Windy City has hosted the convention since 1996. Adriana Diaz breaks down why Chicago was picked to host this year's DNC.
         
          At least two people have died as a result of flash flooding that hit Connecticut and other parts of the Northeast. Parts of New Jersey and New York's Long Island were also hit hard. Nikki Battiste reports.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.