Dialectical analyses of the capitalist totality through a Marxist lens.  David Harvey’s Anti-Capitalist Chronicles is co-produced with Politics In Motion, a new nonprofit media platform. Consider supporting our work via Patreon. After five seasons hosted by Professor David Harvey and co-produced by Democracy@Work, all new episodes are now hosted and co-produced with Politics In Motion. You can listen to all previous podcasts here or watch them in YouTube. Public Lecture: The Story of Capital Sponsored by the Institute for Critical Social InquiryThe New School66 W 12th StThe Auditorium, Room A106New York, NY 10011 Monday, June 175:00PM – 6:30PM EDT Free event, registration required: Encuentro Internacional Experiencias locales e internacionales de gestión cultural comunitaria.FLACSO Ecuador20 May 2024 Friday May 3, 5PM-8:30 PM & Saturday May 4 10AM-8:30PM The People’s Forum (320 West 37th Street, New York City) Register here for the in-person conference. This event will also be livestreamed; In her justly-revered book, Abolition Geography, Ruth Wilson Gilmore articulates the prescience of the praxis, politics, and poetics of “abolition” as a central principle of liberation movements and social change. The book is a culmination of decades of Gilmore’s ardent and inexhaustible commitment not just to undo the injustices of the carceral state with its infrastructure of racial capitalism, but to formulate abolition as a condition of revolutionary possibility since, as she puts it, “mass incarceration is class war.”  Far from being a handy metaphor for the combined and uneven development of the world system, the prison is the material instantiation of global inequality where location at scale is a provocation to think activism as also, in its difference and intensities, confronting carcerality in all its manifestations.   The Center for Place, Culture and Politics’ 2024 conference intends to honor Gilmore’s contribution–in activism, politics, pedagogy, and theory—to an abolitionist agenda and is also crucially an invitation to think with her work on future imbrications of abolitionism with anti-racism, anti-capitalism, and anti-colonialism among a provocative array of allegiance to radical social transformation.  In this way the conference not only celebrates a career, but extends it. Click Here for more information on the conference, program, and speakers. Conference Program: Friday, May 3  5:15 Welcome   5:30-6:50 24 years of the Center for Place, Culture and Politics Kandice Chuh, Peter Hitchcock, David Harvey, Robyn C. Spencer-Antoine  7:00-8:20 Keynote Dialogue Rabab Abdulhadi and Ruth Wilson Gilmore in conversation  Saturday, May 4   9:45 Welcome  10:00-11:50 Thinking the State  Mythri Prasad-Aleyamma, Giacomo Bianchino, Christina M. Chica, Lexington Davis, Anthony Dest, Javiela Evangelista, Thauany Freire, Cynthia Yuan Gao, Nour Mohamad Jamil Hodeib, Zahra Khalid, Nerve V. Macaspac, Maria Luisa Mendonça, Laura Rivas, Benjamin Rubin, Shreya Subramani, Dominic Wetzel  12:00-1:30 Pedagogies of Third World Marxism  Mythri Prasad-Aleyamma, Zoe Alexander, Michele Cannon, Vincent DeLaurentis, Patrick DeDauw, Khouloud Mallak, Gabriel Meier, Meraz Mostafa, Brendan O’Connor, Bryan Welton  1:30-2:30 Lunch  2:30-4:30 Militant Knowledges Sonia Vaz Borges, Vijay Prashad, Mamyrah Dougé-Prosper  4:40-6:50 The Politics of Struggle /Abolition Futures Ujju Aggarwal, Mizue Aizeki, Miriam Ticktin, Laura Y. Liu  6:50-8:30 Celebration  More information available on the CPCP website.This conference is organized and sponsored by the Center for Place, Culture and Politics, the Graduate Center, CUNY and cosponsored by the Global Studies program, The New School and The Center for the Humanities at the Graduate Center, CUNY.It is free and open to the public.  From Verso Books: “For fifty years David Harvey has written and lectured on Capital, becoming one of the world’s foremost Marx scholars. In addition, his work on the history and geography of capitalist development has transformed our understanding of neoliberalism and the spread of inequalities across the globe. In this in-depth interview with Verso, Harvey recalls the formation of his Marxist ideas, intellectual influences, and writing. He also talks about the growth of the populist right and how that is connected to geographical electoral splits, Marx’s Grundrisse (which he has written a companion to), and Marx’s theories more broadly. In this shorter video, taken from the above, Harvey talks about Marx’s Grundrisse (and why the Covid lockdown meant he finally wrote a companion to Marx’s infamous notebooks): He is interviewed in both these videos by Sebastian Budgen, Editorial Director, Verso Books. David Harvey’s Companion to Marx’s Grundrisse, published earlier this year, builds upon his widely acclaimed companions to the first and second volumes of Capital. See all our Essential David Harvey reading here!” May 9, 2023 Readings: A Companion to Marx’s Grundrisse, pages 405-434. Course Home May 2, 2023 Readings: A Companion to Marx’s Grundrisse, pages 363 – 404; Grundrisse 742-893. Course Home April 25, 2023 Readings: A Companion to Marx’s Grundrisse, pages 325-362; Grundrisse, pages 702-741. Course Home April 18, 2023 Readings: A Companion to Marx’s Grundrisse, pages 295-324; Grundrisse, pages 640-701. Course Home Institut La Boétie, Paris12 April 2023 “This conference is broadcast in its original version (English + French). This conference is the second organized by the geography department of the Institut La Boétie, as part of its chairs, on the occasion of the exceptional visit of David Harvey to France. David Harvey is a British geographer. He is the founder of critical geography and at the origin of the first spatial reading of Marxist theory. Today, the most cited geographer in the world, he is a reference for several generations of intellectuals around the world. After having presented in a first conference on April 8, 2023 his theory on the geography of capital, he will dialogue with Jean-Luc Mélenchon, co-president of the Institut La Boétie and former candidate for the presidential election. In this exceptional and unprecedented exchange, theoretical critical thought and transformative political action will mingle. The two will discuss together many subjects such as their conceptions of the city, the crisis of neoliberalism, the place of the State, the state of the left and social movements in Europe and in the world…” [Google Translate from Institut La Boétie event description.] Published by Verso Books.  David Harvey is a Distinguished Professor of Anthropology & Geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York (CUNY), the Director of Research at the Center for Place, Culture and Politics, and the author of numerous books. He has been teaching Karl Marx’s Capital for over 50 years. [Contact info] [Head shot] [CV] Twitter | Bluesky |Mastodon Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. 

							Email Address						

 




 
							Subscribe						
 Web hosting by Reclaim Hosting 
				© 2024 Reading Marx’s Capital with David Harvey
 
Theme by Anders Noren — Up ↑
 
													You must be logged in to post a comment.												