This video can not be played Women's World Cup 2023: Japan stride to last 16 after 4-0 Spain dismantlement - highlights Japan have fallen on harder times since the golden age when they won the 2011 Women's World Cup. Twelve years on from that triumph in Germany, could the good times be about to return? The Nadeshiko sent out a powerful message that they mean business at the 2023 edition by destroying Spain 4-0 in Wellington to finish top of Group C and advance to the last 16. "Japan's shape, defensive play, their counter-attacking play was a masterclass," said former Spain midfielder Vicky Losada on ITV. Former England forward Eniola Aluko added: "That's the best team I think we've seen in this World Cup in every way." A match against Norway back in New Zealand's capital on Saturday at 09:00 BST awaits Japan. Having gone out at the last-16 stage in France in 2019, are they good enough to go all the way this time? Japan thump Spain to book last-16 Norway tie Quiz: What do you know about the past 24 hours at World Cup? Go here for all the latest on the Women's World Cup Japan manager Futoshi Ikeda spent 15 minutes answering questions in his post-match news conference at the Wellington Regional Stadium before being clapped out of the room by the Japanese media. Earlier, his players left the pitch to a standing ovation after a thumping win over a Spain team who sit sixth in the Fifa rankings - five places above Japan. Japan look solid at the back and devastating going forward. They are yet to concede in three games in New Zealand, while they have scored a tournament-high 11 goals. In addition, Hinata Miyazawa is the leading scorer at the World Cup after adding two goals to the double she scored against Zambia in the opening group game. Incredibly, Japan outsmarted Spain despite having only 23% possession. "Japan don't waste chances," former Republic of Ireland goalkeeper Emma Byrne told ITV. "Three chances, three goals before half-time. Forget the possession stats - I'd rather have that." Japan led 3-0 at half time in this game, having scored from their only three touches in the opposition box This is just the second time Japan have won all of their group stage games in a single edition of the Women's World Cup, along with the 2015 tournament. Eight years ago they reached the final before losing to the United States in the final, and Losada believes they could make it all the way through to this final in Sydney on 20 August. "It's a masterclass by Japan," she added. "They've shown they can beat teams like Spain. It was a joy to watch from the Japanese side." Aluko added: "Japan showed composure in everything they did. Whether it was the finishing, the shape, defensively - even when they were attacking, when they lost the ball, their counter-attacking play was exceptional." The talent in Japan's squad runs deep. Ikeda made five changes to the side that defeated Costa Rica 2-0 in Dunedin five days ago, whereas Spain made just one alteration, fielding what looked close to their strongest possible side. Japan's starting XI against Spain featured Liverpool midfielder Fuka Nagano and West Ham duo Risa Shimizu and Honoka Hayashi, while Manchester City midfielder Yui Hasegawa came on as a substitute. There were impacts from the bench as Mina Tanaka scored a fine fourth goal following an assist by fellow substitute Miyabi Moriya. "In the first and second games, we had more time to work with the ball but had to be wary of the counter-attack," said Ikeda. "In this match against Spain, we knew we would have to defend for long periods. So we knew we would have to take advantage of every opportunity we had to play the game we wanted to.  "We were successful in this." 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.