Winnipeg
23° C, Cloudy Full Forecast © 2024 Winnipeg Free Press Quick Links Ways to support us Replica E-Edition Business Arts & Life Sports Opinion Media Homes Canstar Community news Betting Guides About Us This browser doesn't support push notifications at the moment. Check browsers features, update your browser or try to use one from the list of recommended to manage your notifications settings: If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings for this site. Just click button below and allow notifications for this site Note Safari 16.4+ working on iOS devices also need this site app to be installed at device's Home Screen for Push Notifications to work Notifications are blocked for this site. If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings. Usually you'd need to click on site options icon to the left of address bar and change notifications preferences/permissions from there Urgent and important stories  Noteworthy news and features  Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions Advertisement Advertise with us The mounds of ice and snow that can bury sidewalks in winter too often put people with mobility issues at risk of isolation or dangerous slips and falls, multiple delegates told council’s public works committee on Tuesday. Read this article for free:  Already have an account? Log in here » To continue reading, please subscribe: $19 $0 for the first 4 weeks* *No charge for 4 weeks then billed as $19 every four weeks (new subscribers and qualified returning subscribers only). Cancel anytime. The mounds of ice and snow that can bury sidewalks in winter too often put people with mobility issues at risk of isolation or dangerous slips and falls, multiple delegates told council’s public works committee on Tuesday. Read unlimited articles for free today:  Already have an account? Log in here » 
Hey there, time traveller!
		This article was published 10/04/2023 (496 days ago), so information in it may no longer be current. 
	 The mounds of ice and snow that can bury sidewalks in winter too often put people with mobility issues at risk of isolation or dangerous slips and falls, multiple delegates told council’s public works committee on Tuesday. Any effort to clear more sidewalks to “bare pavement” would mark a good first step to ensuring active transportation routes are accessible throughout every season, they argued. Marika Prokosh, who is visually impaired and not able to drive, said the condition of sidewalks is declining, making it increasingly difficult to get around on foot and by bus. MIKAELA MACKENZIE / WINNIPEG FREE PRESS The mounds of ice and snow that can bury sidewalks in winter too often put people with mobility issues at risk of isolation or dangerous slips and falls, multiple delegates told council’s public works committee on Tuesday. “Every year, it’s getting a little harder… It has an effect on how often I choose to go out (and so) it limits the scope of my life,” said Prokosh. Unexpected dips and inclines created by uneven snow clearing can be tough to avoid, she told reporters. Prokosh said she understands many factors, including cost, influence snow-clearing policies. But she stressed the city must also view the service through a disability lens. “What I’m looking for, ultimately, is for the city to figure out a way logistically, economically to ensure that, the majority of the time, the pavements are clear enough that wheelchairs and strollers and people with canes and walkers can pass them with minimal difficulty,” said Prokosh. Sidewalks covered in ice and snow can prove daunting to seniors, said Connie Newman, executive director of the Manitoba Association of Senior Communities. “Many seniors become shut-ins in winter because venturing out onto the sidewalks is just too dangerous,” said Newman. She told the committee the matter is a human rights issue, as mobility should be possible for people of all ages. “We should all feel safe to walk on our sidewalks… For many, six months of icy sidewalks limits us from getting to the grocery store, to the drug store, to exercise. Access to food is a basic human right,” said Newman. Coun. Matt Allard is making his fourth attempt to have the city explore clearing more sidewalks to bare pavement; three previous motions failed. Allard’s latest recommendation calls for city staff to report on options for a pilot project that would clear snow off sidewalks to a “bare pavement” standard on one street that connects to a bus stop in each council ward. He wants that report to review several options to achieve that, including: testing various de-icing material; plowing efforts specific to snow drifts and windrows; and reducing snow banks at intersections and crosswalks. Allard told the committee Tuesday the matter is an urgent human rights issue. MIKAELA MACKENZIE / WINNIPEG FREE PRESS FILES Sidewalks covered in ice and snow can prove daunting to seniors, said Connie Newman, executive director of the Manitoba Association of Senior Communities. “Do we need someone to bring the City of Winnipeg to the Manitoba human rights tribunal to demonstrate that their human rights have been violated… because they were not able to participate in society like any other able-bodied person could?” he asked. Under city policy, downtown sidewalks adjacent to major routes and collector streets are plowed to a paved surface “whenever conditions allow,” while such sidewalks outside downtown are maintained to a compacted snow surface. Plowing on all sidewalks on major routes and collector streets should be completed within 36 hours after an average storm ends. Sidewalks on residential streets should normally be maintained to a compacted snow surface, with plowing completed within five working days after it begins, the policy states. Some council members stressed work is underway to improve snow-clearing on active transportation paths. Mayor Scott Gillingham said a neighbourhood action team, whose tasks will include sidewalk snow clearing, will be hired by the end of this year. He noted city staff will report back in June on more options to improve snow clearing. “We need to do all we can to assist people to navigate our sidewalks and our streets. I want to see people able to get around,” said Gillingham. When asked if the city could pursue the bare pavement pilot project, the mayor suggested it could come at a significant cost. “We don’t know the price. I think the average person could … (imagine) what it may cost to clear snow to (bare pavement) on all sidewalks across the city,” said Gillingham. Coun. Janice Lukes, chairwoman of the public works committee, said she expects the June report to help enhance winter sidewalk clearing. JOHN WOODS / WINNIPEG FREE PRESS FILES Mayor Scott Gillingham said a neighbourhood action team, whose tasks will include sidewalk snow clearing, will be hired by the end of this year. “When you are harnessing Mother Nature… you’ve got to use many tools in your toolkit to get to the end result… The public service is looking at all kinds of things. New technologies emerge, new machines emerge, new approaches emerge. Winnipeg really leads the way in snow and ice removal,” said Lukes. Monday mornings The latest local business news and a lookahead to the coming week. Last year, council approved $3 million to buy 15 additional sidewalk-clearing machines to ramp up the city’s resources. Due to supply chain delays, those are expected to arrive around June and help improve clearing next winter. The public works committee voted to receive Allard’s motion as information, which means taking no immediate action on it. Council will cast the final vote on the matter. joyanne.pursaga@freepress.mb.ca Twitter: @joyanne_pursaga Joyanne PursagaReporter Joyanne is city hall reporter for the Winnipeg Free Press. A reporter since 2004, she began covering politics exclusively in 2012, writing on city hall and the Manitoba Legislature for the Winnipeg Sun before joining the Free Press in early 2020. Read more about Joyanne. Every piece of reporting Joyanne produces is reviewed by an editing team before it is posted online or published in print — part of the Free Press‘s tradition, since 1872, of producing reliable independent journalism. Read more about Free Press’s history and mandate, and learn how our newsroom operates. Our newsroom depends on a growing audience of readers to power our journalism. If you are not a paid reader, please consider becoming a subscriber. Our newsroom depends on its audience of readers to power our journalism. Thank you for your support. Joyanne PursagaReporter Joyanne is city hall reporter for the Winnipeg Free Press. A reporter since 2004, she began covering politics exclusively in 2012, writing on city hall and the Manitoba Legislature for the Winnipeg Sun before joining the Free Press in early 2020. Read more about Joyanne. Every piece of reporting Joyanne produces is reviewed by an editing team before it is posted online or published in print — part of the Free Press‘s tradition, since 1872, of producing reliable independent journalism. Read more about Free Press’s history and mandate, and learn how our newsroom operates. Our newsroom depends on a growing audience of readers to power our journalism. If you are not a paid reader, please consider becoming a subscriber. Our newsroom depends on its audience of readers to power our journalism. Thank you for your support. Advertisement Advertise With Us Advertisement Advertise With Us Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions  LOAD MORE