The swim came after the coldest night of the year Brave swimmers faced icy conditions on Wednesday morning as they stared down snow, ice and hail after the coldest night of the year so far for a dawn sea swim on International Women's Day. Hundreds of women joined events including one in Edinburgh, and one in the North East of England - two of the coldest places in the UK today. International Women's Day is held every year to enhance equality and highlight issues that still need addressing. Tuesday night was the coldest night of the year so far, the Met Office has said. Temperatures at Kinbrace in the Highlands dropped to this year’s record low of minus 15.2C overnight – and snow is on the way for much of the UK through the rest of the week. Night-time sub-zero climes are predicted in all four UK nations until at least Friday. Following a “very chilly” start to Wednesday, the Met Office has issued several yellow weather warnings for snow and ice which may lead to injuries from slips and falls and cause travel disruption. Flights from several airports have been hit by delays, including at Bristol Airport which has temporarily closed for “snow clearing operations” Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  A group of women swimmers brave the freezing conditions as they gather to celebrate International Women's Day at King Edward's Bay, near Tynemouth on the North East coast of England. Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day.  Hundreds of women come together for a sunrise swim at Portobello Beach, Edinburgh for International Women's Day. 