
    Fast speeds, competitive pricing and simple service terms are helping Frontier Fiber improve customer customer satisfaction. Here's all you need to know.
   
      Article updated on July 10, 2024 at 7:00 AM PDT
       Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links. 
          We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
          Frontier's fiber plans are as good a value as you'll find from nearly any provider. The newest and lowest-priced plan, Fiber 200, has a lower starting price point than many fiber ISPs, AT&T and Verizon included, while still delivering a decent amount of speed. The Fiber 500 plan, starting at $45 per month, is my personal pick for one of the best internet deals on the market. In all, Frontier Fiber offers five plans with speeds ranging from 200 megabits per second to 5,000Mbps, or 5 gigabits per second. You'll notice a significant speed jump from one Fiber plan to the next, which can make it easier to find the right plan for your needs. In most markets, pricing on all Frontier Fiber plans is month to month, so there are no set price increases. Some areas, such as Charleston, West Virginia and Tampa, Florida may have lower introductory pricing on select plans good for 12 months, after which the price increases to the standard (but still comparatively low) price.  Locating local internet providers Regardless of the Frontier Fiber you choose, service comes with free equipment rental and unlimited data at no extra cost.  Wi-Fi router rental is free, but Whole-home Wi-Fi, which includes up to two mesh Wi-Fi devices, is available for an additional $10 per month.  Locating local internet providers I'd recommend starting with the free rental, then upgrading to whole-home Wi-Fi if you notice any areas with a slow or spotty connection. Upgrading to mesh Wi-Fi is an option if you want it later, and the $10 monthly fee is lower than many providers charge for simply renting a router. There is typically no contract, though Frontier internet is not totally contract-free. Accepting a signup bonus, like a free gift card, will come with a term agreement. If you don't want that, simply decline any special offers when you sign up. Frontier's fiber (purple) and DSL (pink) network coverage, per the most recent FCC data. Frontier Communications is one of the nation's largest internet providers, available in 25 states from Connecticut to California. Fiber service is currently available in 15 states, with serviceability largely reserved to metro areas, but ongoing expansion could bring Frontier Fiber to more states and locations in the future.  Until recently, Frontier Fiber was reserved for parts of California, Florida, Indiana and Texas. Thanks to recent fiber-optic expansions, the service is now available in areas of 15 states and growing.  Though availability is still somewhat limited, Frontier has acknowledged the need for more significant fiber expansion and plans to extend service to more areas in the near future. "Frontier is targeting substantial fiber upgrades over the next several years to locations in and near Frontier's footprint," a spokesperson said. With Frontier Internet -- that's the DSL service -- customers have one plan option starting at $65 monthly for the fastest speeds available.  That's typical for a DSL provider, but Frontier doesn't advertise speeds for its DSL service at all, so there's no telling what speeds you'll get until you sign up. I can set your expectations a bit. Recent FCC data shows that virtually no service areas are eligible for broadband speeds of 100Mbps down and 20Mbps up. If your address is only serviceable for DSL, you may want to also explore other rural internet alternatives such as Starlink or 5G home internet. I'm not saying Frontier's DSL service in particular is bad. I wouldn't recommend DSL internet from any provider. As a DSL provider, Frontier may be a viable home internet option in rural areas depending on the speeds you can get. As a fiber internet provider, Frontier's pricing and service terms are as good as any and better than most. In all likelihood, you won't have the option of other DSL or fiber providers in Frontier service areas. Competing internet providers of the same technology typically avoid offering internet to the same address. You will find cable internet providers such as Spectrum or Xfinity available in many of the same areas as Frontier.  Cable internet providers that you'll find in Frontier service areas include Mediacom, Optimum, Spectrum and Xfinity, among others. Compared with cable internet, Frontier Internet (DSL) is going to be slower and more expensive, especially considering the cost per Mbps.  Most cable internet providers offer gigabit download speeds whereas Frontier Internet will come nowhere close to that. While cable internet plans can reach $100 a month or higher, the speeds you get for the price are likely to be a much better value. Cable internet versus Frontier Fiber is a coin toss, depending on which cable provider is in your area. For example, Frontier Fiber has pricing similar to Xfinity's cable internet plans on comparable speed tiers -- both providers offer gigabit service starting at or around $70 per month, for instance -- but you'll get faster upload speeds and unlimited data with Frontier Fiber. Ultimately, if Frontier Fiber is available in your area, I'd recommend it over cable internet service, especially if you're considering the higher 500Mbps or gigabit speed tiers. The pricing is likely to be on par with or lower than similar tiers from a cable provider, and the straightforward pricing and unlimited data give Frontier Fiber an advantage over most providers in general.  Customer satisfaction scores are never pretty for cable and internet providers, but Frontier's were downright ugly for a while.  Once the American Customer Satisfaction Index began separating fiber from non-fiber providers last year, the source of Frontier's sour scores was apparent. Frontier Fiber received a 74 out of 100 in 2023 while Frontier Internet, the DSL service, came in at 61. In the most recent ACSI report, Frontier Fiber continued to improve, earning a 76 out of 100, tying the industry average and scores from competing fiber ISPs Quantum Fiber and Google Fiber. There's room for further improvement, but at least the ISP seems to be moving in the right direction. Despite progress on the fiber side of Frontier, DSL customer satisfaction levels fell from 61 in 2023 to a 59 in 2024. Only Kinetic by Windstream had a lower score (56). Given the technology type, the low score is understandable. Again, I wouldn't typically recommend DSL internet from any provider due to the slow, spotty speeds.  If you can overlook the low customer satisfaction record and slow DSL speeds, Frontier is worth considering, especially if fiber service is available. Frontier Fiber internet offers speeds and pricing comparable to or lower than many other top providers, and fiber's fast upload speeds and reliability give it an edge over cable internet service.  Depending on the available speeds, Frontier's DSL-based service could be the best internet option in rural areas where satellite is the only other way to connect. Reports of slow service may make you want to give satellite internet another look.  
      What's the best Frontier internet deal?
     Starting at $45 per month, Frontier's entry-level Fiber plan offers speeds up to 500Mbps -- plenty of speed for streaming, gaming and browsing the web on multiple devices at once -- and comes with unlimited data and no additional equipment costs. The fastest Frontier Fiber plan, Frontier 5 Gig, is arguably the best deal if you don't mind paying $130 for internet each month. At around $0.03, the plan has the lowest cost per Mbps of any Frontier Fiber plan. 
      Is Frontier internet good for gaming?
     A fiber connection like the one you get with Frontier Fiber is excellent for gaming. Not only are speeds fast enough to support intense gaming on multiple devices, but the low latency also makes for a smooth connection with less lagging.  
      How do I reset my Frontier router?
     Keep in mind that fully resetting your router will likely return it to factory settings and potentially delete any custom settings. If you just want to reboot your Frontier router to remedy slowed speeds or a spotty connection, you can do so by unplugging the device and plugging it back in after 10 seconds. This will avoid a factory reset and help to save your custom settings. If you're certain you want to fully reset your Frontier router, locate the reset button on the back of the device and use a small instrument such as a paperclip to press and hold the button for 10 seconds.