
												  																			Computer Science
																		Bachelor of Science Degree
 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 In RIT’s computer science degree, you’ll specialize in areas such as artificial intelligence, computer graphics, computer theory, networking, security, robotics, parallel computation, data mining, computer architecture, or systems software. 
                    93%
 
                      Outcomes Rate of RIT Graduates from this degree
                      
 
$96.4K
                   
                      Average First-Year Salary of RIT Graduates from this degree
                     Computer science covers a wide spectrum of areas within the field of computing, ranging from theoretical to practical. As a computer scientist, you can specialize in areas such as intelligent systems (i.e., artificial intelligence), computer graphics, computer theory, data management, distributed and parallel computing, systems software, or computer security. While programming is necessary, computer scientists must also be adaptable and adept at problem-solving and analytical reasoning, able to understand design principles, mathematical theory, and fluent technical applications of computer science. RIT prepares you to be well versed in all these aspects including programming because most employers look for students who are good computer scientists, but also understand the tools and techniques of mathematics, science, and industry, and are able to communicate effectively. You will take a core of computer science courses that provide a solid foundation for advanced work. Building on this base, explore a variety of specializations in your third, fourth, and fifth years. In addition, you will develop a broad appreciation for computer applications and the effect of computers on society via program electives, general education courses, and various free electives, which can be used to complete a minor. The computer science bachelor’s degree provides you with both a broad and deep foundation in theory and modern software and hardware concepts as well as introduces you to numerous programming languages and paradigms. RIT offers you the opportunity to engage in significant programming and software development work, or in both traditional and applied research. In addition to required computer science BS courses, you may take computer science electives in areas such as architecture and operating systems; computer graphics and visualization; data management; distributed systems; artificial intelligence; languages and tools; security; and theory. Students who graduate from our computer science degree are able to: Employers not only look for students who have strong technical skills, but who also understand mathematics, science, and the importance of effective communication. The computer science degree provides students with a solid foundation in mathematics, science, liberal arts and an opportunity to take outside electives, complementing the program's strong technical core. Today’s careers require advanced degrees grounded in real-world experience. RIT’s Combined Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Degrees enable you to earn both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in as little as five years of study, all while gaining the valuable hands-on experience that comes from co-ops, internships, research, study abroad, and more. +1 MBA: Students who enroll in a qualifying undergraduate degree have the opportunity to add an MBA to their bachelor’s degree after their first year of study, depending on their program. Learn how the +1 MBA can accelerate your learning and position you for success. 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply  

 

 

 

 

 

 What’s different about an RIT education? It’s the career experience you gain by completing cooperative education and internships with top companies in every single industry. You’ll earn more than a degree. You’ll gain real-world career experience that sets you apart. It’s exposure–early and often–to a variety of professional work environments, career paths, and industries.  Co-ops and internships take your knowledge and turn it into know-how. Your computing co-ops will provide hands-on experience that enables you to apply your computing knowledge in professional settings while you make valuable connections between classwork and real-world applications. Students in the computer science degree are required to complete three blocks of cooperative education experience. Machine Learning Meets Law Enforcement in RIT Research Project 
											Angela and Anita Srbinovski (computer science and math minor)									 
							
																								RIT twins Angela and Anita Srbinovski join a $1M study using statistical machine learning to analyze police body-camera footage to help improve officer training.
																					 Year Unknown 
											Julian Heuser ’25									 
							
																								It is the very far future. Humanity has conquered the Earth, the stars, and more. There is nothing left. And then, you wake up.
																					 Student researchers pave the way for human-centered AI advances in the College of Liberal Arts Computational Linguistics and Speech Processing Lab. 
 
							
																								Student summer researchers work to build a mobile app for interactive machine learning and  visualization tool to verify data in support of human-centered models 
																					 Facebook Co-op Gives RIT Student Insight into Access Technologies 
											Konce Quispe									 
							
																								Konce Quispe worked as a software engineer intern at Facebook, where she worked to increase accessibility on websites.
																					 Current Students: See Curriculum Requirements Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students must complete one of the following lab science sequences: (a) University Physics I, II (PHYS-211, 212); (b) General & Analytical Chemistry I, II and Labs (CHMG-141, 142, 145, 146); or (c) General Biology I, II, and Labs (BIOL-101, 102, 103, 104).  ‡ Two computer science elective courses must come from the same CS cluster.   The curriculum below outlines the typical course sequence(s) for combined accelerated degrees available with this bachelor's degree. Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students must complete one of the following lab science sequences: (a) University Physics I, II (PHYS-211, 212); (b) General & Analytical Chemistry I, II and Labs (CHMG-141, 142, 145, 146); or (c) General Biology I, II, and Labs (BIOL-101, 102, 103, 104). Students are open to choose from approved science electives that either extend or complement their lab science selection. ‡ Two computer science elective courses must come from the same CS cluster. § The BS degree requires 126 semester hours; the MS degree requires 30 semester hours; students use 9 semester hours of computer science graduate electives toward both degrees. Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students must complete one of the following lab science sequences: (a) University Physics I, II (PHYS-211, 212); (b) General & Analytical Chemistry I, II and Labs (CHMG-141, 142, 145, 146); or (c) General Biology I, II, and Labs (BIOL-101, 102, 103, 104). Students are open to choose from approved science electives that either extend or complement their lab science selection. Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students must complete one of the following lab science sequences: University Physics I (PHYS-211) and University Physics II (PHYS-212); General & Analytical Chemistry I (CHMG-141), General & Analytical Chemistry I Lab (CHMG-145), General & Analytical Chemistry II (CHMG-142), and General & Analytical Chemistry II Lab (CHMG-146); or General Biology I (BIOL-101), General Biology I Lab (BIOL-103), General Biology II (BIOL-102), and General Biology II Lab (BIOL-104).  
						This program is
						STEM designated
						when studying on campus and full time. A strong performance in a college preparatory program is expected. This includes: Transfer course recommendations without associate degree
Courses in computer science, calculus, liberal arts; calculus-based physics, chemistry, or biology Appropriate associate degree programs for transfer
AS degree in computer science, engineering science, or liberal arts 
Learn How to Apply
 
100% of all incoming first-year and transfer students receive aid.
 RIT’s personalized and comprehensive financial aid program includes scholarships, grants, loans, and campus employment programs. When all these are put to work, your actual cost may be much lower than the published estimated cost of attendance.
Learn more about financial aid and scholarships
 The BS degree in Computer Science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org, under the General Criteria and the Computer Science Program Criteria. 
              Maria Jose
              Cepeda Garcia
             
              Philip
              White
             
              M. Mustafa
              Rafique
             
				                	August 30				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
				                	September 11				             
FirstByte Donut Days

 
				                	October 19				             
Brick City Weekend- Golisano College: ESL Cyber Range Demos

 
			July 12, 2024
		 
						Exploding Kittens game created by RIT alumnus debuts on Netflix
					 Exploding Kittens, the animated series based on the game, premiered on Netflix July 12. The nine-episode first season brings characters from the game to life and introduces new ones. It also coincides with updates to the Netflix Exploding Kittens mobile game and new show-adapted merchandise. 
			June 12, 2024
		 
						Students blend art, technology in Interactive Music Video Experiences class 
					 Interdisciplinary teams of students applied their ingenuity and technological sensibilities in collaboration with local professional musicians to create interactive experiences. 
			June 6, 2024
		 
						Event in Genoa, Italy marks milestone for RIT experiential learning programs
					 RIT marked the 20th anniversary of its experiential learning programs in Genoa, Italy, with an event at the historic Palazzo Doria-Tursi, which houses Genoa’s city hall. The celebration, organized in collaboration with Door to Italy, an esteemed language school in Genoa that partners with RIT on the programs, highlighted the success of RIT’s study abroad and work abroad initiatives, which have enriched students’ academic and professional experiences over the past two decades. Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			