Award-winning experience design company, Imagination, has appointed Helen Bellringer as associate creative director. Joining at a time of exceptional global growth for the business, Helen will champion the agency’s outstanding creative work and develop world-class ideas that build new business relationships and inspire the next generation of talent. Helen’s role is effective immediately and she reports to Steve Lidbury, executive creative director UK and Europe. In her new role, Helen will be responsible for championing the digital creative output at Imagination UK, developing new business relationships and creating work that continues to challenge the status quo across Imagination’s core offers, consulting, destinations, content and live. Helen will ensure creative vision is implemented into all of Imagination’s work and ensure the output continues to be of the highest standard. Helen will drive new business and support Imagination’s existing client relationships, innovating in the spaces of immersive experiences, video and interactive content, virtual production, gaming, and web and social media solutions. Working closely with the technology studio, strategy and client services teams, she will lead the creative vision and artistic direction of projects and pitches across the UK and Europe. Joining from Solarflare Studio, Helen has previously managed a team of creatives to deliver award-winning work for global brands including Lego, Lamborghini and Wimbledon Tennis. She has over 10 years of experience in experiential creativity and launched the first immersive storytelling piece on the MelodyVR platform with Lewis Capaldi in 2019. The appointment follows a series of recent senior hires in the UK, US and EMEA. Steve Lidbury, executive creative director UK and Europe at Imagination, said “We’re excited to welcome Helen to our growing team who will play a vital role in our growth journey. Helen’s wealth of experience working with cutting-edge technology will help us continue pushing the boundaries to deliver world-class experiences for our clients. We look forward to seeing her excel in her role and fortifying our talented creative team.” Helen Bellringer, associate creative director at Imagination said “I’m thrilled to be joining Imagination at this exciting transformative time. As an agency at the cutting-edge of innovation they are uniquely positioned to offer their clients ground breaking experiences that push the boundaries of what’s possible with new technologies. Joining the senior creative team I look forward to driving the digital vision of the creative department and inspiring the next generation of talent to disrupt the status quo, as the business continues to grow.”