Image-hosting website Imgur has announced sweeping changes that will remove explicit and pornographic content from its platform. The update to the site’s Terms of Service will take effect on May 15, and will see the company remove huge amounts of images through a combination of human and automated moderation. Nudity, pornography, and sexually explicit content will be removed, as will old or inactive uploads that are not tied to an Imgur user account. “We understand that these changes may be disruptive to Imgurians who have used Imgur to store their images and artwork,” Imgur said in an update to users. “These changes are an important step in Imgur’s continued efforts to remain a safe and fun space on the internet.” Imgur is well-known to users of forum sites, especially Reddit, who use it to host images and link to them as part of discussions. These include porn-sharing communities, but links could also be to memes, screenshots, or any other type of image. It is the latest change likely to impact Reddit’s users, coming just days after the site changed its design to make a separate feed for videos, in a move that looks to mimic the success of TikTok and other short-form videos. While Imgur will still permit artistic nudity, it conceded that it was still calibrating its automated detection software and that some previously allowed content may be caught up in the moderation. Imgur urged users to download or save any images they wish to keep if they do not adhere to the new Terms of Service. In 2019, Imgur made the content uploaded by Reddit’s NSFW (not safe for work) communities less easy to find on its site, leaving it accessible at the original URL but hidden for anyone browsing Imgur itself. The site’s latest move, which takes the policy one step further by removing all of the sexually explicit content, puts the platform as a whole in line with the community guidelines that had already banned explicit imagery from public posts. The Evening Standard has contacted representatives for Imgur and Reddit for comment. The change echoes the infamous 2018 porn purge executed by blogging website Tumblr. That change prompted significant backlash from Tumblr’s user base and its number of active users have declined since then. In December of last year, the site softened its stance to allow nudity but not explicit sex. The issue of how much or how little nudity should be permitted has long caused a headache for social-media sites. Meta has faced criticism for years regarding its inconsistent stance on the appearance of nipples on its sites Instagram and Facebook. Campaigners said it represented a double standard between men and women, while suppressing the rights of breast cancer survivors to share their experiences. In January, the company’s board argued for an end to the ban on bare breasts after two posts by a transgender and non-binary couple were censored. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Rick Wilson, a co-founder of the anti-Trump Lincoln Project, said the former president has an "endless pattern" of "utter contempt" toward the armed forces. Souths are set to come down hard on Latrell Mitchell and demand change. Read more here. The “Fahrenheit 9/11” director described what voters may see when Donald Trump and Kamala Harris meet onstage. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The tragic discovery is just one of a number of similar examples in recent times. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. The former president described his proposal to impose tariffs on foreign-made products as a tax that "doesn't affect our country." Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. A club legend says a big call needs to be made on the Eels captain. More here. Brwa Shorsh shoved a man onto the tracks for ‘revenge’ because he gave him a ‘dirty look’ Princess of Wales Kate Middleton joined her husband Prince William and their family for a Nerf battle at the Gone Wild Festival at Holkham Hall in Norfolk last weekend, according to the Daily Mail.Kate, who is recovering from cancer, “grabbed a Nerf gun, ran around and played stuck in the mud with her kids,” Norfolk Nerf Parties boss Georgina Barron wrote in a Facebook post.Kate shared her cancer diagnosis in March, revealing that she had undergone major abdominal surgery in January. Read more a The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. The Aussie tennis player was banished by the chair umpire. Read why here.