

			By Tracie D. Hall | 		
March 1, 2023
 Civic imagination is described as the “capacity to imagine alternatives to current cultural, social, political, or economic conditions,” by Henry Jenkins, Gabriel Peters-Lazaro, and Sangita Shresthova, a few of the concept’s leading thinkers. Having visited, worked or consulted for, and spoken at hundreds of libraries, I don’t believe there is any educational or public service institution that more ably facilitates personal growth and community access than libraries. Case in point: After a tip from Chaundra Johnson, Utah’s dynamic state librarian, I visited the J. Willard Marriott Library ProtoSpace at University of Utah in Salt Lake City, a kind of super knowledge commons boasting every digital scholarship, content production, and 3D fabrication resource you could ask for. The workshop schedule invited experts and novices alike to increase their understanding of these tools to support their learning and creative content goals. The energy in ProtoSpace was kinetic. The 3D printing machines whirred, podcast booths beckoned, and students were deep in the act of ideation and creation. I remember thinking that if I were a prospective student visiting the campus, I would want to attend the university based on the library’s offerings alone. That is what the best libraries do: They place the acts of discovery and changemaking within reach of everyone. The library’s proven ability to stimulate people and ideas into action is what fueled ALA’s new Civic Imagination Stations project, a pilot supported by the Estée Lauder Companies’ Writing Change program, a three-year initiative designed to advance literacy as a pathway to equality, access, and social change. Recognizing that communities with limited access to the arts are the same ones that experience limited broadband access and digital literacy, the Civic Imagination Stations project paired staff from 12 libraries with local artist dyads in August 2022 to implement arts programming that builds information literacy and digital skills. The project has brought together academic and public library teams in rural and urban communities, including The People’s Library in Fox, Arkansas; Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center Library and Herman B Wells Library at Indiana University Bloomington; and Burnsville (W.Va.) Public Library. The cohort participated in workshops and coaching led by Civic Imagination Stations lead artists Willa J. Taylor of Chicago’s Goodman Theatre and Michael Rohd of the ensemble Sojourn Theatre. Cohorts are expected to culminate their work later this year with the implementation of arts-based projects designed to help forge deeper connections between users, libraries, their larger communities, and one another. The end goal is helping library users and program participants see themselves and one another, as Jenkins and collaborators write, as “civic agents capable of making change” and “as an equal participant within a democratic culture, and as empathetic to the plight of others different than one’s self.” In her Guardian article on how US libraries are becoming community problem solvers, Larra Clark, deputy director of ALA’s Public Library Association and Public Policy and Advocacy Office, wrote in 2014: “We must fundamentally change how we view libraries and move from a historical idea of libraries as merely physical repositories to seeing them as an opportunity for proactive community engagement.” Clark summarizes what I believe to be the most timely work for library leaders: equipping libraries and their staffers to facilitate constructive change and social progress and to make the fulfillment of that undertaking the measure of our success. TRACIE D. HALL is executive director of the American Library Association. Reach her at thall@ala.org. RELATED ARTICLES: Pamela Espinosa de los Monteros, Greg Rentsch, and Amanda Comstock write: “Appreciative inquiry invites leaders and organizations to leverage evidence-based practices from change management and positive psychology. Its methods radically shift away from focusing on system dysfunction or weaknesses and instead centers on understanding ‘what gives life’ to organizations, teams, and individuals when they are at their best, including the discovery of common values, existing strengths and shared aspirations. Appreciative inquiry does not ignore or minimize challenges; instead, it asks what there is to appreciate and leverages these findings to develop a collective strategy for change.”
 Pamela Espinosa de los Monteros, Greg Rentsch, and Amanda Comstock write: “Appreciative inquiry invites leaders and organizations to leverage evidence-based practices from change management and positive psychology. Its methods radically shift away from focusing on system dysfunction or weaknesses and instead centers on understanding ‘what gives life’ to organizations, teams, and individuals when they are at their best, including the discovery of common values, existing strengths and shared aspirations. Appreciative inquiry does not ignore or minimize challenges; instead, it asks what there is to appreciate and leverages these findings to develop a collective strategy for change.” ACRL Keeping Up With…, September The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) and Independent Publishers Group (IPG) have announced an agreement that will allow libraries around the country to purchase tens of thousands of ebook and audiobook titles and own them in perpetuity, rather than license them. Dozens of independent publishers are participating in the deal. Libraries will be able to purchase books through the Palace Marketplace, a non-profit ebook and audiobook platform developed by The Palace Project in consultation with libraries.
 The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) and Independent Publishers Group (IPG) have announced an agreement that will allow libraries around the country to purchase tens of thousands of ebook and audiobook titles and own them in perpetuity, rather than license them. Dozens of independent publishers are participating in the deal. Libraries will be able to purchase books through the Palace Marketplace, a non-profit ebook and audiobook platform developed by The Palace Project in consultation with libraries. Digital Public Library of America, Aug. 13 Terra Dankowski writes: “Connie Chung has made an indelible mark on broadcast journalism—and even inspired a younger generation of Connies. Now she reflects on her life with her memoir, Connie (Grand Central Publishing, September), which traces her family’s immigration to the US, the stories she broke, and the legacy she hopes to leave behind. American Libraries talked with Chung after her appearance at the American Library Association’s 2024 Annual Conference and Exhibition in San Diego about her forthcoming book, the state of journalism, and her childhood library.”
 Terra Dankowski writes: “Connie Chung has made an indelible mark on broadcast journalism—and even inspired a younger generation of Connies. Now she reflects on her life with her memoir, Connie (Grand Central Publishing, September), which traces her family’s immigration to the US, the stories she broke, and the legacy she hopes to leave behind. American Libraries talked with Chung after her appearance at the American Library Association’s 2024 Annual Conference and Exhibition in San Diego about her forthcoming book, the state of journalism, and her childhood library.” American Libraries, July/August WZTVKaitlin Miller writes: “A Wilson County [Tennessee] high school is warning teachers to skip classroom libraries and closed the school library over concerns surrounding a new state law. Under the law, any brief mention of sex, nudity, or excess violence can lead to a book ban. The Wilson County Director of Schools says they are temporarily closing the library at Green Hill High School in Mount Juliet to sort through books to make sure they get rid of the those that are required to be banned. What makes this law different than a previous law is the context of the material does not matter.”
 WZTVKaitlin Miller writes: “A Wilson County [Tennessee] high school is warning teachers to skip classroom libraries and closed the school library over concerns surrounding a new state law. Under the law, any brief mention of sex, nudity, or excess violence can lead to a book ban. The Wilson County Director of Schools says they are temporarily closing the library at Green Hill High School in Mount Juliet to sort through books to make sure they get rid of the those that are required to be banned. What makes this law different than a previous law is the context of the material does not matter.” WZTV-TV (Nashville), Aug. 5 Jake Peterson and Jeff Somers write: “From the moment ChatGPT introduced the world to generative AI in late 2022, it was apparent that you can no longer trust that something you’re reading was written by a human. You can ask an AI program like ChatGPT to write something—anything at all—and it will, in mere seconds. So how can you trust that what you’re reading came from the mind of a person, and not the product of an algorithm?” The six-part series also includes stories on identifying chatbots and AI-generated music, speech, video, and pictures.
 Jake Peterson and Jeff Somers write: “From the moment ChatGPT introduced the world to generative AI in late 2022, it was apparent that you can no longer trust that something you’re reading was written by a human. You can ask an AI program like ChatGPT to write something—anything at all—and it will, in mere seconds. So how can you trust that what you’re reading came from the mind of a person, and not the product of an algorithm?” The six-part series also includes stories on identifying chatbots and AI-generated music, speech, video, and pictures. Lifehacker, Aug. 12 Jaime Eastman writes: “As library professionals working with children, we often emphasize play. Last month, I wrote about defining our play space standards. This month, I’m tackling the next step: creating tools and resources to support staff in our play spaces. When you’re familiar with early literacy and child development concepts, play is intuitive. It’s part of what we do. For some staff, though, those connections aren’t as obvious. We wanted to create resources that not only meet staff where they are but also support our unique and changing communities. Here’s what we did.”
 Jaime Eastman writes: “As library professionals working with children, we often emphasize play. Last month, I wrote about defining our play space standards. This month, I’m tackling the next step: creating tools and resources to support staff in our play spaces. When you’re familiar with early literacy and child development concepts, play is intuitive. It’s part of what we do. For some staff, though, those connections aren’t as obvious. We wanted to create resources that not only meet staff where they are but also support our unique and changing communities. Here’s what we did.” ALSC Blog, Aug. 7 Becky Spratford writes: “President Obama’s annual list of his favorite books of the summer just dropped. I understand that sharing his list could be problematic at some libraries due to the partisan nature of American life. To that end, I suggest you do some searching and find other summer lists. No matter how you do it, the middle of August is a great time to start the conversation with your patrons about what books they most enjoyed over the summer. Never underestimate how much people like being asked to share things they enjoyed.”
 Becky Spratford writes: “President Obama’s annual list of his favorite books of the summer just dropped. I understand that sharing his list could be problematic at some libraries due to the partisan nature of American life. To that end, I suggest you do some searching and find other summer lists. No matter how you do it, the middle of August is a great time to start the conversation with your patrons about what books they most enjoyed over the summer. Never underestimate how much people like being asked to share things they enjoyed.” RA For All, Aug. 13   A publication of the American Library Association 225 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60601 1.800.545.2433 © 2009–2024 American Library Association