Cannabis house Cann’s sales for FY23 were more than double the previous year’s, with its dried flower market exploding by 500 per cent. Don't miss out on the headlines from Stockhead. Followed categories will be added to My News. Cannabis house Cann Group (ASX:CAN) rose 8 per cent on Wednesday after revealing that its sales for FY23 were more than double what was achieved the previous year.  Cann expects unaudited operating revenue to be approximately $13.5 million for FY23, growth of 111 per cent or 2.1 times FY22 revenue. This came on the back of strong market demand for its dried flower products, with sales increasing by about 500 per cent on FY22. Cann said it saw these products as the base for continued growth as the company scales up production. The increase in overall sales was mainly driven by the domestic Aussie market, with the strong sales momentum supported by new clients entering into supply agreements, and several existing clients embracing repeat orders. For the latest health news, sign up here for free Stockhead daily newsletters According to Cann, customer acquisition has been strengthened by the company’s ability to supply consistent quality, GMP (good manufacturing practice) product from the flagship facility in Mildura, achieved through the state-of-the-art cultivation and manufacturing processes. FY23 production output at Mildura was 2.2 tonnes. In May, Cann planted the largest crop in its history, representing 8 tonnes annualised yield.  This crop will be harvested later this month. “With production output increasing at an impressive rate, we have the unique ability in Australia to scale to big volumes right now, and capitalise on the rapidly growing demand for quality, locally grown and manufactured product,” said Cann Group CEO, Peter Koetsier. “As we continue to accelerate the scale-up of production over the next 18 months, we expect to gain substantial efficiencies, improved margins and strong operating leverage, and these elements are expected to provide a path to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) profitability.” MORE FROM STOCKHEAD: Health stocks conquering US| ASX duo bounce after FDA wins | Key approval for Lumos test Immuron (ASX:IMC) rose 5 per cent on Wednesday morning after reporting that its FY23 sales had increased by 136 per cent from the previous year. Sales of Travelan (a natural product designed to reduce the risk of diarrhoea and symptoms of gastrointestinal disorders) and Protectyn (a supplement to maintain healthy digestive function, immune defences and support the liver) increased in FY23 to $1.8 million, compared to $765,000 in FY22. Travelan sales have increased as overseas travel rebounds.  According the ABS, Australian resident short term departures in April were 82 per cent of those in April 2019. Immuron previously reported that strong sales of Travelan may result in short term stock outages in some wholesalers and pharmacies in the June quarter – which did occur. While Immuron does have inventory of Travelan Australia ready to release, it is unable to do so until it has received GMP clearance from the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). Visit Stockhead, where ASX small caps are big deals Even though Immuron has transferred and validated the transfer of packaging to another supplier, which has a valid/current GMP certificate from the TGA, the TGA is unable to give Immuron a timeline for GMP clearance. The TGA advises that it is experiencing extremely high volumes of GMP clearance extension applications which is resulting in delays to processing time frames. Immuron says it will continue to press for an early resolution of this issue with the TGA. In the US, Immuron has inventory of Travelan USA on hand, sufficient to meet the needs of its current customers and to expand into new market segments. Immuron has shipped inventory to Amazon with launch anticipated in the next couple of weeks. This content first appeared on stockhead.com.au Get the latest Stockhead news delivered free to your inbox. Click here Originally published as ASX Health Stocks: Cann’s cannabis flower sales grow 500pc; Immuron runs out of Travelan In this special investor guide, health and biotech guru Tim Boreham leads Stockhead’s deep dive into the most cutting edge sector on the ASX. Stockhead's writers - including mining guru Barry FitzGerald - take you inside the copper and gold markets, and zero in on juniors exploring for the next major mine. Our Apps