41
New Articles








 
New Articles The Mississippi Legislature recently enacted SB 2449 (effective July 1, 2023) to address longstanding issues related to how the state taxes remote software and computer services.  What began in 2021 with an effort by the Mississippi Department of Revenue to update and modernize its sales tax regulations (albeit with a significant expansion of the tax base), culminated with comprehensive legislation this year address numerous complexities associated with the delivery and use of computer software in the modern technological era.  The following is a brief summary of some of the key points taxpayers should be aware of as they conform their compliance processes to the new law.  The new law authorizes consumers to “unbundle” payments that represent a combination of taxable and nontaxable items or services. This legislation should be very beneficial to local businesses and should resolve numerous issues that commonly arise in sales and use tax audits, especially in the context of SaaS and other modern remote software and service applications.    Sign Up for e-NewsBulletins   You are responsible for reading, understanding, and agreeing to the National Law Review's (NLR’s) and the National Law Forum LLC's  Terms of Use and Privacy Policy before using the National Law Review website. The National Law Review is a free-to-use, no-log-in database of legal and business articles. The content and links on www.NatLawReview.com are intended for general information purposes only. Any legal analysis, legislative updates, or other content and links should not be construed as legal or professional advice or a substitute for such advice. No attorney-client or confidential relationship is formed by the transmission of information between you and the National Law Review website or any of the law firms, attorneys, or other professionals or organizations who include content on the National Law Review website. If you require legal or professional advice, kindly contact an attorney or other suitable professional advisor.   Some states have laws and ethical rules regarding solicitation and advertisement practices by attorneys and/or other professionals. The National Law Review is not a law firm nor is www.NatLawReview.com  intended to be a referral service for attorneys and/or other professionals. The NLR does not wish, nor does it intend, to solicit the business of anyone or to refer anyone to an attorney or other professional.  NLR does not answer legal questions nor will we refer you to an attorney or other professional if you request such information from us.  Under certain state laws, the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials. The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 2070 Green Bay Rd., Suite 178, Highland Park, IL 60035  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 or toll-free (877) 357-3317.  If you would like to contact us via email please click here. Copyright ©2024 National Law Forum, LLC