Consumers are thinking carefully about the health benefits of the foods they consume. Here’s a look at the role functional foods can, or can’t, play. Food used to be strictly for when we were hungry. Today, however, grocery store shelves are full of edible items claiming to help calm you down, pep you up, improve your mood or digestion, and countless other perks. Case in point: Post recently launched Sweet Dreams cereal, which purports to help you eat your way to a better night’s rest via added compounds such as valerian and chamomile. Cereal designed to induce slumber is a prime example of a functional food, one that claims added benefits above and beyond what you’d normally expect. Functional foods and beverages have become increasingly popular as consumers are drawn to the idea of a diet that multitasks. “People are looking for one-stop shopping,” says Bonnie Taub-Dix, RDN, the creator of BetterThanDieting.com and the author of Read It Before You Eat It: Taking You From Label to Table. “The thinking is, ‘Why buy traditional yogurt when you can buy one that has fiber added?’” It’s now common practice to add probiotics, fiber, botanicals, and other supplements to all sorts of foods and drinks in hopes of making them more appealing to consumers who are trying to gain a healthy edge or solve an existing wellness woe. The COVID-19 pandemic further fueled interest in such products, especially those promising immunity support or stress relief. In part due to “the rising demand for nutritional and fortifying food additives,” the U.S. market for functional foods is expected to grow nearly 9 percent from 2022 to 2030, according to an industry report, with dietary fiber and vitamins among the most popular ingredients. Consumers are taking a more aggressive and preventive approach to health than ever, and food and beverage producers have noticed — that’s one reason why words like adaptogen and nootropic are now in more people’s vocabulary. But just how effective are functional foods at delivering on their health promises? Do they actually offer advantages over a multivitamin or supplement that make them worth the usually higher price tag they carry? Here’s what you need to know. The concept of functional foods has been around for some time, but Japan was the first country to recognize and regulate them as a separate category of food in the early 1990s, according to an article in the BMJ. Although there still is no universal definition, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations refers to them as “a foodstuff that provides a health benefit beyond basic nutrition, demonstrating specific health or medical benefits, including the prevention and treatment of disease.” Under that broad definition, functional foods can be practically anything. The Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) explains that “nutrient-dense foods such as fruits, veggies, nuts, whole grains, legumes, and seafood are often considered functional foods. In addition, food scientists have developed fortified, enriched, or enhanced foods such as calcium-rich orange juice, milk fortified with vitamin D, and grains with added fiber that are also considered functional foods.” Increasingly, however, functional foods are being defined as conventional foods to which manufacturers have added a compound (known as a nutraceutical, per a 2017 article in the British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology) that is intended to provide an added health benefit to the person eating or drinking it, according to IFT. In recent years, a flood of these functional foods and beverages have been added to the market: chocolate with added chamomile and valerian that promises to help you sleep better, juice enhanced with echinacea to bolster immunity, ice cream and granola produced with pre- and probiotics. Common ingredients used in functional foods include: Certainly, adding some functional foods and drinks to your diet could help you get beneficial compounds like vitamin D at levels not easily obtained from regular foods, says Taub-Dix. They may also help bridge any gaps in your diet, particularly when the ingredients in functional foods are not the same as those you could find in a typical multivitamin. “These foods could bring valuable additions to our diets and potentially play a role in disease prevention,” she says. For instance, consuming 2 to 3 grams (g) a day of omega-3 fatty acids from food sources was linked to noticeable reductions in blood pressure, according to a study published in June 2022 in the Journal of the American Heart Association. If you don’t eat much omega-3-containing fish like salmon and mackerel or other foods high in the beneficial fatty acids — and research published in May 2021 in BMJ Open found that 68 percent of American adults do not get the amount of omega-3s recommended by the U.S. Dietary Guidelines — then a functional food with added omega-3s can help you get a dosage level that is shown to have a therapeutic benefit. If your diet lacks fermented foods like yogurt and kimchi, then a cereal or protein bar that is infused with probiotics can introduce these microorganisms into your diet and, in theory, could support improved gut and immune health, according to a study published in Gut in May 2022. Meeting your daily fiber needs — 25 to 28 g a day for women and 31 to 34 g for men, according to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans — is certainly easier if your afternoon energy bar is beefed up with several grams of added fiber. Most medicinal mushrooms, like cordyceps and reishi, are not ones that most people typically eat, so a functional food or drink that supplies them may let you reap the benefits they provide, such as promoting immune health, per research published in Frontiers in Pharmacology in February 2021. While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates many claims you see on food and drink packages, including “low sodium” and “low fat,” that doesn’t stop companies from using terms that have no formal FDA approved definitions, like the word "natural," the term "net carbs" — or "functional food." “These terms are left open to interpretation by the food company or by the consumer,” says Taub-Dix. Certain claims, such as that an added adaptogen can relieve mental and physical stress, are vague and can be somewhat misleading. When it comes to actual research backing up these claims, it’s often lacking. Many functional foods focus on trendy, of-the-moment ingredients that have not been rigorously studied in humans, so there isn’t enough solid data to warrant health claims. The impact that elderberry has on the immune system, for instance, is not fully proven in research papers, and to say with certainty that a medicinal mushroom or ginkgo biloba aid brain function is much too premature. Research on adaptogens is limited — and the conclusions that have been reached are not necessarily significant. Another often-overlooked factor is that in many cases, the amount of a nutraceutical like turmeric added to a food or drink is much less than the amount that has been studied. Studies frequently use high concentrations or forms of an ingredient that you won’t find in foods like protein bars or peanut butter — but that you may be more likely to find in supplement form. In other cases, if you include a variety of functional foods in your diet, you need to take care that you don’t consume too much of a given ingredient. Fibers like inulin or chicory, for example, are now commonly added to everything from bread to protein powders, but eating too much can bring on stomach woes including bloating and gas if you’re not careful about the cumulative amount in your diet, research has found. “It’s also important to learn about what the products provide in accordance with your particular needs,” says Taub-Dix. “If a food is fortified with protein and you’re already consuming plenty of protein, buying a product like that may not be necessary.” A food or drink might look more appealing because it contains an added probiotic, but there is the chance the strain of microorganism in the product is not the one you need in particular. No amount of added ashwagandha or theanine is going to bring certain calm to your life if your major stressors aren’t adequately addressed. It’s not going to be necessary to use margarine with added phytosterols (compounds shown to reduce cholesterol) if your blood work reveals that your cholesterol numbers are in the healthy ranges. And eating anything with added melatonin won’t do you much good if you already get adequate shut-eye or if the tossing and turning you do at night is caused by poor sleep hygiene habits like midnight doom scrolling. In other words, there is no universal need for functional foods, and in many cases your money may be better spent elsewhere. And just because a food is functional doesn’t mean it’s necessarily healthful. A food can have added omega-3s and also be high in sugar, sodium, saturated fat, or calories, points out Taub-Dix. Consider that snooze-inducing cereal: It has 12 g of added sugar per serving. “It might keep you more wired than tired,” she says. By their nature, functional foods tend to be processed, which raises the likelihood of they contain other additives that aren’t so great for you. Ultra-processed foods, which include soda, sugary cereal, packaged baked goods and snacks, and TV dinners, have been associated with obesity, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and some cancers. There’s also a risk that a reliance on functional foods and drinks to fill the gaps in your diet may make you less inclined to eat in a nutritionally balanced way. There’s a belief functional foods may make up for a diet that is too high in junk food overall, but no amount of mushroom coffee is going to counteract a daily fast-food habit. Most health experts, including Taub-Dix, argue that the functional foods we should all be focusing on are whole foods like berries, legumes, and fatty fish. That’s because a diet that includes plenty of these functional foods is one of the best protections against common chronic diseases, such as heart disease, cancer, and diabetes, research has found. While functional foods can also fit into a balanced diet, they are not panaceas and won’t compensate for poor health habits or existing health conditions. functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods functional foods