


Scoop Empire - Stories from the Middle East

  
			Palestinian Rights Front and Center at Chicago Democratic National Convention		
  
			From Ban to Reinstatement: Turkey’s Instagram Saga Unfolded		
  
			Hamas Names Yahya Sinwar as New Leader: A Controversial Choice Amidst Conflict		
  
			Travel Warnings & World Wide Protests Emerge As UK Anti-Immigration Turmoil…		
  
			From Rags-To-Riches Story To Co-Wife Challenges With Anas Bukhash: Esaad Younes…		
  
			‘Al-Molhed’ Divides Opinion: Egyptian Film on Atheism Faces Lawsuit and Boycott Calls		
  
			From Jewelry to Candles: Summer Workshops to Fuel Your Creative Side		
  
			Arab Celebs Meet Their Cartoon Twins: Who’s Who?		
  
			A Look At Trump’s Assets Spanning Across The Middle East: The Where, What & When		
  
			Mashreq NEO: UAE’s Banking Pioneer Expands To Egypt 		
  
			Experience High-End Living at Swiss-Belresidences Rivan in Egypt’s New Capital		
  
			Connecting the Gulf: The Ambitious Railway Set for 2030		
  
			Revolutionizing Sweetness: Egypt’s Bold Chocolate Brands		
  
			Cook Like a Pro: Must-Try Summer Cooking Classes Across The Region		
  
			Spicing Up North America: Our Favorite Arab Food Businesses Thriving In The West		
  
			The UAE’s Ultimate Nature-Themed Dining: From Underwater Wonders to Ice-Cool Retreats		
  
			Al Nassr and Adidas Drop a Game-Changing Jersey for 24/25		
  
			Bella Hadid Prepares To Sue Adidas After Controversial Ad Removal: Here’s the …		
  
			Middle Eastern & North African Nations Impress with Stunning Olympic Uniforms		
  
			Bridal Glamour: The Go-To Arab Makeup Artists You Need		
  
			This Weekend in Sahel: Epic Performances and All-Night Parties Ahead		
  
			Coffee Lovers Unite: Don’t Miss Egypt’s AeroPress Championship This Friday!		
  
			Get Ready to Groove: Sahel’s Ultimate Weekend Party Lineup Is Back		
  
			Get Ready for an Epic Sahel Weekend With 90s Classics, Electrifying DJs, and Major…		
  
			Journey by Cable Car in 2025: Saudi’s Cave of Hira Gets a Modern Twist		
  
			A Week of Flavor: 7 Must-Try Authentic International Restaurants in Dubai		
  
			Grab-and-Go Snacks & Drinks For The Ultimate Sahel Beach Day		
  
			No Sahel This Weekend? No Problem! These Are The Top Cairo Activities To Try Out		
 The month of Ramadan is definitely a time for family and outings with friends, whether it’s hitting up new restaurants for iftar, gathering at your cousins’ for the ultimate spread, or even better, going out for a suhoor before fasting again. But, along with thinking about that delectable meal you’re going to have, there’s a definite worry that enters your mind when traveling after dark: it can feel unsafe, especially with poorly lit streets. Ride-hailing app inDrive has heard these concerns and found a clever, vibrant solution. With over two years of looking at their customer’s concerns regarding safety, inDrive has garnered insights on how they can make things easier and better for their clients. Along with an alarm button that enables you to contact emergency services and 24/7 live ride-sharing that allows you to share your trip with loved ones.  In collaboration with French multinational advertising agency Havas, the project has installed 20 billboards and light boxes on particularly poorly lit streets across areas such as Maadi, Giza, New Cairo and Mokattam. These serve as pick-up and drop-off points during Ramadan season, to promote the safety of both passengers and drivers who travel after nightfall. These lighted billboards are created with several aspects in mind. Drivers can easily spot passengers once they’re near the billboards, and they feel safer in the lit area. Passengers similarly prefer well-lit locations, where the added visibility allows them to see the car’s license plate, the driver, and the interior of the car before they get in. Egyptian celebrities including Menna Elzohairy, Rana Ashraf, Mohamed Farag and Mariam Elharaky have taken videos where the billboards shine brightly in the background. The vibrant project doesn’t stop there, however, inDrive is also conducting a public opinion poll to further determine what influences safety. The survey will be conducted at billboard locations and online and you can fill it out on their website. WE SAID THIS: Don’t Miss…Ramadan In Space: Here’s How Astronaut Sultan Alneyadi Will Fast This Month Rana Attia is the Head of Collaborations & Special Projects at Scoop Empire. She holds a Literature BA in Cinema Studies from the American University in D.C. With an affinity for writing and all things arts-related, she’s a bookaholic with copious books to keep track of.  A night owl as she’s too busy daydreaming of the scripts and novels she’ll one day write. When she’s not reading or watching films, she’s on the hunt for the next best Chinese food place.  
			Inclusive Pilgrimage: Mecca’s Grand Mosque Offers Smart Golf…		
  
			inDrive’s ‘Set Your Price’ Concept Is Simplifying Car Rides…		
  
			Exploring Symmetric vs Asymmetric Security with PKI		
