
Global Banking and Finance Review is an online platform offering news, analysis, and opinion on the latest trends, developments, and innovations in the banking and finance industry worldwide. The platform covers a diverse range of topics, including banking, insurance, investment, wealth management, fintech, and regulatory issues. The website publishes news, press releases, opinion and advertorials on various financial organizations, products and services which are commissioned from various Companies, Organizations, PR agencies, Bloggers etc. These commissioned articles are commercial in nature. This is not to be considered as financial advice and should be considered only for information purposes. It does not reflect the views or opinion of our website and is not to be considered an endorsement or a recommendation. We cannot guarantee the accuracy or applicability of any information provided with respect to your individual or personal circumstances. Please seek Professional advice from a qualified professional before making any financial decisions. We link to various third-party websites, affiliate sales networks, and to our advertising partners websites. When you view or click on certain links available on our articles, our partners may compensate us for displaying the content to you or make a purchase or fill a form. This will not incur any additional charges to you. To make things simpler for you to identity or distinguish advertised or sponsored articles or links, you may consider all articles or links hosted on our site as a commercial article placement. We will not be responsible for any loss you may suffer as a result of any omission or inaccuracy on the website.
. By Henry Balani, Global Head of Industry & Regulatory Affairs at Encompass Corporation In recent months, we have seen a major focus on regulation, with the Autumn Statement, global sanctions developments and, most recently, the Edinburgh Reforms – with an emphasis on reducing red tape to fuel the growth of the UK’s financial sector – making the headlines. Whilst regulation has a crucial role to play in shaping and protecting the industry’s future, with a robust environment imperative, it is more important than ever that financial institutions also focus on utilising the best in technology and innovation to not only ensure compliance with evolving regulatory requirements but also power both business growth and that of the industry as a leading global hub. Effective compliance results in better, more informed business decisions. Central to achieving this is putting sound Know Your Customer (KYC) processes in place. When supported by technology, these are faster, frictionless and improve customer experience, leading to business wins and, ultimately, profit. Digital transformation should, therefore, be at the top of the agenda going forward, supporting ongoing regulatory reforms by strengthening the accuracy and efficiency of compliance, thus helping the proposed agile framework to flourish, and enabling businesses to truly thrive. ‘The world’s next Silicon Valley’ In the Autumn Statement, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Jeremy Hunt, set out an aim to turn the UK into “the world’s next Silicon Valley”, using its enviable technology, innovation and ecosystem to turbocharge the economy. The Chancellor also outlined the importance of protecting the government’s research and development budget, whilst suggesting an increase to £20 billion by 2024-25. He also placed an emphasis on sustaining investment zones across the country to build growth clusters, hinting at further announcements in the Spring Budget. Becoming the next Silicon Valley is an ambitious but not entirely unreasonable goal. It requires an opportunistic-minded ecosystem, willing to take investment risks within a framework that provides transparency and clarity within a ‘rule of law’ environment. Beyond the ecosystem, banks and financial services organisations will need to embrace digital transformation by overhauling legacy infrastructure. This is particularly pertinent given the ever-changing EU regulatory landscape, as banks need to ensure they can adapt and react swiftly to comply with developments, and the UK works to refine its own regulatory framework to make it more agile considering market requirements. This cannot, though, be at the expense of bolstering innovation. Regulations serve a valuable role in providing the framework to effectively function within the financial services sector and, as such, as the UK continues to modify existing regulations, the balance between encouraging innovation and economic growth while ensuring public and investment communities are adequately protected should be considered. KYC digital transformation To succeed, businesses should overhaul their internal infrastructures, trusting in the best-of-breed technology at their disposal. Taking KYC due diligence as a primary example, current manual processes are simply not as effective as they could be. KYC can involve hundreds of analysts who need to access external sources of information to identify ultimate beneficial owners (UBOs), establish corporate hierarchies, screen for politically exposed persons (PEPs) and cross-check sanctions lists. Performed manually, this is often slow, error-prone, and expensive. To achieve real, sustainable growth that aligns with the UK’s ambitions, financial services institutions need to level up by equipping themselves with state-of-the-art cloud technology, powered by automation. Embarking on a KYC transformation journey can provide leaders with the insights needed to facilitate better decisions, reduce the burden of manual tasks, and improve compliance oversight. Looking specifically at risk and reputation, technology not only offers a level of control but also the reassurance that processes are being followed consistently and correctly. This means those involved do not face the same risks of falling foul of the consequences of non-compliance. This form of transformation can also have a significant impact on people. Thanks to quicker, more efficient procedures, customer satisfaction is greatly improved, impacting overall trajectory for the better. Meanwhile, internally, staff are freed up to concentrate on the tasks that most require human intervention and expertise. It must be remembered that KYC processes are developed with regulations in mind to ensure compliance with current requirements. As such, as the UK government reviews regulations, processes will naturally be transformed, potentially to encourage innovation. Technology and regulation go hand in hand As mentioned, throughout the government’s proposed reforms, regulation takes centre stage, with removing red tape for the good of businesses being a main objective. Measures such as reforming the ring-fencing regime for banks and issuing new remit letters for The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have been put in place to boost international competitiveness and reduce background work for UK banks, by removing blanket geographical restrictions, for example. Whilst these bodies also play a key role in upholding the highest regulatory standards across the industry, which is crucial to tackling financial crime, it is important that this does not hinder attempts to better productivity, which is where innovation remains key. As explained, digital transformation across the financial sector is vital if organisations are to not only remain competitive and agile but also grow, especially amidst ongoing regulatory changes. As they look to the future, financial institutions should take full advantage of the benefits of regulatory technology solutions to see tangible outcomes, and the industry, including regulators, must fully support innovation.    Why waste money on news and opinions when you can access them for free? Take advantage of our newsletter subscription and stay informed on the go! Email (required) *  Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Global Banking & Finance Review. (You can unsubscribe anytime)  Dollar softens, yen set for weekly fall as US recession worries fade COFFEE, PLANET & US 2024: Advancing Sustainability in the Coffee Industry Fortnite returns on iPhones in EU, globally on Android Global stocks poised for weekly gains after slew of US data Global Banking & Finance Review® is a leading financial portal and online magazine offering News, Analysis, Opinion, Reviews, Interviews & Videos from the world of Banking, Finance, Business, Trading, Technology, Investing, Brokerage, Foreign Exchange, Tax & Legal, Islamic Finance, Asset & Wealth Management.
Copyright © 2010-2024 GBAF Publications Ltd - All Rights Reserved.