Delivers MSD fourth quarter organic growth and strong Service operating profit margin expansion; announces 2023 outlook supported by solid New Equipment backlog and 4.1% maintenance portfolio growth FARMINGTON, Conn., Feb. 1, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Otis Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:OTIS) reported full year net sales of $13.7 billion with 2.5% organic growth. GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) increased 2.4% to $2.96 and adjusted diluted EPS increased 7.5% to $3.17. "Otis ended the year on a high note, with strong performance in the fourth quarter, including mid single digit organic sales growth in both New Equipment and Service and continued Service operating profit margin expansion," said Chair, CEO & President Judy Marks. "For the third year in a row, we delivered strong annual results. We are successfully navigating through macro challenges that have pressured our business. In 2022 we delivered 7.1% growth in New Equipment Orders, accelerated growth in our industry-leading Service portfolio to 4.1%, and grew adjusted EPS high single digits — while distributing over $1.3B to shareholders, including $850M through share repurchases. Our strong fourth quarter and full year results provide momentum into 2023. We will remain focused on driving top-line growth — including continued robust portfolio growth and executing on  our strong New Equipment backlog — while also expanding operating profit margins, returning cash to shareholders through our capital-allocation strategy, and pursuing additional progress toward our ESG goals." Key Figures   Fourth quarter net sales of $3.4 billion decreased 3.6% versus the prior year, with a 6.1% increase in organic sales which was more than offset by an 8.2% headwind from foreign exchange. Organic sales increased in both segments, up 5.1% in New Equipment and 6.9% in Service. Fourth quarter GAAP operating profit of $491 million decreased $5 million and adjusted operating profit decreased $10 million. Excluding a $49 million impact from foreign exchange, adjusted operating profit at constant currency increased $39 million, driven by Service. GAAP operating profit margin expanded 40 basis points to 14.3% and adjusted operating profit margin was flat versus prior year at 14.7% due to benefits from segment performance and mix offset by corporate cost headwinds. GAAP EPS increased 9.2% to $0.71 and adjusted EPS increased 4.2% to $0.75, driven by operating profit growth at constant currency and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by headwinds from foreign exchange.
		  Full year net sales decreased 4.3%, as a 5.9% headwind from foreign exchange more than offset a 2.5% increase in organic sales. GAAP and adjusted operating profit decreased $75 million and $32 million, respectively, as segment operating profit growth was more than offset by foreign exchange headwinds. GAAP and adjusted operating profit margin expanded 20 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively, as a result of strong Service segment performance and mix tailwinds. GAAP and adjusted EPS increased 2.4% and 7.5%, respectively, driven by operating profit growth at constant currency, a reduction in the effective tax rate and lower noncontrolling interest, partially offset by foreign exchange headwinds. New Equipment   In the fourth quarter, net sales of $1.5 billion decreased 6.5% with a 5.1% increase in organic sales more than offset by an 8.1% headwind from foreign exchange. Organic sales were up 12.0% and 10.7% in EMEA and the Americas, respectively, and down slightly in Asia, with low teens growth in Asia Pacific, offset by 4.3% declines in China. GAAP operating profit decreased $11 million to $66 million and adjusted operating profit decreased $4 million to $72 million as volume, productivity, and lower SG&A expense were more than offset by commodity headwinds and unfavorable mix. GAAP and adjusted operating profit margin contracted 40 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively. Fourth quarter New Equipment orders were up 4% at constant currency from high single digit growth in Asia Pacific and EMEA and mid single digit growth in China, more than offsetting mid single digit declines in the Americas. Full year New Equipment orders were up 7% with high teens growth in the Americas and mid teens growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific, offset by mid single digit declines in China. GAAP New Equipment backlog was up 3%, adjusted backlog at constant currency increased 11% versus the prior year.
		  Full year net sales decreased 8.8% with a 1.7% decrease in organic sales driven by macro headwinds, largely in China, and supply-chain and installation related delays, primarily in the Americas. GAAP operating profit decreased $101 million and adjusted operating profit decreased $61 million as productivity and lower SG&A expense were more than offset by the impact from lower volume, including related under absorption, unfavorable mix and $107 million in commodity headwinds. GAAP and adjusted operating profit margin contracted 100 basis points and 50 basis points, respectively. Service   In the fourth quarter, net sales of $2.0 billion decreased 1.4%, with a 6.9% increase in organic sales more than offset by an 8.3% headwind from foreign exchange. Organic maintenance and repair sales increased 6.5% and organic modernization sales increased 8.8%. GAAP operating profit of $461 million increased $14 million and adjusted operating profit of $472 million increased $51 million at constant currency due to higher volume, and favorable pricing and productivity, partially offset by annual wage inflation. GAAP and adjusted operating profit margin expanded 100 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively. Full year net sales decreased 0.6% with a 6.0% increase in organic sales more than offset by a 6.7% headwind from foreign exchange. GAAP operating profit increased $27 million and adjusted operating profit increased $179 million at constant currency driven by higher volume, favorable pricing and productivity, partially offset by annual wage inflation. GAAP and adjusted operating profit margin both expanded 50 basis points.
		  Cash flow  
		  Fourth quarter cash from operations of $464 million increased $187 million and free cash flow of $430 million increased $194 million versus prior year from higher net income from operations and supplier payment timing.       Full year cash from operations of $1.6 billion decreased $190 million and full year free cash flow of $1.45 billion decreased $149 million driven by lower net income from operations, higher inventory to support backlog conversion, and timing of collections, partially offset by lower capital expenditures.  2023 Outlook* Otis is announcing its full year outlook: *Note: When we provide outlook for organic sales, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, adjusted effective tax rate and free cash flow on a forward-looking basis, a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP expectations and the corresponding GAAP measures generally is not available without unreasonable effort. See "Use and Definitions of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for additional information.
		  About Otis Otis is the world's leading elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. We move 2 billion people a day and maintain approximately 2.2 million customer units worldwide, the industry's largest maintenance portfolio. Headquartered in Connecticut, USA, Otis is 69,000 people strong, including 41,000 field professionals, all committed to meeting the diverse needs of our customers and passengers in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide. For more information, visit www.otis.com and follow us on LinkedIn, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter @OtisElevatorCo. Use and Definitions of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Otis Worldwide Corporation ("Otis") reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial information. The non-GAAP information presented provides investors with additional useful information, but should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for the related GAAP measures. Moreover, other companies may define non-GAAP measures differently, which limits the usefulness of these measures for comparisons with such other companies. We encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures (referenced in this press release) to the corresponding amounts prepared in accordance with GAAP appears in the attached tables. These tables provide additional information as to the items and amounts that have been excluded from the adjusted measures. Adjusted net sales, organic sales, adjusted selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense, adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS"), adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted remaining performance obligation ("RPO"), constant currency and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures.
		  Adjusted net sales represents net sales (a GAAP measure), excluding significant items of a non-recurring and/or nonoperational nature ("other significant items"). Organic sales represents consolidated net sales (a GAAP measure), excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures completed in the preceding twelve months and other significant items. Management believes organic sales is a useful measure in providing period-to-period comparisons of the results of the Company's ongoing operational performance. Adjusted SG&A expense represents SG&A expense (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs and other significant items. Adjusted general corporate expenses and other represents general corporate expenses and other (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs and other significant items. Adjusted operating profit represents income from continuing operations (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs and other significant items.
		  Adjusted net interest expense represents net interest expense (a GAAP measure), adjusted for the impacts of non-recurring acquisition related financing costs and related net interest expense pending the completion of a transaction. The adjusted effective tax rate represents the effective tax rate (a GAAP measure) adjusted for other significant items and the tax impact of restructuring costs and other significant items. Adjusted net income represents net income attributable to Otis Worldwide Corporation (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs and other significant items, including related tax effects. Adjusted EPS represents diluted earnings per share attributable to common shareholders (a GAAP measure), adjusted for the per share impact of restructuring and other significant items, including related tax effects. Adjusted RPO or Adjusted Backlog represents RPO (otherwise referred to herein as backlog from time to time) (a GAAP measure) excluding other significant items. Management believes that adjusted net sales, organic sales, adjusted SG&A, adjusted general corporate expenses and other, adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income, adjusted EPS, the adjusted effective tax rate and adjusted RPO are useful measures in providing period-to-period comparisons of the results of the Company's ongoing operational performance.
		  Additionally, GAAP financial results include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates ("AFX"). We use the non-GAAP measure "at constant currency" or "CFX" to show changes in our financial results without giving effect to period-to-period currency fluctuations. Under U.S. GAAP, income statement results are translated in U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the period presented. Management believes that this non-GAAP measure is useful in providing period-to-period comparisons of the results of the Company's ongoing operational performance. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents cash flow from operations (a GAAP measure) less capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity and an additional basis for assessing Otis' ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of common stock and distribution of earnings to shareholders. When we provide our expectations for adjusted net sales, organic sales, adjusted operating profit, adjusted net interest expense, adjusted net income, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted EPS and free cash flow on a forward-looking basis, a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP expectations and the corresponding GAAP measures (expected diluted EPS from continuing operations, operating profit, the effective tax rate, net sales and expected cash flow from operations) generally is not available without unreasonable effort due to potentially high variability, complexity and low visibility as to the items that would be excluded from the GAAP measure in the relevant future period, such as unusual gains and losses, the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the impact and timing of potential acquisitions and divestitures, and other structural changes or their probable significance. The variability of the excluded items may have a significant, and potentially unpredictable, impact on our future GAAP results. Cautionary Statement This communication contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other information released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management's current expectations or plans for Otis' future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "expectations," "plans," "strategy," "prospects," "estimate," "project," "target," "anticipate," "will," "should," "see," "guidance," "outlook," "medium-term," "near-term," "confident," "goals" and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash, dividends, share repurchases, tax rates, research & development spend, credit ratings, net indebtedness and other measures of financial performance or potential future plans, strategies or transactions, or statements that relate to climate change and our intent to achieve certain environmental, social and governance targets or goals, including operational impacts and costs associated therewith, and other statements that are not historical facts. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, Otis claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation: (1) the effect of economic conditions in the industries and markets in which Otis and its businesses operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices and other inflationary pressures, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction, pandemic health issues (including COVID-19 and variants thereof and the ongoing economic recovery therefrom and their effects on, among other things, global supply, demand and distribution), natural disasters (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise) and the financial condition of Otis' customers and suppliers; (2) the effect of changes in political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which Otis and its businesses operate, including the effects of the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and related sanctions and export controls, on general market conditions, commodity costs, global trade policies, currency exchange rates and stakeholder perception in the near term and beyond; (3) challenges in the development, production, delivery, support, performance and realization of the anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services; (4) future levels of indebtedness, capital spending and research and development spending; (5) future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, credit market conditions and Otis' capital structure; (6) the timing and scope of future repurchases of Otis' common stock ("Common Stock"), which may be suspended at any time due to various factors, including market conditions and the level of other investing activities and uses of cash; (7) fluctuations in prices and delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers, whether as a result of COVID-19, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine or otherwise; (8) cost reduction or containment actions, restructuring costs and related savings and other consequences thereof; (9) new business and investment opportunities; (10) the outcome of legal proceedings, investigations and other contingencies; (11) pension plan assumptions and future contributions; (12) the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes and labor inflation in the markets in which Otis and its businesses operate globally; (13) the effect of changes in tax, environmental, regulatory (including among other things import/export) and other laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which Otis and its businesses operate, including as a result of the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine; (14) the ability of Otis to retain and hire key personnel; (15) the scope, nature, impact or timing of acquisition and divestiture activity, the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses and realization of synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation and incurrence of related costs; (16) the determination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities that the distribution or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions in connection with the separation (the "Separation") from United Technologies Corporation (now known as Raytheon Technologies Corporation ("RTX"); and (17) our obligations and disputes that have or may hereafter arise under the agreements we entered into with RTX and Carrier Corporation in connection with the Separation. The above list of factors is not exhaustive or necessarily in order of importance. For additional information on identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary from those stated in forward-looking statements, see Otis' registration statement on Form 10 and the reports of Otis on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and Otis assumes no obligation to update or revise such statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
		                 
		     
		   
		  Media ContactKaty Padgett+1-860-674-3047kathleen.padgett@otis.com Investor Relations ContactMichael Rednor+1-860-676-6011investor.relations@otis.com    View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/otis-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2022-results-301735938.html SOURCE  Otis Worldwide Corporation Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks