
    										Summary
    									 
    										Charts
    									 
    									News
    								 
    										Results
    									 
    										Returns
    									 
    										Compare
    									 
    										Share Holding
    									 AllNewsAnnouncementRecos BSE LIVE  Change:  Volume:  Open:  Prv. Close:  Today: 52-Wk: Bid: () Offer: () NSE LIVE  Change:  Volume:  Open:  Prv. Close:  Today: 52-Wk: Bid: () Offer: () Allotment of 8,225 equity shares pursuant to exercise of options. Pursuant to Reg 30 of SEBI (LODR) we are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release titled "Shell signs new framework agreement with LTTS." We are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release which is self-explanatory. Intimation for hosting ''investor and analyst day'' event Pursuant to Reg 30 of SEBI (LODR) we are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release titled "L&T Technology Services Limited and PS Technology partner to transform railways with advanced Simulation Mobility Technologies." Transcript of Q1 FY25 Earnings Conference Call Pursuant to Regulation 30 of SEBI(LODR) Regulations 2015, we are hereby sending a copy of the press release which is self - explanatory. Copy of Newspaper Publication of financial results for quarter ended June 30, 2024 published in Financial Express (English) and Loksatta (Marathi) newspapers today L&T Technology Services Ltd., incorporated in the year 2012, is a Mid Cap company (having a market cap of Rs 51326.69 Crore) operating in IT Software sector. Q1 FY 25 Earnings Conference Call Recording Press Release and Investor Release w.r.t. Financial Results for the quarter ended June 30, 2024. Press Release and Investor Release w.r.t. Financial Results for the quarter ended June 30, 2024. Financial Results for Board Meeting held on 18th July, 2024. We wish to inform you that the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held today has approved the financial results. Kindly take the above information on record. Indian IT stocks surged due to TCS's robust June quarter earnings. The Nifty IT index rose 3.7%. Infosys and TCS led gains with Rs 62,613 crore revenue and Rs 12,040 crore net profit. MphasiS had notable intraday gains, while HCL Technologies showed growth. TCS forecasts better FY25 performance. Certificate in terms of regulation 74(5) of SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 As per the SEBI (PIT), Regulations, 2015 and Company''s Internal Code on PIT,  the trading window has been closed from Monday, July 1, 2024 till Saturday, July 20, 2024. L&T Technology Services Ltdhas informed BSE that the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company is scheduled on 18/07/2024 ,inter alia, to consider and approve the Financial results and Earnings Conference Call Just before the expiry of the June series contract, bulls were seen in a segment of the market which has been long ignored by them — IT stocks. Because the upward movement was taking place at the end of expiry, one could not rule out the element of short covering. If one looks a bit deeper in the trend in IT stocks, two things have become clear. That while the news and opinion has been negative, the price action has not been so bad as has been painted. Now let's look at what happened in the IT sector and why there could be a case for contrarian buying. Yes, the sector has some headwinds which not many had thought would appear two years back. But the bigger question is whether this phase of underperformance is about to get over or not. It might be time to shed the bias of negativity around large IT players. Submission of Voting Results along with Scrutinizer''s report for the 12th AGM. Proceedings of 12th Annual General Meeting Press Release dated June 26, 2024 pursuant to SEBI LODR Please find attached press release for disclosure under Reg 30 of SEBI LODR Newspaper Advertisement relating to Notice of transfer of equity shares of the Company to Investor Education & Protection Fund. Allotment of 70,766 equity shares pursuant to exercise of options. Pursuant to Reg 30 of SEBI (LODR) we are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release which is self-explanatory. It is not only that nifty it has been changing color in every second day, In the last two days FMCG stocks have seen a strong price action and a couple of up-grades have also come. There is literally a 360 degree change in the narrative about the sector and its fortune that was being heard . What happens in reality will be known later but this just highlights two things. First a business which has survived for long, there are phases where they are ignored by the street and then make sudden come back, just due to reason that they have size. Second, never write off a good balance sheet. Now the same thing applies to the IT sector, they have been ignored by the street for a good reason, lower growth and business challenges which AI is bringing to table. But the fact is that they also have strong balance sheets and the fact that they cater to demand where the market size is big and is global in nature and have a track record of adapting well to changes. Intimation regarding Newspaper Advertisement Notice for the 12th AGM We attach herewith the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report FY24 We enclose herewith the Integrated Annual Report for FY2023-24 along with the AGM notice Newspaper Advertisement - Disclosure under  Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligation & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 Intimation of Record date for the purpose of determining the Members eligible to receive final dividend for FY 2023-24. Notice of 12th Annual General Meeting, Record Date and Payment of Final Dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. We are sending herewith a copy of the Press Release titled "L&T Technology Services announces establishment of Simulation Centre of Excellence for Airbus." Brokerage companies like Bernstein upheld a Market Perform assessment for HCL Technologies, Nuvama endorsed a buy evaluation for BHEL, Jefferies suggested a buy stance on JB Pharma, and Goldman Sachs issued a buy rating for Hitachi Energy. 1994 to 2024 is a difference of 30 years, but there is one thing which has remained constant, advice to move to defensive stocks when markets are volatile or there is an event risk. Four questions need to be asked; first, what is a defensive stock? Second, is a stock which was considered a defensive in 1994 when the Indian economy was just opening, still a defensive stock in 2024 ? Third, should there be a new definition of defensive stock in 2024 ? Last but not the least, what are the new defensive sectors or stocks? Please find the attached Newspaper publication. Press Release titled L&T Technology Services Named a Top 15 Sourcing Standout by ISG Annual Secretarial Compliance Report Quick Links Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Top Searched Companies Popular Companies Popular Companies Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Top Prime Articles Top Commodities Top Videos Private Companies Latest News Follow us on: