German-based discount grocery store Aldi is opening its tenth Arizona location at the corner of Bell Road and 59th Avenue in Glendale. The grand opening is schedule for April 27 with ribbon cutting taking place at 8 a.m. The grocery store opened its first US location in 1976 in Iowa. Since then, the chain has opened over 2,100 stores, including nine in Arizona. Aldi is known for selling groceries at lower prices, made possible by eliminating added features like pharmacies and banks inside the stores. Some of its exclusive brands cost up to 50% less than comparable products of its competitors. Customers are invited to enter a sweepstakes between April 27 to April 30. One lucky customer will win a $500 Aldi gift card. Dutch Bros, Cane's and more: These developments are coming to Glendale For those new to Aldi, some of the systems may seem unusual. The grocery store doesn't give out bags, so be sure to bring your own. Also, carts require a 25 cent deposit for use. Plug in a quarter to the cart handle to release it from the others. You will get your coin back upon return of the cart. On April 27, a limited quantity of free shopping totes will be given to early risers. The first 100 customers will also receive a golden ticket on opening day that could be worth up to $100. The Glendale Aldi will offers delivery through Instacart and Door Dash. Hours: Monday to Sunday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Details: 16880 N. 59th Ave., Glendale. aldi.us. Closed in March: These 7 metro Phoenix restaurants and bakeries closed in March — one after 12 years Reach the reporter at BAnooshahr@azcentral.com. Follow @banooshahr on Twitter. Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today. This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: Aldi grocery store to open in Glendale New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.