Lana Del Rey is engaged to music manager and musician Evan Winiker, Billboard reported Tuesday. The “Candy Necklace” songstress, who last week released her hotly anticipated ninth studio album, “Did You Know That There’s a Tunnel Under Ocean Blvd,” has kept her romance with Winiker largely under wraps. The pair, who have reportedly been dating for a few months, were seen together only a handful of times. Del Rey and Winiker, who is a managing partner at Range Media, have even remained pretty tight-lipped on their relationship on social media. Page Six has reached out to Del Rey’s reps for comment. The “Ride” singer, 37, sparked engagement rumors after she was seen wearing a huge diamond sparkler at the Billboard Women in Music event on March 1. Winiker looks after talent including Disco Biscuits, MAX and Daya. The 40-year-old comes from a music background himself, having previously been in a band called Steel Train with songwriter and producer Jack Antonoff. Antonoff has worked closely with Del Rey on several of her projects, including her 2019 album, “Norman F–king Rockwell,” her 2021 album, “Chemtrails Over the Country Club,” and her most recent project, released on March 24. Prior to her rumored romance with Winiker, the “Summertime Sadness” hitmaker was romantically linked to musician Jack Donaghue. Del Rey, whose real name is Elizabeth Grant, was rumored to be dating the Salem frontman, 33, for a few months in early 2022, although the exact timeline of their relationship remains unclear. Prior to that, Del Rey was in a relationship with country singer Clayton Johnson after they met on a dating app in 2020. They were rumored to be engaged later that year, but ultimately called it quits and did not address the breakup. Del Rey’s past romantic interests include Scottish singer-songwriter Barrie-James O’Neill, whom she dated from 2011 until 2014. She then dated Italian photographer Francesco Carrozzini from 2014 until 2015 before enjoying a brief romance with rapper G-Eazy in 2017. She also dated cop Sean “Sticks” Larkin and even hit the 2020 Grammys red carpet with him. However, they broke up just months later. Speaking in 2014, Del Rey told Rolling Stone that she has “an affinity for really good, strong, self-assured people.” The following year, the “Born to Die” singer told Harper’s Bazaar that she likes “to come home and have someone there.” “For someone like me – and it’s not a codependent thing – I just like having someone there. I’ve been alone, and that’s fine. But I like to come home and have someone there,” she told the outlet at the time. 

 Advertisement