NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Israel may uproot an ancient Christian mosaic near what is believed to be the site of the prophesied Armageddon. This would allow the Megiddo Mosaic, which dates back to the third century, to be loaned to the evangelical Christian Museum of the Bible in Washington. But the proposed move has sparked controversy, with one critic saying antiques ‘should stay where they are and not be uprooted to a different country’. The mosaic is a piece decorated floor from what is believed to be the world’s earliest Christian prayer hall which was located in a Roman-era village in northern Israel. It was discovered in 2005 when archaeologists carried out salvage excavation in preparation for the expansion of a prison in the city of Tel Megiddo, where Palestinian inmates are kept. This is near the Bronze and Iron Age city of Megiddo where many Christians believe the final battle between God and evil will one day take place, ultimately leading to the Second Coming of Jesus Christ. The Israel Antiquities Authority (IAA) believes the mosaic is from before the Roman Empire officially converted to Christianity and when believers were still persecuted. The floor features Greek inscriptions which include the offering: ‘To God Jesus Christ’. Over the coming weeks, the IAA will consult with academics and archaeologists to decide whether the mosaic should be moved to the Museum of the Bible. IAA director Eli Eskozido has argued this may be the best way to protect the artefact from upcoming construction at the prison. The museum’s chief curatorial officer Jeffrey Kloha said his team would ‘of course welcome the opportunity to educate our thousands of visitors on important pieces of history such as this mosaic’. But several experts are worried about moving the floor-piece from its original spot, including a theology professor at the University of Birmingham Candida Moss. She said: ‘Once you take any artefact outside of its archaeological context, it loses something, it loses a sense of the space and the environment in which it was first excavated.’ A professor of archaeology at Tel Aviv University, Rafi Greenberg, said the idea reeked of traditional colonial practices, referencing the history of dominant powers taking archaeological discoveries from their colonies. He believes antiques ‘should stay where they are and not be uprooted and taken abroad to a different country and basically appropriated by a foreign power’. ‘Even if Israel doesn’t ever recognize itself as being a colony, it is actually behaving like one, which I find odd,’ he added. Besides the controversy around moving the artefact from where it was found, there are also issues over where it would be going. The Museum of the Bible has faced multiple scandals over the years, after some of its pieces were found to be looted or fake. In 2018, it had to repatriate a 3,500-year-old Mesopotamian tablet illegally imported to the US in 2003. The clay tablet was originally discovered in the ruins of the library of an ancient Mesopotamian king in 1853 and is one of the world’s oldest works of literature and one of the oldest religious texts. In the same year, the Museum of the Bible also admitted that several of its Dead Sea Scroll fragments were fake. It has since tried to clean up its act, taking on stricter policies to authenticate items and returning potentially looted pieces to their countries of origin. Mike Lynch's co-defendant dies in hospital hours after Bayesian yacht sinks Ancient pyramid suddenly collapses sparking 'bad omen' warning Volcano erupts after 7.0-magnitude earthquake, triggering 'code-red' for planes Boy, 10, stabbed to death while playing football in Spain Commenting on this in light of the museum possibly taking on the Mosaic, Mr Kloha said: ‘Major museums and distinguished institutions committed to preserving history have had to grapple with cultural heritage issues, particularly in recent years.” ‘To be clear: Museum of the Bible is proud to have proactively launched research and a thorough review of items in its collections. ‘The museum initiated returns where appropriate to countries of origin without obligation to do so and encourages other institutions to do the same.’ Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. For more stories like this, check our news page. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed