Get local news delivered to your inbox! Microsoft is cutting 10,000 workers, almost 5% of its workforce, joining other tech companies that have scaled back their pandemic-era expansions. The company said in a regulatory filing Wednesday that the layoffs were a response to “macroeconomic conditions and changing customer priorities.” The Redmond, Washington-based software giant said it will also be making changes to its hardware portfolio and consolidating its leased office locations. Microsoft is cutting far fewer jobs than it had added during the COVID-19 pandemic as it responded to a boom in demand for its workplace software and cloud computing services with so many people working and studying from home. “A big part of this is just overexuberance in hiring,” said Joshua White, a finance professor at Vanderbilt University. Microsoft’s workforce expanded by about 36% in the two fiscal years following the emergence of the pandemic, growing from 163,000 workers at the end of June 2020, to 221,000 in June 2022. The layoffs represent “less than 5 percent of our total employee base, with some notifications happening today,” CEO Satya Nadella said in an email to employees. “While we are eliminating roles in some areas, we will continue to hire in key strategic areas,” Nadella said. He emphasized the importance of building a “new computer platform” using advances in artificial intelligence. He said customers that were accelerating their spending on digital technology during the pandemic are now trying to “optimize their digital spend to do more with less.” “We’re also seeing organizations in every industry and geography exercise caution as some parts of the world are in a recession and other parts are anticipating one,” Nadella wrote. Other tech companies have also been trimming jobs amid concerns about an economic slowdown. Amazon and business software maker Salesforce earlier this month announced major job cuts as they prune payrolls that rapidly expanded during the pandemic lockdown. Amazon said that it will be cutting about 18,000 positions. It’s the largest set of layoffs in the Seattle company’s history, although just a fraction of its 1.5 million global workforce. Facebook parent Meta is laying off 11,000 people, about 13% of its workforce. And Elon Musk, the new CEO, has slashed Twitter’s workforce. Microsoft, which owns the Xbox game business, faces regulatory uncertainty in the U.S. and Europe delaying its planned $68.7 billion takeover of video game company Activision Blizzard, which had about 9,800 employees as of a year ago. Get local news delivered to your inbox! Nebraska's executive associate athletic director of compliance has accepted a job within Texas A&M's athletic department and will be reuni… New Nebraska defensive backs coach John Butler will be one of the highest-paid coaches on the Huskers' staff. Check out Stu Pospisil's preseason rankings for the 2024 Nebraska high school football season. Nebraska has two elite freshmen quarterbacks. Considering Dylan Raiola and Daniel Kaelin can make all the throws, there’s every reason to beli… Jordan Larson is back at Husker practice, John Cook explains why he's cutting back on two-a-days and the competition at outside hitter. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.