DAZN and the NFL have begun a 10-year strategic partnership that makes DAZN the home of NFL Game Pass International. Fans will be able to stream live games and watch NFL Originals – and a key part of the partnership is to improve the viewing experience, which will include more ‘community’, plus alerts for key in-game moments. NFL views the partnership as a way to reach new international audiences and expand NFL fandom globally.  DAZN and the NFL (National Football League – the professional league behind American football) have begun a 10-year year strategic partnership that makes DAZN the exclusive home of NFL Game Pass International. Shay Segev, Dazn Group CEO, calls the deal a landmark moment for DAZN that will showcase the sport and help it grow. Fans will be able to stream live games and watch NFL Originals – and a key part of the partnership is to improve the viewing experience, which will include more ‘community’, plus alerts for key in-game moments. Existing international customers for the NFL streaming service have been migrating to their new account on DAZN since late June. NFL wants to grow its sport into a truly global proposition and DAZN gives it the greater reach it needs, operating in 250 markets. NFL Game Pass is available to fans either as a standalone package or as an add-on to an existing DAZN subscription, and fans can purchase the service in more ways now, including through an extensive list of telcos that DAZN already works with. With DAZN, NFL Game Pass will be available on over 100 different devices and that includes more connected TV devices to take the streamed sport to the television screen (PlayStation 5 and Smart TVs from Hisense and Sony are examples). The public watch parties will be available for select games from the start of the season, enabling fans to share the experience and chat live, helping to create communities. On select devices a multi-screen feature will allow viewers to enjoy more than one game at a time. Polls, stats and ‘Pulse’, an online alert that takes fans straight to key moments in games, provides a more interactive viewing experience and should therefore drive greater engagement. NFL Game Pass includes pre-season games (from August 3), the regular season (from September 7) and the Super Bowl LVIII, plus NFL RedZone, NFL Network and NFL Originals. There is an NFL archive. Sameer Pabari, Managing Director, Media at NFL International, says: “NFL Game Pass has established itself as the must-have product for NFL fans around the world. Combining the full breadth of NFL content with DAZN’s powerful data-driven technology, global distribution network and marketing capabilities will help us grow NFL Game Pass to reach new international audiences and expand our fandom globally.” Shay Segev, Dazn Group CEO, adds: “Accessibility and innovation is at the heart of DAZN’s proposition, and that’s what we will be delivering for the millions of NFL fans worldwide. It’s going to be a whole new ball game, with more ways to watch, more features to engage with, and more great NFL content than ever before. This is a landmark moment for DAZN as we embark on a 10-year partnership with the NFL, focused on showcasing the sport, the fan experience and growth.”  Editorial enquiries:
John Moulding, Editor-in-Chief Publisher:
Justin Lebbon Advertising, sponsorship & webinars:
Katrina Coyne Mediatel Digital Events Whether you’re social distancing, self-isolating or working from home… You don’t have to miss out on events. We’ve got you covered! Read More