Recent Market News Headlines Free Guide Introduction to Forex News Trading Recent Trading Strategies Headlines Free Guide The Fundamentals of Range Trading Recent Currencies Headlines Recent Commodities Headlines Recent Stocks Headlines Recent Cryptocurrencies Headlines Free Guide How to Use IG Client Sentiment in Your Trading Trading Tools Rates Live forex rates at a glance Earnings Calendar Keep track of companies that are about to announce their earnings Sentiment Discover who is going long and short DNA FX Check what kind of trader you are Economic Calendar Explore key global events on the horizon Live Chart Latest price data across forex and major assets Support & Resistance View S&R levels for forex, commodities and indices 
View All Tools



 Economic Calendar Free Trading Guides Forex for Beginners Traits of Successful Traders Cryptocurrency Trading Notify me about H M L  Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Share: Both central banks are nearing the end of the hiking cycle, responding meeting by meeting to incoming data. While the US appears to have made more progress on core inflation, its overall state of the economy is grinding along rather well relatively speaking, as the services sector continues to advance and the labour market remains near historical lows.In addition, markets have been at odds with the Fed this year, underappreciating how hawkish the rate setting committee has been. Given this trend, there could be marginally more dollar upside in Q3. EUR/USD price action has revealed a reluctance to trade above the zone between 1.1040 and 1.1100, unsuccessfully attempting to move higher and at each attempt. Price action is a fair distance away from those levels but given the long-term horizon associated with a quarterly forecast, it wouldn’t be out of the question to see another test of resistance before turning lower, towards 1.0640. 1.0640 is the June low and within the 3-monthly average true range for this pair which stands at around 400 pips. The bearish setup remains constructive below 1.1200, using a positive reward-risk ratio portrayed via the blue and red boxes. EUR/USD Weekly Chart Source: TradingView, prepared by Richard Snow Interested in the fundamental perspective on the euro for Q3? See out fundamental perspective via the banner below. The June Bank of England (BoE) rate setting meeting ended in a hawkish surprise of 50-basis point hike. The likelihood of the hike had gained momentum the day before when core CPI rose for a second month in a row and headline inflation came in flat – exactly the opposite of what the Bank was looking for. Rates markets now price in a terminal rate for the Bank at over 6% which would place it well above other central bank projections for their own interest rates. Taking a look at the monthly EUR/GBP chart, the downtrend is very much in play after a series of extended upper wicks around 0.8870 signalled the reluctance to trade higher from there. A bearish continuation from here could see the pair head towards 0.8305 – a level of support that has contained prices in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and more recently in 2022 (on a monthly basis). The quarterly bearish setup is invalidated above 0.8835. EUR/GBP Monthly Chart Source: TradingView, prepared by Richard Snow DailyFX provides forex news and technical analysis on the trends that influence the global currency markets. 
DISCLOSURES
 
Leveraged trading in foreign currency or off-exchange products on margin carries significant risk and may not be suitable for all investors. We advise you to carefully consider whether trading is appropriate for you based on your personal circumstances. Forex trading involves risk. Losses can exceed deposits. We recommend that you seek independent advice and ensure you fully understand the risks involved before trading.
Information presented by DailyFX Limited should be construed as market commentary, merely observing economical, political and market conditions. This information is made available for informational purposes only. It is not a solicitation or a recommendation to trade derivatives contracts or securities and should not be construed or interpreted as financial advice. Any examples given are provided for illustrative purposes only and no representation is being made that any person will, or is likely to, achieve profits or losses similar to those examples. DailyFX Limited is not responsible for any trading decisions taken by persons not intended to view this material.
  