Through podcasts, books, research, talks and Twitter conversations, these are the influential voices all small business IT professionals should be listening to right now. 
Maria Geiser is a financial services sales manager at CDW.

 Maria Geiser is a financial services sales manager at CDW. The struggle to find tech talent in financial services is very real. Banks have cited a lack of tech skills in job candidates as one of their top challenges for the post-pandemic era. That’s why the fight to onboard and keep talent is heating up. Workers are no longer satisfied with the status quo; instead, they’re looking for employment options with companies that offer work-life balance and take sustainability initiatives seriously. Consider that 70 percent of workers now prioritize flexible working hours, 68 percent want flexible working locations, and 51 percent want to work for organizations with a focus on sustainability and corporate responsibility. The result is a state of unrest as financial services firms realize that they need to come out swinging if they want to emerge victorious. Still, there is also the sense that many financial services firms, particularly smaller ones, will struggle in this fight regardless of what they do. Click the banner to unlock exclusive networking content when you register as an Insider. Workers hold power, especially in industries such as finance where experience and expertise are critical for corporate success. As a result, even small changes in employee outlook can have significant impacts on organizations. For example, the financial services industry has consistently claimed the highest share of engaged employees. In 2021, 94 percent of workers said they were engaged. A year later, that number has fallen significantly. While the overall number remains high, this lack of engagement combined with workers’ ability to easily find work elsewhere, has created a market where the best staffers are either happy in their current jobs with no plans to move or have their pick of where to head next. Securing skilled tech talent requires a costly, multistep approach. First, financial firms need to spend time and money recruiting top-tier talent. From job advertisements to interviews and onboarding, the process is slow and expensive. Banks also must consider the ongoing cost of full-time employees. According to data from Talent.com, the average salary of a fintech employee was $129,859. Even on the lower end of the spectrum, workers still cost more than $92,000; on the high end, the cost can be close to $200,000. DISCOVER:The biggest tech trends shaping IT decisions in 2023. With help from the right partner, however, banks can bridge the gap between internal teams and necessary expertise without breaking the budget. CDW’s Amplified™ Support Services, for example, can help organizations with: The future of finance is human. While solutions such as artificial intelligence and machine learning offer banking benefits, fraud detection and transaction data analysis, effective implementation depends on skilled and committed staff. Shortages in top talent combined with the cost of recruiting, onboarding and compensating these expert employees, however, can make the fight for financial staff a losing proposition. With Amplified™ Services from CDW, banks can get the skills they need, when they need them. This article is part of BizTech's EquITy blog series. Please join the discussion on Twitter by using the #FinanceTech hashtag.  What can you glean about security from other IT pros? Check out new CDW research and insight from our experts. Digital Workspace 
Three Areas of Focus to Elevate the Customer Experience for All 

 Digital Workspace 
The Automation Management Tools That Can Supercharge Startups

 Visit Some Of Our Other Technology Websites: Tap into practical IT advice from CDW experts. Visit the Research Hub Copyright © 2024 CDW LLC 200 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Vernon Hills, IL 60061Do Not Sell My Personal Information
