SAN CARLOS, Calif., June 23, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Check Point® Software Technologies Ltd. (NASDAQ: CHKP), a leading provider of cybersecurity solutions globally, has partnered with communications technology company, TELUS, to launch the TELUS Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) service in Canada. Backed by Check Point's AI-powered threat prevention and high fidelity posture management technology, TELUS CSPM provides a comprehensive managed solution for Canadian organizations to monitor cloud security posture in real-time and detect, remediate and report on vulnerabilities. "At Check Point, we believe that cybersecurity starts with prevention. We're proud to partner with TELUS, a company leading the way in developing best-in-class security, to provide organizations across Canada with proactive real-time monitoring security solutions leveraging the latest AI-powered threat intelligence so they stay one step ahead of potential threats, prevent attacks and keep their networks and data safe," said Ron Dekker, Canadian Country Manager, Check Point Software Technologies. In 2022, cyberattacks against cloud-based networks rose 48 per cent globally, and as cloud adoption increases, it will become a more lucrative target for cyber criminals who are finding increasingly sophisticated ways to infiltrate company systems. According to the 2023 TELUS Canadian Cloud Security Study, the average Canadian organization's cloud environment is attacked more than 100 times per year, nearly 70 per cent of organizations experience at least one attack per month, plus one out of 10 organizations are being attacked at least once or more each day. As organizations of all sizes transition toward a digital-first workplace post-pandemic, they are turning to cloud applications due to their scalability, cost-effectiveness and convenience and the fully managed TELUS CSPM will empower organizations with the tools and expertise they need to protect their data and systems in this advancing landscape. The CSPM service offers complete visibility into cloud security posture and provides detailed insights into potential vulnerabilities. With its automation of identifying and remediating any issues that arise, organizations can feel safe within the cloud, while also accessing detailed security posture reports to help manage and maintain regulatory compliance standards, including PCI DSS HIPAA, CIS benchmarks, and NIST CSF/800-53. "This partnership is an important step in empowering businesses to thrive in a digital world by helping organizations of all sizes securely manage their cloud security," said Leita Ouellette, General Manager, TELUS Business. "By combining Check Point's advanced technological capabilities with TELUS' expertise in managed security services, organizations can stay ahead by monitoring, detecting and reporting any issues, and have complete visibility into their security posture at all times with a more secure and automated cloud security solution." The TELUS Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) service is available now for Canadian customers. Learn more about the product here. Follow Check Point Software via:Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/checkpointswFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/checkpointsoftwareBlog: https://blog.checkpoint.com YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/CPGlobalLinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/check-point-software-technologies About Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (https://www.checkpoint.com/) is a leading provider of cybersecurity solutions to corporate enterprises and governments globally.  Check Point Infinity's portfolio of solutions protects enterprises and public organisations from 5th generation cyberattacks with an industry leading catch rate of malware, ransomware and other threats. Infinity comprises four core pillars delivering uncompromised security and generation V threat prevention across enterprise environments: Check Point Harmony, for remote users; Check Point CloudGuard, to automatically secure clouds; and Check Point Quantum, to protect network perimeters and datacenters, all controlled by the industry's most comprehensive, intuitive unified security management; Check Point Horizon, a prevention-first security operations suite. Check Point protects over 100,000 organizations of all sizes. About TELUS TELUS (TSX: T, NYSE: TU) is a dynamic, world-leading communications technology company with more than $18 billion in annual revenue and 18 million customer connections spanning wireless, data, IP, voice, television, entertainment, video, and security. Our social purpose is to leverage our global-leading technology and compassion to drive social change and enable remarkable human outcomes. Our longstanding commitment to putting our customers first fuels every aspect of our business, making us a distinct leader in customer service excellence and loyalty. The numerous, sustained accolades TELUS has earned over the years from independent, industry-leading network insight firms showcase the strength and speed of TELUS' global-leading networks, reinforcing our commitment to provide Canadians with access to superior technology that connects us to the people, resources and information that make our lives better. Operating in 31 countries around the world, TELUS International (TSX and NYSE: TIXT) is a leading digital customer experience innovator that designs, builds, and delivers next-generation solutions, including AI and content moderation, for global and disruptive brands across strategic industry verticals, including tech and games, communications and media and eCommerce and fintech. TELUS Health is a global health care leader, which provides employee and family primary and preventive health care and wellness solutions. Our TELUS team, along with our 100,000 health professionals, are leveraging the combination of TELUS' strong digital and data analytics capabilities with our unsurpassed client service to dramatically improve remedial, preventive and mental health outcomes covering 67 million lives, and growing, around the world. As the largest provider of digital solutions and digital insights of its kind, TELUS Agriculture & Consumer Goods enables efficient and sustainable production from seed to store, helping improve the safety and quality of food and other goods in a way that is traceable to end consumers.Driven by our determination and vision to connect all citizens for good, our deeply meaningful and enduring philosophy to give where we live has inspired TELUS and our team to contribute $1.5 billion, including 2 million days of service since 2000. This unprecedented generosity and unparalleled volunteerism have made TELUS the most giving company in the world. Together, let's make the future friendly. For more information about TELUS, please visit telus.com, follow us at @TELUSNews on Twitter and @Darren_Entwistle on Instagram.  