     Cairo: Qatar participated in the 26th session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Communications and Information, which was held in the Egyptian capital, Cairo.
Qatar's delegation to the meeting was led by the Minister of Communications and Information Technology H E Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai.
The meeting discussed the results of the reports and recommendations issued by the meetings of Arab technical committees in the communication, information technology and postal fields.
It also reviewed the activity of bodies with observer status in the work of the council of Arab ministers of communications and information, namely the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Arab Regional Office, the Arab Information and Communication Technologies Organization, the Arab Regulators Network of Telecommunications and Information Technologies, and the China-Arab Technology Transfer Center at the Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport.
The meeting of the council of Arab ministers of communications and information is an important step in the march of joint Arab action in the communications and information sector. 
It seeks to unify efforts and goals in order to achieve digital developments in Arab societies, in addition to discussing many issues related to the digital economy and cybersecurity and reviewing joint Arab cooperation with relevant international organizations, partners and stakeholders in the field of communications and information technology.
The council of Arab ministers of communications and information is one of the specialized ministerial councils operating under the umbrella of the Council of the League of Arab States. It aims to coordinate and unify the efforts of the Council's member states to achieve close cooperation between Arab countries in the establishment and development of communications and information technology facilities and services, and to develop an Arab strategy for the communications sector. 
 
 Cairo: Qatar participated in the 26th session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Communications and Information, which was held in the Egyptian capital, Cairo. Qatar's delegation to the meeting was led by the Minister of Communications and Information Technology H E Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai. The meeting discussed the results of the reports and recommendations issued by the meetings of Arab technical committees in the communication, information technology and postal fields. It also reviewed the activity of bodies with observer status in the work of the council of Arab ministers of communications and information, namely the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Arab Regional Office, the Arab Information and Communication Technologies Organization, the Arab Regulators Network of Telecommunications and Information Technologies, and the China-Arab Technology Transfer Center at the Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport. The meeting of the council of Arab ministers of communications and information is an important step in the march of joint Arab action in the communications and information sector.  It seeks to unify efforts and goals in order to achieve digital developments in Arab societies, in addition to discussing many issues related to the digital economy and cybersecurity and reviewing joint Arab cooperation with relevant international organizations, partners and stakeholders in the field of communications and information technology. The council of Arab ministers of communications and information is one of the specialized ministerial councils operating under the umbrella of the Council of the League of Arab States. It aims to coordinate and unify the efforts of the Council's member states to achieve close cooperation between Arab countries in the establishment and development of communications and information technology facilities and services, and to develop an Arab strategy for the communications sector. 
  
   



  Check all issues & supplements 



