Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article BEIJING — For Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, the consumption rebound has yet to arrive in full. The company operates two of the largest online shopping sites in China, Taobao and Tmall. Despite a rise in competition, Alibaba's results remain an important indicator on the economy. "From January to early February of this year, overall sales of online physical goods remained weak," Alibaba CEO Daniel Zhang said Thursday during a quarterly earnings call, according to a FactSet transcript. "Our China commerce continued to be highly impacted due to Covid cases as well as people traveling home or to other places during the Spring Festival holidays," he said, referring to the Lunar New Year in late January.  But Zhang said that after the holiday and the Covid wave, demand for apparel, sports and outdoors products recovered. China abruptly ended its stringent Covid controls in early December. Following a wave of Covid infections, business activity started to return to normal in the last two months. Rule changes allowed people to easily travel domestically and internationally again. Consumers in China still live in an economy dealing with a real estate slump and a drop in global demand for Chinese exports. Alibaba's Zhang was relatively cautious in his comments about the economic recovery. But he was optimistic that business would pick up later in the year. "What we see across all merchants is a strong desire to get back to business," Zhang said. "They want to have a bumper year in 2023 to make up for everything they lost over the past three years." Alibaba's China commerce revenue in the last three months of 2022 fell by 1% to the equivalent of $24.64 billion, accounting for 69% of total revenue. Overall results for the quarter came in well above expectations. Restaurants in China also saw a muted start to the year, and only started to see a significant recovery in revenue in the week ended Feb. 16, according to analysis from Beijing-based BigOne Lab, an alternative data company whose backers include S&P Global.  The weekly data showed that after a sharp recovery in revenue in 2021 from the initial shock of the pandemic in 2020, revenue growth for 2022 was essentially subdued.  Restaurants in smaller cities generally fared better than those in larger ones over the last few months, BigOne Lab data up to January showed. JPMorgan picks China stocks to buy now. Alibaba's not on the list Portfolio manager explains why he has the 'most conviction' in this China tech stock China's version of Spotify is 'underappreciated,' Morgan Stanley says Goldman Sachs loves this sub-sector in China — and names 3 stocks to buy Nationwide, catering sales fell by 6.3% in 2022, while retail sales overall dropped by 0.2%, according to China's statistics bureau. The bureau is set to release national retail sales for January and February on March 15. The two months' data are typically combined due to variations in the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday, which doesn't follow the Gregorian calendar. China is also expected to announce its 2023 economic targets, including for GDP, on March 5. Other major Chinese consumer-facing companies JD.com, Meituan and Pinduoduo have yet to announce when they will release earnings for the latest quarter. However, video streaming platform iQiyi, sometimes dubbed China's version of Netflix, reported this week a net addition of 13 million subscribers at the end of December versus September — a significant increase after subscriber growth stagnated in the last two years. The company expects subscribers will grow this year. In January, the platform's newly launched shows included police drama "The Knockout," whose popularity iQiyi claimed soared to a record in the company's history. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by