or Remember me or  The U.S. market for medicines grew by 5% in 2022, reaching a total value of $429Bn on a net price basis. This was driven by a range of factors, including an increase in health services utilization, which is now back to pre-pandemic levels, and the entry of new medicines into the market. Balancing these drivers of growth, was a lack of net price increases for branded drugs and patient out-of-pocket costs per retail prescription remaining under $10. This is according to a new report from the IQVIATM Institute for Human Data Science, The Use of Medicines in the U.S. 2023: Usage and Spending Trends and Outlook to 2027.   “This is the tale of a balanced market in the U.S.,” said Murray Aitken, Executive Director of the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science. “Life sciences innovation continues at a fast rate, bringing new drugs to patients and generating new demand, while average patient out-of-pocket costs remain low and the entry of biosimilars and generics as well as payer pressures cause growth in spending to remain at a lower level. Over the next five years we can expect significant growth from oncology, obesity and neuroscience medicines. However, total net spending is projected to remain flat through 2027, reflecting structural market dynamics, complex usage patterns and competition, as well as the effects of new policies and legislation.”   Additional key highlights in the report include:  About the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science  The IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science contributes to the advancement of human health globally through timely research, insightful analysis and scientific expertise applied to granular non-identified patient-level data.   Fulfilling an essential need within healthcare, the Institute delivers objective, relevant insights and research that accelerate understanding and innovation critical to sound decision making and improved human outcomes. With access to IQVIA’s institutional knowledge, advanced analytics, technology and unparalleled data, the Institute works in tandem with a broad set of healthcare stakeholders to drive a research agenda focused on Human Data Science, including government agencies, academic institutions, the life sciences industry, and payers. More information about the IQVIA Institute can be found at www.IQVIAInstitute.org.  About IQVIA  IQVIA (NYSE:IQV) is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research services to the life sciences industry. IQVIA creates intelligent connections across all aspects of healthcare through its analytics, transformative technology, big data resources and extensive domain expertise. IQVIA Connected Intelligence™ delivers powerful insights with speed and agility — enabling customers to accelerate the clinical development and commercialization of innovative medical treatments that improve healthcare outcomes for patients. With approximately 86,000 employees, IQVIA conducts operations in more than 100 countries.   IQVIA is a global leader in protecting individual patient privacy. The company uses a wide variety of privacy-enhancing technologies and safeguards to protect individual privacy while generating and analyzing information on a scale that helps healthcare stakeholders identify disease patterns and correlate with the precise treatment path and therapy needed for better outcomes. IQVIA’s insights and execution capabilities help biotech, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, medical researchers, government agencies, payers and other healthcare stakeholders tap into a deeper understanding of diseases, human behaviors, and scientific advances, in an effort to advance their path toward cures. To learn more, visit www.iqvia.com.   View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230502005241/en/ Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today