
  HERE are the death notices published in the Tivyside Advertiser on May 9.
 
  To place a notice, click here:
 
Myra Louisa Davies (Cardigan)
 
  Myra Louisa, gynt Cwmdingle, Brynhafod, Aberteifi. Priod annwyl y diweddar Mervyn, mam dyner y diweddar Byron a Bethan, mamgu gariadus y diweddar Mark, mam-yng-nghyfraith barchus John Parry a'r diweddar Kate a chwaer addfwyn i Gwilym a'r diweddar Betty, Laura ac Iris, modryb, perthynas a ffrind arbennig. Hunodd Ebrill 14 yn 97 oed yng Nghartref Glyn Nest, Castellnewydd Emlyn.
 
  Myra Louisa, formerly of Cwmdingle, Brynhafod, Cardigan. Beloved wife of the late Mervyn, loving mother of the late Byron and Bethan, fond grandmother to the late Mark, respected mother-in-law to John Parry and the late Kate, dear sister of Gwilym and the late Betty, Laura and Iris, cherished aunt, relative and friend. Passed away on April 14 aged 97 years at Glyn Nest Residential Home, Newcastle Emlyn.
 
  Gwasanaeth angladdol cyhoeddus yn Amlosgfa Parc Gwyn, Arberth dydd Sadwrn, Mai 13 am 1 o'r gloch. Manylion pellach oddi wrth y trefnwr angladdau, Mr Maldwyn Lewis, Rhydlewis (01239 851005).
 
  Public funeral service at Parc Gwyn Crematorium, Narberth on Saturday, May 13 at 1pm. Further details from the funeral director, Mr Maldwyn Lewis, Rhydlewis (01239 851005).
 
William “Gwilyn” James Thomas (Abergwili)
 
  Yn dawel yn nghartref gofal Blaennos, Llanymddyfri, bu farw Gwilym, Coed y Felin, Abergwili ar Ebrill 30ain 2023 yn 83 oed. Priod hoff a ffyddlon y diweddar Gwen. Brawd annwyl Mair, Rose, a'r diweddar Ken.
 
  Gwilym, formerly of Coed y Felin, Abergwili, passed away peacefully in his 83rd year at Blaennos Care Home, Llandovery on April 30. Beloved husband of the late Gwen. Dear brother of Mair, Rose and the late Ken.
 
  Gwasanaeth angladdol preifat yn Amlosgfa Parc Gwyn, Arberth dydd Mercher, Mai 10fed. Blodau teuluol yn unig.
 
  Private funeral service at Parc Gwyn Crematorium, Narberth on Wednesday, May 10. Family flowers only. Further enquiries to Colin Phillips and Daughters Funeral Directors, Cardigan Tel: 01239 621192.
 
Sheila Anne Negus (Eglwyswrw)
 
  Peacefully at South Pembrokeshire Hospital on Thursday, May 4, Sheila Anne Negus, Bryntawel, Eglwyswrw, aged 84 years. Beloved wife of the late John, much loved mother and mother-in-law of Victoria and Mark, proud grandmother of Theo.
 
  Funeral arrangements to follow, but donations, if desired, towards the 'RNLI' c/o Mrs Lowri Evans of Colin Phillips and Daughters Funeral Directors, 4 Morgan Street, Cardigan Tel: 01239 621192.
 
Gwen Morris (St Dogmaels)
 
  Peacefully at Highgrove Care Home, Haverfordwest, with her family at her side, on Tuesday, May 2, Katherine Gwyneira “Gwen” Morris, of Maeshyfryd, St. Dogmaels aged 87 years. Beloved wife of the late Jackie, much loved mother of Mandy, Malcolm and Michael, proud 'Nan' of Barry, Daniel, Fiona, Gavin, Eppie, Ryan and Rhys, a cherished great-grandmother and great-great-grandmother.
 
  Rested at the Netpool Chapel of Rest, Cardigan prior to the funeral on Thursday, May 11 at St. Thomas' Church, St. Dogmaels at 11am. There were family flowers only, but donations, if desired, to the 'RSPCA' c/o Mrs Lowri Evans of Colin Phillips and Daughters Funeral Directors 4 Morgan Street, Cardigan Tel: 01239 621192.
 
Ted Davies (Aberteifi)
 
  Yn dawel yn Ysbyty Llwynhelyg, ddydd Sul, Ebrill 30, Edward John Davies (Ted Ambulance) gynt Doverhaye, Ffordd Aberystwyth, Aberteifi yn 85 mlwydd oed. Priod annwyl y ddiweddar Gwenda, tad a thad-yng-nghyfraith cariadus Mandy a David, Tracy a Jeremy, tadcu tyner, Heledd ac Aled, Tomos a Rachel, Lowri, Ffion a Luca, hen-dadcu hoffus Ianto John a Iolo Daniel, brawd ffyddlon Graham.
 
  Gwasanaeth cyhoeddus ddydd Mercher, Mai 10 yng Nghapel Mair, Aberteifi am 1 o'r gloch. Rhoddir i orffwys ym Mynwent y Dref. Blodau'r teulu yn unig, ond rhoddion, os dymunir i 'Sefydliad Paul Sartori' trwy law Mrs Lowri Evans, Trefnyddion Angladdau Colin Phillips a'i Ferched,4 Stryd Morgan, Aberteifi Ffon: 01239 621192.
 
Roy Allan Penfold (Llandysul)
 
  Passed away peacefully aged 71 years at his home, Llwyn Eryl, Gorrig Road, Pentrellwyn, Llandysul on Monday, April 24. Devoted partner of Mary, proud father of Abi, dear stepfather of Rowan and Jacob, loving grandpa of Kyla and Cally, Elsa, Freja, Leo, Harry and Molly, fond brother of Keith and Phillip.
 
  Public funeral service was held on Thursday, May 11 at Bwlchygroes Chapel, Llandysul (SA44 4SX) at 3pm, followed by refreshments at the Bunch of Grapes, Newcastle Emlyn (SA38 9DU) after the service. Family flowers only. Donations if so desired to AMMF - Cholangiocarcinoma charity received by Cenfil Reeves & Son, Funeral Directors, Garreg Wen, Talgarreg, Llandysul, SA44 4XB Tel: 01545 590254.
 
Joyce Williams (Aberporth)
 
  Peacefully in Glangwili Hospital, Carmarthen on Sunday, April 30, aged 88. Joyce of Hurstlands House, Aberporth, Devoted wife of Norman, loving mother of Paul and Claire. Proud grandmother of Elsie, Cassius and Clementine, fond sister and aunt.
 
  Funeral service to be conducted on Monday, May 15. Donations if desired to "Alzheimer's society" and "Dementia UK" received by Mr Peter Evans, Funeral director, 54 Pendre, Cardigan SA431JR. Tel No: (01239)615266
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.