The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies concentration prepares students to assist in the following:Drug and alcohol counselingPrevention-oriented educational activitiesRehabilitation with recovering clientsManaging community-based programsCounseling in residential facilitiesStudents also can use the associate degree to pursue a four-year degree. The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies concentration prepares students to assist in the following: Students also can use the associate degree to pursue a four-year degree. The Human Services Technology Gerontology concentration prepares students to specialize in direct service delivery work to older adults and their families. The curriculum provides both theoretical and applied models for understanding issues of aging.
 The Human Services Technology Gerontology concentration prepares students to specialize in direct service delivery work to older adults and their families. The curriculum provides both theoretical and applied models for understanding issues of aging. The Human Services Technology curriculum prepares students for entry-level positions in institutions and agencies that provide social, community, and educational services. The Human Services Technology curriculum prepares students for entry-level positions in institutions and agencies that provide social, community, and educational services. The Human Services Technology Mental Health concentration prepares students for job opportunities in the mental health field. The curriculum enables students to understand culturally and emotionally handicapped, developmentally disabled or addicted clients through a variety of models and diagnoses. The Human Services Technology Mental Health concentration prepares students for job opportunities in the mental health field. The curriculum enables students to understand culturally and emotionally handicapped, developmentally disabled or addicted clients through a variety of models and diagnoses. The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies Counseling Certificate is designed for individuals who already hold a bachelor's or master's degree in a human services-related field. The certificate may assist students in meeting the educational requirements for certification and/or licensure from the North Carolina Addictions Specialist Professional Practice Board. The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies Counseling Certificate is designed for individuals who already hold a bachelor's or master's degree in a human services-related field. The certificate may assist students in meeting the educational requirements for certification and/or licensure from the North Carolina Addictions Specialist Professional Practice Board. The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies Intervention Certificate is designed for individuals who already hold a bachelor's or master's degree in a human services-related field. The certificate may assist students in meeting the educational requirements for certification and/or licensure from the North Carolina Addictions Specialist Professional Practice Board. The Human Services Technology Addiction and Recovery Studies Intervention Certificate is designed for individuals who already hold a bachelor's or master's degree in a human services-related field. The certificate may assist students in meeting the educational requirements for certification and/or licensure from the North Carolina Addictions Specialist Professional Practice Board. The Human Services Technology Gerontology concentration prepares students to specialize in direct service delivery work for older adults and their families. The curriculum provides both theoretical and applied models for understanding issues of aging.
This certificate is designed for individuals enrolled in other Human Services programs who would like additional education on gerontology or who are in professions where they will be exposed to older adults. For example, this will provide increased knowledge for individuals in the field of nursing, health care, child care and business.
 The Human Services Technology Gerontology concentration prepares students to specialize in direct service delivery work for older adults and their families. The curriculum provides both theoretical and applied models for understanding issues of aging. This certificate is designed for individuals enrolled in other Human Services programs who would like additional education on gerontology or who are in professions where they will be exposed to older adults. For example, this will provide increased knowledge for individuals in the field of nursing, health care, child care and business. The Human Services Technology Mental Health Intervention Certificate program is designed for individuals whose primary responsibility is not mental health-focused but for whom knowledge of human services and mental health issues and resources would be beneficial.


 The Human Services Technology Mental Health Intervention Certificate program is designed for individuals whose primary responsibility is not mental health-focused but for whom knowledge of human services and mental health issues and resources would be beneficial.