


the public service union

 08000 857857 Email us   Members experiencing financial and emotional difficulties can contact UNISON Welfare, which provides confidential advice and support services for members and their dependants. The School Uniform Grant is now closed as the application limit was reached. 
 The School Uniform Grant is now closed as the application limit was reached.  Read more The Winter Fuel Grant is now closed to new applications.
 The Winter Fuel Grant is now closed to new applications. Read more If you are a member and you are experiencing financial difficulties, whatever the circumstances, There for You can offer you support. 
 If you are a member and you are experiencing financial difficulties, whatever the circumstances, There for You can offer you support.  Read more Our user friendly budget planner is free to use and can help you take control of your finances.
 Our user friendly budget planner is free to use and can help you take control of your finances. Read more Make sure you’re getting everything you’re entitled to with the UNISON Benefits Calculator, and see what help is available from benefits if you’re affected by coronavirus.
 Make sure you’re getting everything you’re entitled to with the UNISON Benefits Calculator, and see what help is available from benefits if you’re affected by coronavirus. Read more Wellbeing breaks can provide welcome relief from stress and respite from difficult circumstances. We can help you towards the costs of a break, depending on your financial situation.
 Wellbeing breaks can provide welcome relief from stress and respite from difficult circumstances. We can help you towards the costs of a break, depending on your financial situation. Read more There for You provides a confidential service for members over the phone or in person if you are experiencing personal difficulties.
 There for You provides a confidential service for members over the phone or in person if you are experiencing personal difficulties. Read more Peace of mind is closer than you might think. Turn to UNISON Debtline, a debt advice service for UNISON members offering free and confidential advice to help you clear your debts and manage your money for the future.
 Peace of mind is closer than you might think. Turn to UNISON Debtline, a debt advice service for UNISON members offering free and confidential advice to help you clear your debts and manage your money for the future. Read more There for You relies on the help and support of volunteers like you to give vital assistance to people in need in the form of debt advice, listening and support, financial assistance, breaks and holidays, and personal advice. 
 There for You relies on the help and support of volunteers like you to give vital assistance to people in need in the form of debt advice, listening and support, financial assistance, breaks and holidays, and personal advice.  Read more There for You Credit Union Service offers UNISON members access to low interest loans and a range of savings products through our UK network of partner credit unions.
 There for You Credit Union Service offers UNISON members access to low interest loans and a range of savings products through our UK network of partner credit unions. Read more 16 August 2024 28 June 2024 6 June 2024 24 May 2024 24 May 2024 24 May 2024 24 May 2024 24 May 2024 24 May 2024 1 March 2024 1 March 2024 26 September 2023 Information and advice guide which contains details of organisations and schemes that can provide support and financial help towards energy bills. 12 September 2023 This colourful booklet outlines the services offered by  There for you (UNISON Welfare). It also includes advice on how to get help from the charity. There is a limit of 50 per Branch 29 August 2023 There for You comprehensive guide for branch welfare officers, with advice, tips and best practice for supporting members. Updated August 2023. 23 August 2021 A colourful, engaging report setting out how much of a positive difference UNISON’s charity for members has made through the COVID pandemic 26 May 2021 Guidance and support for members 18 May 2021 For branch welfare officers. Complete this form each time a member makes contact. The information will help when reporting to the branch on cases you’ve dealt with. 18 May 2021 For branch welfare officers to take notes of interviews with members 28 October 2020 Set of 8 x A4 posters for all branches highlighting how to access There for you (UNISON Welfare) when help is needed and life gets tough. The poster lists the services offered by the UNISON charity. PDF download only, print off one or all of the posters as required. 20 January 2020 Download only poster advertising the free and confidential debt advice available to members via UNISON Debtline. Please print out and advertise around workplaces. 20 January 2020 A members’ guide to managing debt and money worries. Provides information on the various solutions UNISON Debtline can offer and how members can get help.   9 October 2019 Set of 6 x A4 posters for all branches highlighting how to access There for you (UNISON Welfare) when help is needed and life gets tough. The poster lists the services offered by the UNISON charity. This version has box for branch welfare officer contact details. PDF download only, print off one or all of the posters as required. 22 October 2018 Information about help that is available for families on low incomes in need of a break 11 October 2018  Help UNISON attract new members and retain the members we already have with this print-ready A5 advert for use in branch magazines – or on noticeboards – highlighting our union welfare charity, There for You. As seen in activist magazine. Share Print / Translate Can't find the answer you're looking for here? Get help by: UNISONdirect's hours are: Monday to Friday 6am to Midnight and Saturday 9am to 4pm.  Not a member? Join now   UNISON, UNISON Centre, 130 Euston Road, London NW1 2AY. 0800 0 857 857 © Copyright 2024 Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
