
                
                    
                        Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The chain is extending its documentary-style “Behind the Foil” content series to include new ads and social media content geared at recruiting staff. In anticipation of the chain’s second busiest season of the year, Chipotle is ramping up its recruitment efforts by rolling out fresh content as part of its “Behind the Foil” television ads. The hiring push also comes as the chain remains on track to meet its goal of creating 7,000 jobs this year, per release details, an ambition that contrasts a currently tight U.S. job market. The new commercials showcase the testimonials of five Chipotle employees: Cheyenne, Christina, Ehan, Shawn and Skye. In each of the 15-second clips, the employees share a tidbit of information about what it’s like working at Chipotle, like how the chain makes its guacamole, what the phrase “open kitchen” means and how they would describe Chipotle’s chicken to someone who hasn’t yet tasted it. The collection of unfiltered testimonials could help the chain appear more approachable and inviting, especially to a younger generation known to value brands willing to go off-script. "There is no better way to make Chipotle more visible, relevant, and loved than to feature our talented restaurant team members preparing our craveable, real food while sharing their authentic stories,” said Chris Brandt, chief brand officer for Chipotle, in release details. Chipotle for its hiring efforts is also turning to social media in order to reach Gen Z audiences, a strategic move given that the average age of its employees is 24. As part of its plans, the chain will “pull back the foil” with information about what it’s like being employed by the chain including day-to-day life and food tips, a type of content the brand has shared previously. The chain additionally backed its strategy with research finding that 40% of Gen Z prefers search on social media versus a traditional search engine, potentially indicating that they may take to platforms like TikTok in search of a job or information about a company. The new ads join a slew of other moves by the chain geared at the younger generation. For example, the chain for National Burrito Day in April dispersed over 10,000 text-to-win codes on Twitter offering consumers free food, a move that earned it its second largest digital sale day of all time. In May, the chain teamed with Capcom’s Street Fighter 6, a tie-up that also saw it become the first restaurant brand to give free food as a viewer reward on Twitch. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts As marketers emerged from two strenuous years, innovative media strategies and bets on buzzy technology like generative AI stood apart from the pack. A ban could benefit Meta, weakening competition and options for advertisers, while a potential suitor will need to be well-versed in data management. Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts As marketers emerged from two strenuous years, innovative media strategies and bets on buzzy technology like generative AI stood apart from the pack. A ban could benefit Meta, weakening competition and options for advertisers, while a potential suitor will need to be well-versed in data management. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines