Searching for your content... Phone 
 877-269-7890 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 
Contact Cision
 
 877-269-7890

from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 News provided by Jun 28, 2023, 09:00 ET Share this article TORONTO, June 28, 2023 /CNW/ - Scotiabank (TSX: BNS) (NYSE: BNS) announced today the interest rate transition for its currently outstanding 4.650% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-cumulative Subordinated Additional Tier 1 Capital Notes (Non-Viability Contingent Capital (NVCC)) (subordinated indebtedness), with CUSIP 064159KJ4, (the "Notes") from three-month USD LIBOR to Term SOFR (as defined herein) plus a spread adjustment of 26.161 bps for interest periods commencing on or after July 12, 2023. On March 5, 2021, the UK Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) announced that all USD LIBOR settings will either cease to be published or will no longer be representative after June 30, 2023 (the "Cessation Date"). The Notes contain interest rate fallback provisions that, in the event of the cessation of publication of three-month USD LIBOR, require Computershare Trust Company, N.A. ("Computershare"), the calculation agent for the Notes, to use the industry accepted successor base rate to three-month USD LIBOR in calculating the applicable interest rate on the Notes, should Computershare determine that there is such a base rate. Computershare selected CME 3-month Term SOFR, as administered by CME Group Benchmark Administration, Ltd. (or any successor thereto) ("Term SOFR") as the replacement for three-month USD LIBOR and applied a spread adjustment of 26.161 bps, which they have determined is consistent with the replacement benchmark and tenor adjustment contemplated by the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act. As a result, for interest periods commencing on or after July 12, 2023, interest on the Notes will be payable at a rate of Term SOFR + 290.961 bps, as determined by Computershare in accordance with the terms of the Notes, subject to Scotiabank's right to cancel interest payments. Instrument CUSIP ISIN Current spreadto three-monthUSD LIBOR SpreadAdjustment Futurespread toTerm SOFR  EffectiveDate 4.650% Fixed-to-FloatingRate Non-CumulativeSubordinated Additional Tier 1 Notes 064159KJ4 US064159KJ44 264.8 bps 26.161 bps 290.961 bps July 12,2023 Computershare's selection of Term SOFR as the replacement for three-month USD LIBOR and the applicable spread adjustment has been separately communicated by Computershare via the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation. Scotiabank is a leading bank in the Americas. Guided by our purpose: "for every future", we help our customers, their families and their communities achieve success through a broad range of advice, products, and services, including personal and commercial banking, wealth management and private banking, corporate and investment banking, and capital markets. With a team of approximately 90,000 employees and assets of over $1.3 trillion (as at April 30, 2023), Scotiabank trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: BNS) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BNS). For more information, please visit http://www.scotiabank.com and follow us on Twitter @ScotiabankViews.  Forward-looking Statements From time to time, our public communications include oral or written forward-looking statements. Statements of this type are included in this document and may be included in other filings with Canadian securities regulators or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), or in other communications. In addition, representatives of the Bank may include forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media, and others. All such statements are made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and any applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements made in this document, the Management's Discussion and Analysis in the Bank's 2022 Annual Report under the headings "Outlook" and in other statements regarding the Bank's objectives, strategies to achieve those objectives, the regulatory environment in which the Bank operates, anticipated financial results, and the outlook for the Bank's businesses and for the Canadian, U.S. and global economies. Such statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "foresee," "forecast," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "plan," "goal," "target," "project," "commit," "objective," and similar expressions of future or conditional verbs, such as "will," "may," "should," "would," "might," "can" and "could" and positive and negative variations thereof. By their very nature, forward-looking statements require us to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, which give rise to the possibility that our predictions, forecasts, projections, expectations, or conclusions will not prove to be accurate, that our assumptions may not be correct and that our financial performance objectives, vision and strategic goals will not be achieved. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements as a number of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control and effects of which can be difficult to predict, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations, targets, estimates or intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. The future outcomes that relate to forward-looking statements may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to: general economic and market conditions in the countries in which we operate; changes in currency and interest rates; increased funding costs and market volatility due to market illiquidity and competition for funding; the failure of third parties to comply with their obligations to the Bank and its affiliates; changes in monetary, fiscal, or economic policy and tax legislation and interpretation; changes in laws and regulations or in supervisory expectations or requirements, including capital, interest rate and liquidity requirements and guidance, and the effect of such changes on funding costs; changes to our credit ratings; the possible effects on our business of war or terrorist actions and unforeseen consequences arising from such actions; operational and infrastructure risks; reputational risks; the accuracy and completeness of information the Bank receives on customers and counterparties; the timely development and introduction of new products and services, and the extent to which products or services previously sold by the Bank require the Bank to incur liabilities or absorb losses not contemplated at their origination; our ability to execute our strategic plans, including the successful completion of acquisitions and dispositions, including obtaining regulatory approvals; critical accounting estimates and the effect of changes to accounting standards, rules and interpretations on these estimates; global capital markets activity; the Bank's ability to attract, develop and retain key executives; the evolution of various types of fraud or other criminal behaviour to which the Bank is exposed; disruptions in or attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the Bank's information technology, internet, network access, or other voice or data communications systems or services; increased competition in the geographic and in business areas in which we operate, including through internet and mobile banking and non-traditional competitors; exposure related to significant litigation and regulatory matters; climate change and other environmental and social risks, including sustainability that may arise, including from the Bank's business activities; the occurrence of natural and unnatural catastrophic events and claims resulting from such events; inflationary pressures; Canadian housing and household indebtedness; the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, including the magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the global economy, financial market conditions and the Bank's business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects; and the Bank's anticipation of and success in managing the risks implied by the foregoing. A substantial amount of the Bank's business involves making loans or otherwise committing resources to specific companies, industries, or countries. Unforeseen events affecting such borrowers, industries or countries could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial results, businesses, financial condition, or liquidity. These and other factors may cause the Bank's actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by forward-looking statements. The Bank cautions that the preceding list is not exhaustive of all possible risk factors and other factors could also adversely affect the Bank's results, for more information, please see the "Risk Management" section of the Bank's 2022 Annual Report, as may be updated by quarterly reports. Material economic assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements contained in this document are set out in the 2022 Annual Report under the headings "Outlook", as updated by quarterly reports. The "Outlook" and "2023 Priorities" sections are based on the Bank's views and the actual outcome is uncertain. Readers should consider the above-noted factors when reviewing these sections. When relying on forward-looking statements to make decisions with respect to the Bank and its securities, investors and others should carefully consider the preceding factors, other uncertainties, and potential events. Any forward-looking statements contained in this document represent the views of management only as of the date hereof and are presented for the purpose of assisting the Bank's shareholders and analysts in understanding the Bank's financial position, objectives, and priorities, and anticipated financial performance as at and for the periods ended on the dates presented and may not be appropriate for other purposes. Except as required by law, the Bank does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by or on its behalf. Additional information relating to the Bank, including the Bank's Annual Information Form, can be located on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com and on the EDGAR section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. SOURCE Scotiabank For Investor Relations enquiries only: Investor Relations, (416) 775-0798, [email protected]; For media enquiries only: Hannah Ward, Global Communications, (437) 778-3060, [email protected] About Scotiabank Scotiabank is a leading bank in the Americas. Guided by our purpose: "for every future", we help our customers, their families and their communities achieve success through a broad range of advice, products and services, including personal and commercial... Also from this source 
/R E P E A T -- Scotiabank to Announce Third Quarter 2024 Results/ 
 
Scotiabank supports expansion of Children's Aid Foundation of Canada's Stay in School program 
 
Scotiabank announces agreement to acquire 14.9% equity interest in KeyCorp 
