Accounting platform recognized for exceptional level of support and service to partners and clients. ATLANTA, April 12, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Being recognized for its clear commitment to providing superior technology products and solutions to small- and mid-market businesses, LeaseQuery has joined the Information Technology Alliance (ITA). ITA is the highly-regarded international not-for-profit association of leading Consulting firms and VARs, CPA firms, and technology product/service providers. The ITA invitation was extended because of the exceptional level of support and service LeaseQuery has provided to their business partners and clients, and for LeaseQuery's commitment to being a leader in the information technology (IT) industry. LeaseQuery provides a software platform built by accountants to enable accounting teams to move complex accounting out of spreadsheets and into the secure cloud. The CPA-approved, SaaS platform removes the complexity of transitioning and complying under the domestic, international, and governmental accounting standards - ASC 842, IFRS 16, GASB 87, and GASB 96. Since its inception in 2011, this platform has continued to simplify accountants' lives by arming them with the operational tools, data integrity, accounting intelligence, international consideration, and specific disclosure reports required by regulators and auditors. "The primary focus of ITA is to provide an independent forum for leading IT business owners to exchange information, share best practices, assess the current status and future direction of the profession, and thereby improve their overall business results," said Shawn Slavin, President of ITA. "In becoming an Alliance Partner in ITA, LeaseQuery has shown that they are committed to being part of the long-term success of their business partners and their end-user clients." "Being an ITA Alliance Partner is a great way to meet, and network with, some of the biggest and best firms in the IT business," said Joe Gruca, Chief Revenue Officer of LeaseQuery. "We are always looking for ways to improve our products and to help our business partners get bigger and stronger. Having this ITA membership opportunity will allow both our people, and our clients, to be more successful in the future." As a new ITA member, LeaseQuery will attend the ITA 2023 Spring Collaborative in Vancouver BC Canada April 23-25, 2023. Spring Collaborative attendees are all leaders of the IT profession throughout the United States and Canada, including IT consultants and service providers, software publishers, client accounting service (CAS) professionals, and the internal technology leaders of most large CPA firms. About ITA ITA, http://www.italliance.com, is a not-for-profit professional trade association of leading firms and companies whose purpose is to share information and build relationships that improve the way member firms do business. Because the ITA membership roster consists of many of the most highly regarded mid-market technology professionals and product/service providers, ITA enjoys substantial collective influence and often acts as an authoritative voice for the IT profession. About LeaseQuery LeaseQuery makes accountants' lives easier by simplifying the complex with technology. More than 28,000 financial professionals globally rely on our cloud-based, CPA-approved solutions and in-house accounting expertise to comply with confidence across various FASB, GASB, and IASB accounting standards. Our software helps businesses minimize risk, increase efficiency and reduce costs. Learn more about LeaseQuery's core accounting solution, which focuses on easing the mandatory transition to ASC 842, IFRS 16, GASB 87, and GASB 96 and ensuring organizations stay compliant, or explore additional accounting tools. For more information, visit LeaseQuery.com. Media Contact Amelia Wright, Alloy on behalf of LeaseQuery, (855) 300-8209, [email protected]   SOURCE  Alloy on behalf of LeaseQuery