VANCOUVER, British Columbia, May  30, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Interfield Global Software Inc. IFSS ("Interfield" or the "Company") a software development company that provides tailor-made data management and marketplace solutions for companies worldwide, is pleased to announce the signing of a Premium Membership Agreement with Verditek PLC ("Verditek"), a leading clean technology company behind the development and production of lightweight, flexible solar panels, providing new energy solutions to cover surfaces previously never considered suitable for solar power. Ten times lighter than conventional panels, Verditek is providing a wide range of solar solutions from powering a mobile military campsite to domestic holiday caravans. We are excited that Verditek has chosen Equipment Hound as their E-Commerce provider to add value to their entrance into the UAE and Middle East market. With our chief operations based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates; it is sunny all year round and we're surrounded by seemingly infinite Solar installation opportunities. Verditek's solar panels have proven to be more durable than their competitors. With the extreme heat in the region where summer temperatures can reach close to 50 degrees Celsius most solar panels crack, melt or become too warped to be functional. "Verditek represents our first solar client and takes us another step towards making Equipment Hound the largest procurement ecosystem for industrial equipment and a milestone towards our commitment to energy transition. We look forward to working with the Verditek team to market their game changing solar panels in the UAE and globally," commented Steele Hemmerich, President of Interfield. About Interfield Global Software Inc. The Company is a publicly listed company, with its common shares listed on the NEO Exchange Inc. IFSS and operates in Dubai, U.A.E through its wholly owned subsidiary, Interfield Software Solutions LLC ("Interfield Solutions"). Interfield Solutions is a software company that services numerous industrial segments worldwide including oil and gas, mining and renewables. Interfield Solutions has two operating divisions, E-commerce and Software as a Service. Equipment Hound, the company's flagship product of its E-commerce division, is an industrial equipment marketplace that connects buyers and suppliers around the globe. Equipment Hound manages a catalogue of equipment from various suppliers and provides procurement solutions for buyers. It includes features such as requests for quotes, logistics support and third-party verification. ToolSuite, the company's flagship product of its Software as a Service division, is a cloud based data collection and management platform that digitizes industrial processes and provides real-time auditable data for clients. ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS "Harold Hemmerich" Harold Hemmerich, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorPhone: +971 50 558 8349 Bruce Nurse, Investor RelationsPhone: +1 303 919 2913 Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer and Reader Advisory This news release contains "forward-looking information" and "forward-looking statements" (collectively, "forward-looking statements") within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, and are based on expectations, estimates and projections as at the date of this news release. Any statement that involves discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance often using phrases such as "expects", "anticipates", "plans", "budget", "scheduled", "forecasts", "estimates", "believes" or "intends", or variations of such words and phrases, or stating that certain actions, events or results "may" or "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken to occur or be achieved, are not statements of historical fact and may be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include: general business, economic, competitive, political and social uncertainties; delay or failure to receive any necessary board, shareholder or regulatory approvals, including the approval of any applicable regulatory authority; and that factors may occur which impede or prevent the Company's future business plans. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements and information contained in this news release. Except as required by law, the Company does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements, whether they change as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Neither the Neo Exchange Inc. nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the Neo Exchange Inc.) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this news release.   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.