Digital & Trend reports Overview and forecasts on trending topics Industry & Market reports Industry and market insights and forecasts Companies & Products reports Key figures and rankings about companies and products Consumer & Brand reports Consumer and brand insights and preferences in various industries Politics & Society reports Detailed information about political and social topics Country & Region reports All key figures about countries and regions 
                    Market forecast and expert KPIs for 1000+ markets in 190+ countries & territories
                 
                            Insights on consumer attitudes and behavior worldwide
                         
                    Business information on 100m+ public and private companies
                 Explore Company Insights
                         
                        Detailed information for 39,000+ online stores and marketplaces
                     
                    Directly accessible data for 170 industries from 150+ countries
                    and over 1 Mio. facts.
                 Statista+ offers additional, data-driven services, tailored to your specific needs. As your partner for data-driven success, we combine expertise in research, strategy, and marketing communications to deliver comprehensive solutions. Contact us directly for your individual offer. Full-service market research and analytics Strategy and business building for the data-driven economy Transforming data into content marketing and design Statista R identifies and awards industry leaders, top providers, and exceptional brands through exclusive rankings and top lists in collaboration with renowned media brands worldwide. For more details, visit our website. Industry-specific and extensively researched technical data (partially from exclusive partnerships). A paid subscription is required for full access. In financial year 2024, the foreign direct investment equity inflow in the computer hardware and software sector was about 7.97 billion U.S. dollars. This was a significant decrease compared to the previous years. The computer sector was by far the sector with the highest FDI inflow that year. To access all Premium Statistics, you need a paid Statista Account 
                                    Additional Information
                                 
                                Show sources information
                            
                                Show publisher information
                            
                                Use Ask Statista Research Service
                             May 2024 India FY 2015 to FY 2024 India's financial year begins in April and ends in March. For example, FY 2022 started in April 2021 and ended in March 2022. One Indian rupee is equal to 0.011 euros and 0.012 dollars (as of June 2024). Values have been rounded for clarity. India's financial year begins in April and ends in March. For example, FY 2022 started in April 2021 and ended in March 2022. One Indian rupee is equal to 0.011 euros and 0.012 dollars (as of June 2024). Values have been rounded for clarity. Hardware Market share of PC shipments in India Q1 2017-Q1 2023, by vendor Hardware Laptop ownership in India 2023, by brand Hardware PC vendor shipments worldwide from 2006-2023 Hardware Computer hardware production value in India FY 2014-2022 To download this statistic in XLS format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PNG format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PDF format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PPT format you need a Statista Account As a Premium user you get access to the detailed source references and background information about this statistic. As a Premium user you get access to background information and details about the release of this statistic. As soon as this statistic is updated, you will immediately be notified via e-mail. … to incorporate the statistic into your presentation at any time. You need at least a Starter Account to use this feature. * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                     
                Overview
             
                Major players
             
                Trade
             
                Consumer behavior
             Further related statistics * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                    