UCL Computer Science 
    Deepen your expertise in software engineering by studying in one of the world-leading research groups in the field.  This MSc is ideal for a software engineering career in large IT companies and start-ups or in preparation for a PhD. The programme provides an opportunity to conduct a substantial research or engineering project, many of which are in collaboration with our leading industry partners. Large-scale software systems provide the backbone of many industries and sectors. This advanced software engineering programme enables you to learn from world-renowned lecturers in this field, who are also esteemed leaders in research and industry practice. In this programme, you will learn about identifying software requirements, understanding and designing software architecture, software development, including a range of tools and practices used today, software testing, and professional practice such as project management and ethics. Elective modules enable you to gain specialist skills in subjects ranging from security and networks to data engineering and finance. You will also undertake a substantial project, which could be a group industry project or an individual research project.  Most of our group projects are with industry clients, where you will apply your knowledge to real-world problems. Research projects will give you exposure to the most recent advances in software engineering research and are a brilliant option if you are considering a PhD in the future. YouTube Widget Placeholderhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtXC9xf2jUo Please note that the list of modules given here is indicative. This information is published a long time in advance of enrolment, and module content and availability are subject to change. This programme is for you if: Many sectors rely on large software systems, and you will gain exposure to some of these throughout the programme due to the strong industry ties UCL has. You will acquire a strong skillset in the many aspects of software systems engineering during this programme, enabling you to pursue a career as a software engineer, software developer or software architect when you graduate. The research-based curriculum promotes strong research skills, which you will develop through your final research project/ dissertation; you will be well- equipped to undertake doctoral research in software systems engineering. (*This figure is taken from 2017-2021 graduates, 15 months after graduating and includes postgraduate taught, research and PhD students). Graduates from this programme go on to a range of career destinations. Some work for large companies such as Amazon, Google, or Meta, and others work in the finance sector or start-up world. One graduate gained employment with Zühlke and soon became a main contributor to NHS Track and Trace, the Covid-19 app.  The fast pace of development and innovation in the software world means there are ample opportunities in research and academia, too, with some students going on to do PhDs at UCL and other renowned universities across the world. Register below to receive further information about this programme.  Gecko Form Widget Placeholder21FO00ics5cw7300efn88688eg Join us from wherever you are in the world to hear from our friendly academic staff, students and alumni. Get to know what's like to study in our unique multidisciplinary department, as well as get useful information about careers and financial support. Register for Virtual Open Day  