 Energy labels:   Class A (green) appliances consume the least energy – making them the most energy‑efficient.
                     Class G (red) appliances consume the most energy.   EU rules on energy labelling also apply to some ‘energy‑related products': goods
                     or systems with an impact on energy consumption during use. The rules do not apply
                     to second-hand products or to means of transport for persons or goods.   Since March 2021, the energy label rating system uses A to G rankings only, instead
                     of A to D ratings as before. This new rating system applies to the following product
                     groups:   The first 4 product groups must feature the rescaled labels from 1 March 2021. Light
                     bulbs and lamps must feature the rescaled label from 1 September 2021.   More information on how the energy label rating works.
Open as an external link
   For certain product groups, an energy label must be clearly displayed on each product
                     at the point of sale.   Find more product-specific information on energy labelling and ecodesign requirements.
Open as an external link
   If you are an EU-based manufacturer, an importer or an authorised representative
                     of a non-EU manufacturer, you must do the following before placing a product on the
                     EU market:   The EPREL database will generate all energy labels based on the data you entered
                     when registering your product models. For more information, check out the various
                     energy labelling tools.   All products requiring energy labels must be registered in the EPREL database before they can be sold on the EU market. The information you need to submit includes:
                       The first step you need to take is to create a ‘new supplier organisation' (= your
                     company) on the EPREL website. This will include creating an EU login account. The EU login account will also provide access to the EPREL guidelines for information on the registration process.   If you sell products to customers without any face‑to‑face contact, you must still
                     provide the energy label information. For internet sales, you must clearly display,
                     near the price and in the same font size, the product's:   or   As technologies evolve, so do the rules. Requirements that can change include product
                     information that you must make available, indicators used to rank a product and where
                     labels must be placed. You should monitor:  Get in touch with specialised assistance services Labelling contact form Submit your question using the labelling contact form. Do you have questions on operating a business cross-border, for example exporting or expanding to another EU country? If so, the Enterprise Europe Network can give you free advice. You can also use the assistance service finder to find the right help for you. Thank you for your feedback. If you are willing to give us more details, please fill in this survey. It will only take you a couple of minutes. Due to technical problems, your feedback could not been sent. Please try again later. 800 characters remaining * Mandatory field