Global site navigation Local editions Using the appropriate methods of teaching allows trainers, tutors, lecturers, and teachers to offer enjoyable and productive classroom experiences for students. The demonstration method of teaching is one of the highly recommended methods, especially where practical experience is needed. The demonstration method of teaching is based on giving a practical exhibition and explanation of something. It enhances the retention of skills and knowledge and is highly recommended at all levels of academic learning by education experts. The demonstration method of teaching science, physical education, nursing, and other subjects and courses has been used for centuries. Below is all you need to know about it. It is a visual teaching method that helps the students to understand the content covered theoretically and practically. Dr. Seaman A. Knapp is credited with the first use of the demonstration method. He used it as a means of influencing the adoption of new farming practices.  Read also Malta invites Nigerians, others with special work permit, offers employee initiative The basic principle of the method is learning by seeing and doing. It can be used on individuals or groups of learners. It promotes learning by doing maxim and develops skills by limitation. The motive for using this method of teaching are listed below. In the demonstration method of teaching and learning, the educator gives a practical exhibition and explanation of something, and the learners do as shown.  The types of demonstration include simulations, classroom experiments, operational type demonstrations, and data surveys. The operational type demonstration is useful for demonstrating a working prototype or model of a product or system.  Read also Canadian province bans Nigerian students, others for 2 years Examples of content that can be taught using this method are listed below. The basic characteristics of the demonstration method are listed below. Demonstrations are pretty effective if the educator prepares well for them. Below are the steps an educator should take before using this method. Read also Facebook's algorithm doesn't alter people's beliefs: research Below are the merits of using this method of teaching and learning. The limitations of this method of teaching and learning are listed below. Read also "You can apply with NECO Or WAEC": Flight attendant lists requirements for the lucrative aviation job The most common types of demonstration method are simulations, data analysis, classroom experiments, and operational type demonstrations. The basic principle of this method is learning by seeing and doing. Learners observe as the educator performs an activity before they can do it on their own. The demonstration method of teaching is first attributed to Dr. Seaman A. Knapp. He applied it when influencing people to adopt new farming practices.  The demonstration method of teaching has various pros and cons. It is an effective way of teaching and learning because it enhances knowledge and skill retention through seeing and doing. Legit.ng recently published the types of drama in literature. Most people think of something created for theatre, television, or radio when the word drama is mentioned. There are multiple types of drama, each with unique elements or characteristics. All have a place in modern culture and should be appreciated. Source: Legit.ng 

                Cyprine Apindi                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Cyprine Apindi is a content creator and educator with over six years of experience. She holds a Diploma in Mass Communication and a Bachelor’s degree in Nutrition and Dietetics from Kenyatta University. Cyprine joined Briefly.co.za in mid-2021, covering multiple topics, including finance, entertainment, sports, and lifestyle. 
In 2023, she finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. She received the 2023 Writer of the Year Award.
In 2024, she completed the Google News Initiative course. 
Email: cyprineapindi@gmail.com
 

                Adrianna Simwa                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Adrianna Simwa is a content writer at Legit.ng where she has worked since mid-2022. She has written for many periodicals on a variety of subjects, including news, celebrities, and lifestyle, for more than three years. She has worked for The Hoth, The Standard Group and Triple P Media. Adrianna graduated from Nairobi University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in 2020. In 2023, Simwa finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. You can reach her through her email: adriannasimwa@gmail.com
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you