Years in the making, ND Stevenson's graphic novel "Nimona" has finally be transformed into a on Netflix, with a star-studded cast of voices including Chloë Grace Moretz, Riz Ahmed, Eugene Lee Yang and RuPaul. “Nimona was a character that actually came about when I was a teenager in high school, and it was a time where I was having a lot of really big feelings, and those were feelings that I didn't know where to put them,” Stevenson said at a virtual press conference back in April. “Being a shapeshifter was a big fantasy for me. I really wanted to be able to change my body and my presentation at will to be everything that people wanted me to be, but also aggressively the opposite of that as well.” “Nimona became an outlet for that. She was this punk, just like total rebel, total rule breaker, always doing the first thing that she thought of, always following her heart and just becoming this creature of any size, any level of power.” As Stevenson progressed with developing the character of Nimona, he became particularly interested in "the dynamics of heroism versus villains" and our ideals of what those characters mean. As the audience is transported into this medieval but also futuristic world, a knight, Ballister Boldheart (Ahmed), is wrongly accused of murder, joining up with young teen Nimona (Moretz) to try to clear his name. But Nimona is a shapeshifter who has a knack for causing chaos and if fact, Nimona is the exact creature that Ballister, as a knight, has been trained to destroy. While Nimona is Ballister's only hope to get him out of trouble (even his boyfriend Ambrosius Goldenloin (Yang) doesn't help him), Nimona and Ballister start to become true sidekicks, kindred spirits, as the line between heroes and villains blurs. While some things certainly have to shift when adapted for the screen, Stevenson felt very strongly about keeping a few elements of his graphic novel, including particular elements of what Nimona looks like. “I knew that things were going to change, but it was always really important to me that Nimona herself remain the centre of this story and that the things that made her were not removed, or sanded down or simplified too much,” Stevenson said. “One of the things that was really important to me was her body type. She's chubby and she's curvy, but she's never sexualized, and she's gender nonconforming. She just has her own unique style. She chooses to look this way and so that was something that I just really wanted to make sure at least, no matter how much it might change in the adaption, that was something that stayed true.” Stevenson also wanted to maintain the "darkness" and the "pain" that Nimona has in the story, particularly because, in working on the graphic novel, Stevenson found it "cathartic" to use this story as a way to explore personal emotions. “One thing that I think is really important about this story for me, and it was really important to see in the movie, was the darkness at the heart of it," Stevenson said. "Nimona is not just quirky, she's not just fun, she's not just like a … kick butt protagonist, she has a lot of fear and a lot of pain at her heart, and that comes out as anger." “That was something that I found very cathartic at the time. I was looking for an outlet for my emotions and I felt like I wasn't really able to express them. But through her, I could do that. At the end she becomes this monster. The monster that … everybody's been telling her that she is, and she's just like, ‘You know what, you want a monster? You got one. Here I am.’ That was something that I really needed to see and it was kind of a hard sell for a female character then and now. … The book is dedicated to monster girls and I think there are so many monster girls and boys and beyond who are going to see themselves in her.” Since the film's June 30 release, Nimona has been celebrated for being an unapologetically queer fantasy adventure, but this comes after reported claims that there were initial concerns about the same-sex kiss featured in the film, when Disney acquired animation studio Blue Sky in its 2019 Fox merger. Two years later, Blue Sky was shut down, shortly before the initially expected 2022 release of Nimona. But according to Insider, issues about the film's same-sex kiss started to pop up in 2020. "Blue Sky leadership felt enough pressure in this meeting to leave the kiss out of future presentations to Disney, despite hoping to ultimately include it in the film," Insider claimed in a 2022 article. While Stevenson, who is transmasculine, highlighted that the genesis of "Nimona" began before he was out, Stevenson stressed that ultimately the story is about "acceptance." “There might not be any homophobia or transphobia in the movie, but there are metaphors that stand for that lack of acceptance or for the fear that can be drummed up around other people, other human beings,” Stevenson said. “I think it's just always been part of this story's DNA or just a major part of what's at the heart of the story.” Co-director of the film, Nick Bruno, stressed that Nimona is "a love letter to all those who've ever felt different" or "misunderstood." “I know we all can look back at a point in our life where we've done our own shapeshift in order to be more presentable for people or to be more accepted," Bruno said. “It became, really, such this universal story that was so important to tell. … ND's comic has touched so many people in their heart. … When we started making the story, a lot of people wanted to share their individual stories about what that meant to them.” For fellow co-director Troy Quane, something Stevenson said specifically became a core source of inspiration in creating this movie. “I put it on a little post-it note above my computer so I’d see it every day, he’d always say, ‘Who is Nimona before the movie?’” Quane said. “She wasn’t a character in service to anybody else’s story, but she had her own story and we just happened to be riding into this moment and connecting with these characters as they’re happening. That became such a mantra for how we approached it, and it was super helpful and insightful to keep us on the right track.” Another element of what makes Nimona, in particular, feel unique is that the story leans into how she feels like a real, flawed and passionate character. “I think a lot of times animated films make a perfect cookie cutter of a character,” Bruno said. “Nimona is always unapologetically herself and it’s such a fun character to follow.” “I think really embracing the messiness is something we really wanted to do,” Quane added. “Animation is such a planned medium sometimes that all we could do is say, ‘What would the characters do? What’s true for the character in this moment?’” Ultimately, Stevenson said it's been "emotional" to be able to see his character "come to life" on screen. “[Nimona] can't be confined. She can't be constrained to any form. She is completely free, and she's able to be something as big as a dragon or as small as a mouse," Stevenson said. "So I'm really, really excited for kids to be able to see themselves in that power fantasy.” Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."