Flint City Hall is shown in this 2020 photo. FLINT, MI -- The cost of settling a sweeping racial discrimination and sexual harassment lawsuit against the city of Flint has risen past the half-million-dollar mark after the City Council agreed to settle the last five claims on Monday, June 12. Initially filed by 17 current or former city employees, the 2019 Genesee Circuit Court lawsuit accused the city, former Police Chief Tim Johnson, and former Flint Human Resources Director Makini Jackson of wrongdoing. All but one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit are white, according to court records, and each of the plaintiffs alleged they were either demoted, discriminated against during the hiring process or harassed for being white. Monday’s action settled the claims of former police sergeants Esther Campbell ($75,000), Troy Simpson ($30,000) and Dominic Tefft ($30,000); Carissa Dotson, a former account supervisor ($29,000); and Katheleen Villareal, who applied for a deputy treasurer position after working as an assistant operation supervisor ($25,000). In January, five other original defendants also agreed to settle their cases for $360,000. The City Council agreed to settle the last five claims after consulting with attorneys in a closed session on Monday. Had they not settled the case, the city faced the prospect of defending itself against claims of widespread racial discrimination inside City Hall during the tenure of former Mayor Karen Weaver. The lawsuit claims the city made hiring decisions based on race, retaliated against employees who raised objections, and condoned sexual harassment -- particularly in the police department. The largest known settlement in the case to date involved former police officer Mary Buszek, who settled her portion of the case for $175,000 in January. Buszek, a white woman who was hired as a police officer in 1998, alleged she was sexually harassed by two high-level officials within the police department. After she refused sexual advances, the lawsuit claims, Buszek was unfairly disciplined and was investigated by the city for an anonymous complaint that she had been rude while at work. In 2018, she and other white police officers were reassigned from the department’s Detective Bureau to patrol, the lawsuit says, and one month later, Buszek was suspended based on an allegation that she assaulted another officer. Campbell, a white woman who received the largest settlement on Monday, said she was hired to work for the city in 1996 and achieved the rank of sergeant, working with the Crime Area Target Team. The lawsuit claims she was removed from her position in February 2018 and assigned to “a much less recognized or prestigious position” in the department. It says she excelled in her work “despite significant racially derogatory comments and criticisms from African American supervisors and co-workers.” After Campbell was removed from one case, a police captain allegedly told her, “a whitey shouldn’t be investigating this case.” The city has declined to comment on the case. The council approved the settlement in a 6-0 vote on Monday with council member Jerri Winfrey-Carter (Ward 5) abstaining from the vote. Council members Eric Mays (Ward 1) and Quincy Murphy (Ward 3) were not present for the vote. Winfrey-Carter said she preferred not to vote on all the settlements in a single vote. Read more at The Flint Journal: Flint to pay $360K to settle sexual harassment, racial discrimination claims 17 sue Flint on claims of sexual harassment, race discrimination Feuding Flint City Council takes a break from itself -- cancels two June meetings Want more Flint-area news? Bookmark the local Flint news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Flint” daily newsletter. Their lawsuit alleges widespread racial discrimination inside City Hall during the tenure of former Mayor Karen Weaver, claiming the city made hiring decisions based on race, retaliated against employees who raised objections, and condoned sexual harassment, particularly in the police department. All but one of the 17 employees who joined in the lawsuit are white, according to court records, and each alleged they were either demoted, discriminated against during the hiring process, treated unfairly or harassed on the job. In January, the city settled with five employees If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices