241 New Updates Headlines Analysis Alex Caparros - UEFA/UEFA via Getty Images Nottingham Forest have agreed a deal with Chelsea to sign Callum Hudson-Odoi. There remains a few minor issues for the player to resolve with the London club, but Forest are hopeful that the deal will quickly progress today. The 22-year-old winger would fill the void left by Brennan Johnson, if he is sold today, with negotiations continuing with Tottenham and continued interest from Chelsea, Atletico and one or two other clubs. Steve Cooper’s side are also expected to formalise the completion of the loan signing of Nuno Tavares, the speedy left-back, from Arsenal, which was expected to go through yesterday. An option to make the move permanent is expected to be included in the deal. Forest sources also say things are ‘progressing nicely’ with regard to the signing of Nicolas Dominguez from Bologna, with fellow midfielder Remo Freuler heading in the opposite direction, as part of the package. Negotiations continue over the signing of Benfica and Greece goalkeeper Odysseas Vlachodimos. It could be a busy day at the City Ground, with the club also keen to add a further midfielder. A £30million bid has been tabled for Ibrahim Sangare, the PSV midfielder, but more negotiation may be required to land a player who has always been a hugely ambitious target this summer. Forest have Leicester’s Wilfred Ndidi as an alternative option while interest in long-term target Michy Batshuayi, currently at Fenerbahce, has also been revived, as the club look to bolster their forward options. Murillo, the Brazilian central defender, became Forest’s sixth signing of the summer last night, when he joined on a five-year contract from Corinthians, in a deal with an initial €13m. Advertisement Southampton FC Southampton have signed Taylor Harwood-Bellis on loan from Manchester City. The 21-year-old centre-back won the Championship title with Burnley last season and returns for another season in the second tier. There is an obligation to buy in the region of £20million included if Saints are promoted. Harwood-Bellis said: "I’m really happy to be here and can’t wait to get going. The willingness from their side to get me in the door and when I spoke to the manager and Jason (Wilcox) I think it was straight after then that I knew. "I felt the warmth of the manager and he explained to me exactly what he wants to do and the ambitions of the club that suited exactly where I am in my career and where I want to be going forward, and I can hopefully do it under the manager here. "I want to win, I obviously had a taste of that this summer, but my aspiration is to become a better footballer as well, and I feel like I can do that along the way and learn different styles and different ways to play football and I feel like the manager, the staff and the team here can help me do that." Getty Images Manchester United have completed the signing of Altay Bayindir from Fenerbahce. The 25-year-old goalkeeper has signed a four-year deal to keep him at the club until 2027. The move comes after Dean Henderson's permanent departure to Crystal Palace was confirmed yesterday. “It is a huge honour to join Manchester United and become the first Turkish player to represent this incredible club," Bayindir said. "I have a passion for success, and I will give everything to help this special group of players to achieve our ambitions.    “I cannot wait to start working with such an experienced goalkeeping unit. We will support each other and drive high standards every day so that each of us is ready to perform whenever called upon.” Bayindir played 40 games for Fenerbahce last season and was part of the side that won the Turkish Cup. He made 146 appearances for Fenerbahce after arriving from Ankaragucu in 2019.  Sebastian Frej/MB Media/Getty Images Sergio Reguilon has signed his Manchester United contract ahead of completing a season-long loan from Tottenham Hotspur. Final paperwork is now being completed before an official announcement later today. The 26-year-old travelled to Manchester for a medical last night after the two clubs agreed a straight season-long loan with no fee or option to buy.  There is a break clause in January and the Old Trafford club will cover all of his wages.   The Athletic reported yesterday that United had switched their attentions to Reguilon after previously having Chelsea's Marc Cucurella as their priority target. However, the Spaniard's appearance against AFC Wimbledon on Wednesday complicated matters leading United to a deal for Reguilon. First-choice left-back Luke Shaw is currently out with a muscle injury that is expected to sideline him for an extended period. Additional reporting: Mario Cortegana Matthew Ashton - AMA/Getty Images Japhet Tanganga is set to join Bundesliga side Augsburg on loan. The versatile defender, 24, is leaving Tottenham Hotspur on a season-long loan with the obligation to buy if certain terms are met. A potential €6million fee has been agreed if the club avoids relegation and the player makes a certain amount of appearances. He is currently in Germany for a medical ahead of completing the move. The Athletic revealed that the two clubs were in talks yesterday, and on Wednesday reported that a potential move to Torino was off after the Italian club and Spurs could not reach an agreement. Brighton & Hove Albion have reached a full agreement to sign Ansu Fati from Barcelona. The 20-year-old forward is set to join Brighton on a season-long loan with no option to buy. Personal terms are in place for Fati, who is expected to travel to England and do a medical on Thursday before completing the move. Brighton will cover almost the entirety of the salary. Tottenham were linked with a move of their own for the Spain international but head coach Ange Postecoglou is prioritising a different type of forward before Friday's transfer deadline. Fati won La Liga with Barcelona last season, scoring seven goals in 36 league matches, and has accumulated nine caps for his country. Advertisement  He has the versatility to play as a No 6 at the base of midfield or as a No 8. For Ajax, Ryan Gravenberch largely played on the left side of a double pivot, but he is also comfortable operating on the left of a midfield three in more advanced areas. One of his stand-out attributes is his ability to carry the ball and advance his team up the pitch. His large strides, matched with his excellent close control, allow him to drive past opponents. He is happy to receive possession and his physicality, helped by his 6ft 3in (190cm) height, allows him to accelerate away from players. Gravenberch can draw players towards him and commit them with driving runs. Read more below for a detailed analysis of his style of play... GO FURTHER  Boris Streubel/Getty Images Ryan Gravenberch is on Merseyside for a medical ahead of his move from Bayern Munich to Liverpool. The Athletic revealed last night that the two clubs had agreed a fixed fee of €40m for the Netherlands international midfielder to move to Anfield. The 21-year-old will now undergo medical checks and if all goes to plan will sign a five-year deal with the Premier League club. He will join Alexis Mac Allister, Dominik Szoboszlai and Wataru Endo as new midfield additions for Jurgen Klopp this summer. Getty Images Birmingham City have reached an agreement with Leeds United for the signing of Cody Drameh on a season-long loan. The Athletic reported on Thursday that the full-back was attracting interest from a number of Championship clubs, with Birmingham and West Brom among those making enquiries, and he is now closing in on a deadline day move to St Andrew's. He rejected a permanent move to Hull City earlier in the window because personal terms could not be agreed. The season-long loan will take Drameh up to the end of his Leeds contract, which expires in June. The 21-year-old is not part of Farke’s plans following the signing of Djed Spence on loan from Tottenham, a deal that was confirmed yesterday. Drameh has made only two substitute appearances for Leeds this season, having spent the second half of the 2022-23 campaign on loan at Luton Town. Liverpool have reached agreement with Bayern Munich to sign Ryan Gravenberch. The two clubs have agreed a fixed fee of €40million for the Netherlands international midfielder to move to Anfield The 21-year-old will fly to Liverpool tonight and undergo a medical tomorrow. The deal was negotiated by Jose Fortes Rodriguez from Raiola and will see Gravenberch sign a long-term contract with the club. Gravenberch only joined Bayern from Ajax last summer but is keen to leave the German champions in search of regular first-team football. He started three Bundesliga matches for Bayern last season and has so far featured only once as a substitute in the 2023-23 campaign, against Augsburg last Sunday. Who still needs what in these final stages of the summer window? Arsenal: Versatile defender? Chelsea: Another attacking option? Manchester United: Central midfielder and a left-back? We've run the rule over all 20 Premier League clubs... GO FURTHER  Advertisement (Photo: Getty Images) After the transfer window has shut, clubs are required to submit an updated 25-man squad list to the Premier League. The deadline for this is Wednesday, September 13. Each squad must contain no more than 17 players who do not fulfil the ‘home grown player’ (HGP) criteria. The rest of the squad, up to a total of 25 players, must be ‘home grown’. Premier League rules say that a ‘home-grown player’ means a player who, irrespective of nationality or age, has been registered with any club affiliated to the Football Association or the Football Association of Wales for a period, continuous or not, of three entire seasons, or 36 months, before his 21st birthday (or the end of the season during which he turns 21). As well as the squad list, each club submits a list of their registered under-21 players who are eligible over and above the squad limit of 25 players. GO FURTHER  Premier League rules state that players must be registered by midday on the working day before a game. That means that any players who make late moves on Friday will have to wait until the next round of fixtures to feature for their new teams. Matchweek four takes place this weekend, and the Premier League then pauses for the international break, before resuming on Saturday, September 16.  (Photo: Getty Images) Who's been most active in the window so far?  Catch up on all the ins and outs in the Premier League with our team-by-team tracker... GO FURTHER  The secondary mid-season transfer window in the MLS has been closed for almost a month, but several windows beyond Europe will remain open after September 1, lending added intrigue to uncertain futures. Players can seal a move to Qatar, for instance, up until September 18 and to the United Arab Emirates until September 21. Notably, the transfer window will stay open in big-spending Saudi Arabia beyond Friday. There was initially some confusion over that — FIFA had listed their window as open until September 20. But world football’s governing body allows individual associations to decide the date within a timeframe — and the Saudi Arabian Football Federation (SAFF) website says the window for registration of players for Pro League clubs closes on September 7. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp — whose forward Mohamed Salah is subject of interest from Al Ittihad — has voiced criticism that the SPL will have longer to try and lure players from European leagues, as has Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta. Asked if he thought it was fair that Saudi sides could do business beyond the Premier League deadline, Arteta said: “No. Because they are now a competitor, I think we have to change that.” Clubs in the Premier League and English Football League can do transfer business until 11pm BST (6pm ET, 3pm PT) on September 1. Their La Liga counterparts also have until 11pm BST to strike deals. In Scotland, the window shuts at midnight. In France, it closes an hour earlier at 10pm BST, while it is 7pm BST in Italy.  The earliest deadline across Europe’s major leagues is in Germany, where business has to be concluded by 5pm BST. Advertisement  Ready for a day of transfer twists and turns?  Of course you are. Clubs in the Premier League and across England — more to come on timings elsewhere — have until 11pm to bolster their squads or offload players surplus to requirements and the clock is ticking. Stay with us throughout Friday for the all deals and drama...