Baltimore Ravens quarterback Robert Griffin III, left, and quarterback Lamar Jackson, center, talk to Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers in 2019. The Jets might have the chance to land either Jackson or Rodgers as their starter this offseason. AP The Jets are clearly serious about adding a big-time veteran quarterback. That much we know for sure after a team contingent, including owner Woody Johnson, spent Tuesday traversing the country to visit with Packers legend Aaron Rodgers in southern California. For now, the details are sparse: all we know is that the private plane the Jets took west from Morristown earlier in the day departed Los Angeles International Airport late Tuesday night and arrived at Westchester County Airport early Wednesday morning. The Jets group that spent nearly 12 hours wooing the future Hall of Fame quarterback was headed by Johnson but also included coach Robert Saleh, GM Joe Douglas and offensive coordinator Nathaniel Hackett, who grew close to Rodgers when he was his offensive coordinator in Green Bay. Want to bet on the NFL? See the best NJ Sports Betting sites The Packers gave Rodgers and the Jets the go-ahead for the talks, so they are clearly willing to trade him if Rodgers signs off. But as we await the results of Rodgers Watch 2023, it’s important that the Jets remember: he’s not the only option out there. In fact, there might be a better option after the Ravens opened the door Tuesday to Lamar Jackson potentially leaving Baltimore when they used the franchise tag on Jackson with a non-exclusive designation. That means that other teams can submit an offer for Jackson, and the Ravens will have first rite of refusal: either they match the contract offered and keep Jackson, or they refuse to match and Jackson goes to a new team which is then forced to give the Ravens two first-round picks over the next two years as compensation. Some have framed it as a fallback option for the Jets if things don’t work out with Rodgers. But the Jets should take a close look to make sure it isn’t the best overall option. After all, Jackson is just entering the middle of his prime at age 26. He is improving as a pocket passer and still one of the most dangerous and electric playmakers in the league thanks to his legs. And in 2019, Jackson became one of only two players in NFL history to be unanimously voted as league MVP (joining Tom Brady in 2010). Like Rodgers, Jackson would instantaneously become the best quarterback in Jets history the second he landed on the roster. And unlike Rodgers, he has the chance to be their quarterback for the next decade. But here’s where it gets complicated: compensation. Not only will the Jets be giving up two first-round picks to land Jackson, but they’ll also be asked to make a massive financial commitment: Jackson has made it clear that he wants a fully-guaranteed deal like Deshaun Watson received from the Browns last year, which is still the only deal of its kind. This appears to be a line in the sand that the Ravens and several other teams in the NFL refuse to cross – in part because of the precedent it will set if Jackson gets a fully-guaranteed deal. No longer will Watson’s contract be an outlier given out by a clearly desperate franchise. It will be the expectation for every quarterback negotiating a contract moving forward. It’s a steep price to pay for the Jets, especially considering they can likely land Rodgers for far less – it’s unclear if they’ll even have to give up a first-round pick for Rodgers’ services, especially now that there don’t seem to be many other suitors vying for Rodgers’ services at age 39. Also, Rodgers is only likely to stay for a couple of years, meaning the Jets can get his contract off the books before they have to pay their young rising stars like cornerback Sauce Gardner, receiver Garrett Wilson and running back Breece Hall. Ultimately, those factors make Rodgers the easier and more natural fit to help this roster contend in 2023 and beyond. But as Rodgers has consistently proven, he’s unpredictable, so the Jets had better be ready to pivot toward Jackson if Rodgers doesn’t make his intentions known quickly. Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription. Andy Vasquez may be reached at avasquez@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices