News and resources on retail banking, consumer finance and reinventing customer experience in finance. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Mia-FinTech, the fintech startup that enables banking and financial institutions to evolve towards open finance, and Mambu, a leading cloud banking platform, embark on a new partnership to accelerate the delivery of digital financial products and services. 
30 May 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. A combination of Mambu’s SaaS, API-driven technology with Mia-FinTech’s open, composable and modular platform will be available to financial organisations seeking ways to introduce digitized customer solutions. Mia-Fintech will act as a system integrator, providing an orchestration layer to underpin Mambu’s cloud banking platform.  Victor Indiano, Mambu’s Commercial Manager, said: “To compete in today’s fast-paced landscape, financial organizations need a modern technology infrastructure that scales with them. The composable approach to banking that Mia-FinTech and Mambu provide ensures our joint customers don’t outgrow tech stacks and can instead seamlessly build the digital solutions that customers demand.  “With Mia-Fintech’s expertise in system integration, cloud infrastructure and kubernetes management, and our core banking engine, we are teaming up to accelerate change for the financial sector.”  Launched in 2022 as a vertical solution under Mia-Platform, an end-to-end platform builder that allows businesses to build modern cloud-native applications, Mia-FinTech is focused on working with partners such as Mambu in developing capabilities and solutions specifically for the financial market.   Mambu works with customers around the globe, including Western Union, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Bank Islam and BancoEstado, to provide a SaaS platform built specifically for cloud banking.  To be competitive in today’s market and to generate value and revenue for stakeholders, companies need to be flexible and responsive to change. While, on the one hand, digital transformation has enabled the creation of increasingly advanced, resilient, and adaptable software architectures and IT services, it is important for businesses to acquire the tools to take advantage of these capabilities.  The composable approach offers flexibility in IT organizations and businesses. The system design principle provides software components that can be reused and assembled in various combinations to meet specific user requirements.  “We strongly believe that collaboration is key to success, and this is especially true in the financial world. Banking and financial institutions are increasingly relying on cooperation with multiple partners to drastically reduce delivery cost and time to market for new digital products. Thanks to the composable approach fostered by Mia-FinTech and Mambu, our customers can accelerate digital transformations and create new digital solutions,” comments Bruno Natoli, CEO at Mia-FinTech.  Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre