eTCAM (Embedded Ternary Content Addressable Memory IP Advanced DPA- and FIA-resistant FortiCrypt AES SW library 64-bit RISC-V Application Processor Core Integrated Droop Response System SignatureIP Networks-on-Chips (NoCs) to Accelerate RISC-V Designs SEALSQ Introduces QS7001, a Newly Developed Cutting-Edge RISC-V Secure Hardware Platform, Specifically Designed for IoT security in the Post-Quantum Era Xiphera's xQlave® Product Family Enables Full Compliance with Finalised NIST PQC Standards Ensure Cybersecurity in the Connected Vehicles Era With ISO/SAE 21434 Key considerations and challenges when choosing LDOs BCD Technology: A Unified Approach to Analog, Digital, and Power Design PCIe Over Optical: Transforming High-Speed Data Transmission Pipelined Data Masters in D-Series GPUs RISC-V for the Datacenter: Introducing the P870-D Tunnel Magnetoresistance (“TMR”) Represents Fastest Growing Technology in Magnetic Sensing Approaching $1B SAM by 2030 MANCHESTER, N.H., Aug. 08, 2023 -- Allegro MicroSystems, Inc. (“Allegro”) (Nasdaq: ALGM), a global leader in power and sensing semiconductor technology for motion control and energy efficient systems, today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Crocus Technology (“Crocus”) for $420 million in cash. Crocus is a privately held company and a leader in advanced Tunnel Magnetoresistance (“TMR”) sensor technology. This acquisition brings unique technology and products well suited to serve high-growth applications in e-Mobility, Clean Energy and Automation, supported by more than 200 patents. The magnetic sensing market is expected to increase to over $5 billion by 2030, with TMR representing the fastest growing segment and expected to approach $1 billion in addressable market by 2030. Automotive and Industrial applications are expected to fuel TMR’s estimated 30% CAGR, which significantly exceeds the growth of the overall magnetic sensing market. “Allegro has invested in TMR technology for the past decade, providing our customers with innovative and high-performing solutions enabling them to design products with optimal performance. We are seeing broader application of TMR technology as the megatrends of Electrification and Automation accelerate. This highly complementary acquisition aligns perfectly with Allegro’s growth initiatives and our focus on e-Mobility, Clean Energy and Automation,” said Vineet Nargolwala, President and CEO of Allegro. “In addition to accelerating our TMR roadmap and further strengthening our leadership in Magnetic Sensors, the acquisition will allow us to offer a broader and more differentiated product offering to benefit our customers. We also welcome the deep expertise and technical talent that Crocus will add to the Allegro team.” Zack Deiri, President and CEO of Crocus said, "The Crocus team is excited to join Allegro and unite complementary expertise to create superior, highly differentiated customer solutions. By combining Crocus’ best-in-class advanced TMR technology with Allegro’s long-standing partnerships with leading Automotive and Industrial OEMs and Tier-1’s, together, we expect to accelerate adoption of TMR in targeted Automotive and Industrial markets. I am very proud of what Crocus has accomplished and am excited to optimize our TMR technology’s full potential together with Allegro." The planned acquisition of Crocus will be funded with a combination of cash on hand and a new debt issuance. The transaction has been approved by the board of directors of both companies. Subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2023. Approval by Allegro’s stockholders is not required in connection with the proposed transaction. Webcast A webcast will be held on Tuesday, August 8, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time and can be accessed using the following webcast link: Click Here. For dial-in access, participants can register using the following link: Click Here. Vineet Nargolwala, President and Chief Executive Officer, Derek D’Antilio, Chief Financial Officer and Mike Doogue, Chief Technology Officer, will discuss Allegro’s planned acquisition of Crocus. The webcast will be available in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at investors.allegromicro.com. A recording of the webcast will be posted in the same location shortly after the call concludes and will be available for at least 90 days. About Crocus Crocus Technology is a leader in providing advanced TMR sensor technology solutions to designers and manufacturers of industrial, automotive and consumer electronics. Crocus develops XtremeSense TMR advanced sensor technology which provides the highest sensitivity, lowest power consumption and smallest size by comparison to other magnetic technologies such as Hall, AMR and GMR. Founded in 2006, Crocus is a privately held, VC-backed company with over 200 patents and approximately 85 employees. The company is headquartered in Milpitas, California, with an R&D facility in Grenoble, France. www.crocus-technology.com About Allegro MicroSystems Allegro MicroSystems is a leading global designer, developer, fabless manufacturer and marketer of sensor integrated circuits (“ICs”) and application-specific analog power ICs enabling emerging technologies in the automotive and industrial markets. Allegro’s diverse product portfolio provides efficient and reliable solutions for the electrification of vehicles, automotive ADAS safety features, automation for Industry 4.0 and power saving technologies for data centers and green energy applications. 

Your Name:

Your E-mail
			address:

Your Company
			address:

Your Phone Number:

Write your message:




 © 2024 Design And Reuse All Rights Reserved. No portion of this site may be copied, retransmitted, reposted, duplicated or otherwise used without the express written permission of Design And Reuse. 

 Suppliers, list
	your IPs for free.