And finally, to the departure lounge. CHRIS REASON: After 22 years with Qantas Alan Joyce is into the ejector seat early…  ‘The best thing I can do under these circumstances is to bring forward my retirement.’ - Seven News 6pm (Sydney), 5 September, 2023  Yes, the media and punters got their scalp last week, after a barrage of criticism, with Alan Joyce announcing he’d be packing his bags two months early:  SARAH HARRIS: Qantas has hit another bout of turbulence.  MARK FERGUSON: The turbulence keeps coming for Qantas.  ANN SANDERS: More turbulence for Qantas … JAYNE AZZOPARDI: Qantas hits more turbulence … PIPPA BRADSHAW: More turbulence … JENNIFER BECHWATI: More turbulence … JAYNE AZZOPARDI: … turbulence … NASSIM KHADEM: … turbulence … ALEX CULLEN: … turbulence … SARAH HARRIS: … turbulence … - Various news reports, 31 August - September 5, 2023 And the headlines were hardly begging the departing CEO to stay:  Australians all let us REJOYCE  - The Daily Telegraph, 6 September, 2023  Joyce hits eject button - The Sydney Morning Herald, 6 September, 2023  CASH LANDING - The West Australian, 6 September, 2023 That being a reference to the $24 million Joyce will collect as he opens his golden parachute. CHRIS REASON: He’s loved by shareholders, loathed by others…  They’re joking online it's the first Qantas departure to leave early. - Seven News 6pm (Sydney), 5 September, 2023  So, it’s out with the old, in with the new CEO, Vanessa Hudson, who was reassuring staff in a PR blitz arranged by Qantas midweek and beaming out to the networks to say: VANESSA HUDSON: …right now it feels like we are facing another challenging time.  - Nine News 6pm (Sydney), 5 September, 2023  And that’s putting it mildly. Because, according to Roy Morgan Research, Qantas has gone from the second most-trusted brand in 2017 to the 13th most-distrusted brand in 2023. MICHELE LEVINE: …and in numbers, that’s 181 places down… - Business Weekend, Sky News, 3 September, 2023 And Roy Morgan CEO Michele Levine says the public holds one person responsible:  MICHELE LEVINE: In this instance so much of the venom and anger is towards Alan Joyce, he is actually seen to be by the public almost like the devil incarnate. - Business Weekend, Sky News, 3 September, 2023 So, will getting rid of the “devil incarnate” lead to Paradise Regained?  Not if AFR columnist Joe Aston has anything to do with it. Having successfully shot down Alan Joyce with a barrage of critical columns, he is now targeting Qantas chairman Richard Goyder for his role in the crisis – tweeting this old “WANTED” poster from 2009 that once ran in Goyder’s local Perth newspaper, and a new column, claiming:  … Qantas is only in this dire mess today precisely because Goyder has utterly failed to step up and do what needed to be done. - The Australian Financial Review, 6 September, 2023 And Joe’s not the only one to have switched the attack.  With colleagues at the Herald and the Financial Review taking aim at the Qantas board and its chair for trashing the brand by allowing the company to fly into flak and then rewarding the pilot with obscene amounts of money: KARINA CARVALHO: Pressure is growing on the Qantas chairman Richard Goyder about the board’s decision to award former Chief Executive Alan Joyce millions of dollars in bonuses … - ABC News, 6 September, 2023 And the verdict from some share market experts is no kinder, with a scorching analysis from Intelligent Investor’s John Addis proclaiming: The board are culpable. The fact that none of them has yet resigned suggests they are as hubristic and out of touch as the CEO they failed to manage. - John Addis, Intelligent Investor, 8 September, 2023 We’ll see whether Goyder and the board can get through the latest patch of media “turbulence” that forced Joyce to crash land.  But in the meantime, is there another view of how it all went wrong for the airline?  Yes, take a bow Andrew Bolt who assured readers of his News Corp column: It wasn’t because of cancelled flights and dudded shareholders that Alan Joyce had to quit Qantas — it was because he killed Australians’ love for his airline with his divisive identity politics. - Andrew Bolt, Herald Sun, 6 September, 2023 Seriously? Yes, Bolt says that backing gay marriage and the Yes vote is why the public really lost trust in Qantas and wanted Joyce gone.    We asked Roy Morgan Research’s Michele Levine if there was any truth in that. She told us:  Alan Joyce or Qantas public support for the Voice is not the reason he or the airline are distrusted. - Email, Michele Levine, CEO, Roy Morgan Research, 8 September, 2023 So, sorry Andrew. That one is not going to fly.  And that’s all from us for tonight. Don’t forget Media Bites, on Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. But for now, until next week, goodbye. We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the
    First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we
    live, learn and work.