Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement 
    Sign up for a free Amazon Prime membership so you can take advantage of all the Prime Day deals.
   It's simple to nab a free Amazon Prime membership so you can take part in all the can't-miss deals.  The countdown has officially begun. There are just days left until Amazon's Prime Day 2024 begins, and that means there are tons of sales in store exclusively for Prime Members. This is your chance to pounce on some of the best deals on offer, whether that means grabbing appliances, electronics, fashion or whatever your heart desires. It's all here during the Prime Day sales event.  If you want to take advantage of the deals on tap, you'll need to sign up for a Prime membership if you haven't already. Luckily, there's a simple trick to get in on the sales without having to pay the typical $139 annual fee. We'll show you how.  For more, check out how to use Amazon Layaway this Prime Day and Prime members now get Grubhub+ as a permanent perk.  Amazon makes it very easy to sign up for Prime on its website; just punch in your information and you're set. To sign up for the Amazon Prime free trial, you'll need to provide a valid credit card if you haven't already done so.  If you've taken advantage of the trial before (and we hear you might get the chance for it every 12 months or so), you might need to use an email you previously haven't used just to make sure you can secure the trial.  1. Head to Amazon.com and sign in to or create your Amazon account.  2. Select Prime in your account menu bar.  3. Tap or click Start your 30-day free trial.  4. Make sure your credit or debit card on file is up to date (your billing address, too). If it's not updated, this is the time to do it.  5. Tap or click Start your 30-day free trial.   6. That's it -- you can start shopping anytime and get Prime membership benefits like expedited shipping.  To avoid being charged, you'll need to cancel your membership before the 30 days are up. Here's how.  1. Sign in to your Amazon account at Amazon.com.  2. Go to your account menu.  3. Select Prime (computer) or Manage Prime membership (phone), then tap Manage membership.  4. Select End Membership.  5. Tap or click End My Benefits.  6. Select Continue to Cancel.  7. That's it. Your Prime account should be canceled. You can double-check by adding an item to your cart and seeing if you have the option to ship it the next day or within two days with Prime. If you don't, you've successfully canceled. Some Redditors have said that when they attempt to cancel their trial, Amazon will sometimes offer to extend it for an additional 30 days. Something to keep an eye out for, and if you get your trial extended, be sure to take note of the new renewal date.  For more, don't miss all the early Amazon Prime Day deals you can take advantage of right now. 