More than competition: Sports as a catalyst for mental health awareness and well-being In a world increasingly laden with pressures and the fast pace of everyday life, finding an escape or a release to channel our emotions is more crucial than ever. It’s a breath of fresh air to know that, right here in Lincolnshire, a myriad of sports are available to lend a helping hand, offering solace and a break from the constraints of modernity. Sport, a universal language, does more than just unite communities and create sociable scenarios; it opens doors of opportunities for people from all walks of life. With the growing awareness around mental health in today’s society, sport has evolved to serve a purpose far beyond just determining ‘who scored the most goals’ or ‘who won that round’. Read the full story on MyLocal, the new home of The Lincolnite. FOLLOW US GET DAILY HEADLINES IN YOUR INBOX Exciting news for MyLocal app users and The Lincolnite readers! Exciting news for MyLocal app users and The Lincolnite readers! Our latest update is now available to download from your app store and comes packed with the best local news experience you can enjoy. Discover MyLocal: Download the app today for iPhone or Android Download now to enjoy: Update your MyLocal app from your app store (version 2.73) now and start enjoying these great new features today! P.S.: Start your MyLocal membership today to support MyLocal and The Lincolnite deliver you a better local news experience and honest journalism from across Lincolnshire. P.P.S.: We have some huge things in the pipeline, stay tuned! Exciting news for MyLocal app users and The Lincolnite readers! Exciting news for MyLocal app users and The Lincolnite readers! Our latest update is now available to download from your app store and comes packed with the best local news experience you can enjoy. Discover MyLocal: Download the app today for iPhone or Android Download now to enjoy: Update your MyLocal app from your app store (version 2.73) now and start enjoying these great new features today! P.S.: Start your MyLocal membership today to support MyLocal and The Lincolnite deliver you a better local news experience and honest journalism from across Lincolnshire. P.P.S.: We have some huge things in the pipeline, stay tuned! Visit our new website with all the latest news, events, jobs and properties
