By Danyal Hussain For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:10 EDT, 18 May 2023   |  Updated:  03:30 EDT, 18 May 2023      53 View  comments  A high-flying bank CEO paid over $6million a year has told Australia's minimum wage workers to find another job.  Ross McEwan, managing director of National Australia Bank, appeared on ABC Radio National on Thursday morning to discuss potential future interest rate hikes.  When asked if the minimum wage should rise, Mr McEwan told breakfast host Patricia Karvelas: 'I think those that are sitting on that minimum wage if they're really not happy with their job should start looking around. 'There are jobs out there and I think people, if they are not happy, should quietly find another role.  'The minimum wage is exactly that, the minimum wage. I would've thought most employers are paying well above that just to get great people working in their businesses.' Ross McEwan, the managing director of National Australia Bank, believes minimum wage should not be raised Mr McEwan is paid $6.3 million annually in his role as CEO and managing director of NAB.  Earlier this month, it was revealed that NAB profits surged to $4.1 billion due to interest rates skyrocketing to 3.85 per cent. Mr McEwan said the bank profits were boosted by higher interest rates and a boom in business lending. 'The higher interest rate environment has also been an important near-term driver of revenue this period,' he said at the time. The Fair Work Commission will decide in June whether to give Australia's 2.7million lowest-paid workers the biggest wage increase in a generation so they can cope with the cost of living crisis. But any minimum wage rise that keeps pace with inflation is likely to lead to further inflation and job losses - with honest restaurants most in danger of losing customers, a former industrial umpire told Daily Mail Australia. When asked on RN Breakfast if minimum wage should rise, his blunt response was: 'Those people should get another job' The Fair Work Commission's decision directly affects 180,000 workers in the retail, tourism and hospitality sectors, who are predicted to take home an extra $49 a week.  A six per cent minimum wage increase is tipped to reflect inflation moderating by June. Such wage increases in the minimum wage are often replicated in national awards - which cover more than 2.67million Australians. Professor Mark Wooden, who previously served on the Fair Work Commission's annual wage review panel, said restaurants could end up cutting staff if price rises, made to fund higher wages, reduced consumer demand. Wage theft, where rogue employers don't pass on the minimum wage increase, could also hurt honest operators. While a boost to minimum wage was a boon for low-paid workers, it results in bad outcomes for consumers as business pass on the added cost to the end buyer, and jobs are cut. 'They've either got to pass the price on to consumers, which is what I think most of them will do,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'But some might feel - particularly if their competitors aren't paying the going rate - "Might have to cut a Tuesday or just cut back on the hours or maybe trim the odd employee here or there". 'If they increase their prices, they might find they have fewer consumers coming in the door - so if we're paying $50 for our steak instead of $40 or $39 for your parmigiana rather than $30, there's going to be a few less plates sold.'  
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group