 King Charles is set to travel to Kenya later this year, his first major trip to a Commonwealth country since becoming monarch. The visit will likely be an emotional one for the King as Kenya is where the late Queen was when she found out about her own father's death in 1952. The visit will also take place shortly after the first anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II's death. Queen Camilla will also join her husband on the trip. The King is also due to visit France next month, a rescheduled event that was originally taking place back in March.   READ MORE    Meghan Markle parties with A-listers at Taylor Swift gig while Harry works away   Due to riots over the President's unpopular policy over retirement, the King's original trip was cancelled. At the time, President Macron said that a visit from the King would not have been "good sense". News of the King's visits comes after it has been made aware that the King will spend the first anniversary of his mother's death "quietly and privately". As reported by the Mirror, Palace officials have said that there are "no plans" scheduled to hold any public or private family gatherings.   READ MORE    Prince William and Kate's subtle relationship moments send royal fans crazy    The Prince and Princess of Wales will take lead on tributes and are expected to deliver a public message in honour of the late monarch. After serving 70 years on the throne, Queen Elizabeth II died at Balmoral last September. September 8 will be a day to not only honour the late Queen, but also be used as a day to "look forward". Sources have revealed that the day will mark the end of the Royal Family's "year of transition". We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy   Don't miss...     Harry and Meghan called 'Kardashians of Windsor' for 'smart moves' in Hollywood  [EXCLUSIVE]     Royal Family LIVE: Meghan and Harry's £3m film deal 'insulting' - expert  [LIVE]     Royal Family 'distancing itself from Harry and Meghan' after change to website  [DETAILS]   Sources also stated that the Prince and Princess of Wales are keen to mark the passing of William's beloved grandmother. Despite this, the way in which the pair will address the nation - either in person or via social media - remains undecided. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?