The online retailer has opened their free VIP wait list - here's how to sign up to a pass so you can shop exclusive discounts and special festive treats Boohoo is a Black Friday favourite with fashion fans looking for big savings on everything from trend-led pieces to seasonal partywear, and cold weather essentials. Customers who sign up for a VIP pass can shop these deals before anyone else and nabbing a pass is as easy as heading to their website to join their free Black Friday wait list. Once on the Boohoo website, a big clock counting down suggests that the Boohoo Black Friday sale will start at midnight on Friday November 24. The brand confirms that customers who have a VIP pass will receive early access to Black Friday deals, exclusive discounts on the app, follow up discounts for your Christmas shopping, and special festive treats.  After signing up for VIP access, the retailer also suggests you download the Boohoo app for easier shopping and offers, as well as creating a wish list so that you can buy your favourite Boohoo items quicker once they land in the sale.  Bargain hunters might not have long to wait until they can start shopping big discounts as Boohoo admits that they've been known to drop their Black Friday offers early, but you can stay in the loop by signing up.  Last year, the shopping platform launched a Black Friday warm up event which saw more than 12,000 products discounted by up to 50%, and they currently have some great deals that you can shop now. Here are a few of our favourites: As the temperature has started to drop, stay snuggled up with Boohoo's collection of cosy winter coats and jackets like the teddy coat above. For a lightweight option that is ideal for unpredictable weather, this trench coat comes in sizes 6-18 and has been reduced from £55 to £18.  If you're looking to keep on trend, a bomber jacket is a great option and this stylish grey one is £14 down from £20.  Pretty Little Thing also have fashionable winter coats in their new season sale - this black maxi bubble puffer jacket is half price, reduced from £50 to £25, and their beige teddy coat is similar to the Boohoo style, costing £68.  Knitwear is an everyday winter essential that works well for layering. This cable knit jumper is more than half price off, down to £17 in the Boohoo sale. It's a great alternative to this £29.99 zip up camel knit from New Look.  A knitted co-ord set is an easy throw-on outfit and it will keep you comfortable all day. This jumper and trouser combo is a stylish pick, and it's been reduced from £40 to £16.  No matter what kind of pyjamas you wear, there is something in the Boohoo sale for you - whether a festive romper is your nightwear of choice, or you prefer a short set to keep you cool. This blue striped cami set is classic, cool, and comfy - it's on offer to shop for £12 down from £18. There are also tons of hen party pyjamas and robes on sale, like these rose gold bride squad pyjamas that are £12 for both the top and shorts. Shoppers can also find a 'SKIMS dupe' on Boohoo that is said to flatter all body types and at £8 is a fraction of the price of alternative shapewear. Boohoo clothing is also available online at Very. 