Zion Williamson can’t catch a break this summer. It’s been rough for the Pelicans’ star. First, obviously, he was injured for the second half of the season after an electrifying start with the Pelicans that had the team sitting at the top of the Western Conference. Not even that fantastic start could buy Williamson enough goodwill to keep his relationship with the team out of the news. He was unfairly blamed for the Pelicans’ end to the season where he didn’t play because of his hamstring injury. That never really went away. There’s also reporting out there that the relationship between Williamson and his teammates essentially doesn’t exist.  ESPN’s Brian Windhorst previously reported that there was “limited relationship” there. On top of that, you’ve also got everything going on off the court in Williamson’s personal life that reportedly has the Pelicans “dismayed,” according to SNY’s Ian Begley. I’m not quite sure what that means, but it was apparently enough to have the Pelicans consider trading him for a chance at Scoot Henderson. Now, you’ve got folks questioning Williamson’s work ethic and his drive to get better. Fox Sports 1’s Ric Bucher most recently reported that Williamson has “no interest” in developing a floater or a pull-up jump shot. Zion Williamson reportedly has ‘no interest’ in developing a floater and pull up jumper, per @RicBucher  “Where are the floaters, up and under layups, his pull up jumpers at the elbow? Now from what I’ve been told, he’s shown no interest in developing any of those tricks. Tricks… pic.twitter.com/XIfWfvtpG8 — NBACentral (@TheNBACentral) July 10, 2023  First of all, that’s extremely hard to believe. The problem with Williamson isn’t that he necessarily hasn’t gotten any better in his time in the NBA. Rather, it’s that he hasn’t actually played as many games as we’d all like to see. If you wanted to question whether he should change his body or workout differently to maintain health? Alright. Maybe that’s a bit more fair. But as far as improving? Nah. That doesn’t seem like an issue. It must not be one. Because Williamson’s teammate, Larry Nance Jr., quickly came to Williamson’s defense on this one. I don’t understand the constant attempt to drag Z’s name.. I’m in the gym with this dude all season and he’s consistently putting in work on his touch, jumper, and skill shots. These dudes need to stop putting out fake stories just for clicks. It’s pathetic https://t.co/Hp8RWxahxI — Larry Nance (@Larrydn22) July 10, 2023  “I don’t understand the constant attempts to drag Z’s name… . I’m in the gym with this dude all season andhe’s consistently putting in work on his touch, jumper and skill shots. These dudes need to stop putting out fake stories just for clicks. It’s pathetic.”  It was refreshing to see a teammate come out and defend Williamson in this way — especially considering all of the criticism that has come about his relationship with the team. Sure, Nance goes a little hard here in this response. But you can understand the frustration considering how Williamson has been talked about over the last few months. None of this is going away. Where there’s smoke, there’s certainly fire. The only thing that makes criticism like this fade into the background is actually playing and winning. Hopefully, we’ll see a bit more of that from Zion and crew this season. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy  





 
				© Copyright For The Win 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		