In an interview that obviously resurfaced due to Kanayo O. Kanayo’s trending ritual videos, the prominent Nigerian actor, openly denied having anything to do with juju. Speaking with media personality, Chude Jideonwo, he made it clear that he does not believe in Juju while stating that the only juju he knows is Jesus. Kanayo emphasized that his spiritual beliefs lie solely in Christianity, with Jesus being the cornerstone of his faith. Interestingly, he went on to state he’s not quite offended by the name ‘Nnanyi Sacrifice’ (Father of Sacrifice) as long as it adds money to his account. Watch the video below: The statement has ignited a range of reactions from people who found the actor’s disclosure funny. One @yungeplus: “Daddy KOK. If u like u deny. I dey come collect update for ur house sir.” thuggatunes: “Bro literally owned a cult group.” bright___r: “I hope we all know these money ritual jokes are just for cruise?? No go try am offline ooo.” next_autos: “Na the interviewer I Dey pity for , if kanayo use you , you go explain tire, no evidence.” yandetunez: “One thing about all this Juju or native doctors.. you hardly see them criticizing Christianity some even allow their children to go to church because they believe there’s God. But once pastor clim altar na one juju man for him area he wan use preach.. funny how people will deny doing juju openly and the juju still de work for them.. Juju sef de show mercy.” wyn.stayhomes: “E reach my turn to make sacrifices you won con give your life to Christ. My role model no be so oooo.” NEWS, MULTI MEDIA WITHIN NIGERIA is an online news media that focuses on authoritative reports, investigations and major headlines that springs from National issues, Politics, Metro, Entertainment; and Articles. 
Follow us on social media:   © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName 