Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. Even after traveling by car, and then by ferry. Allrecipes / Madison Woiten As a former professional baker, I'm known among my family and friends for always bringing a lot of baked goods. But, my brown butter chocolate chunk cookies is one item my entire family raves about. Like many cookies, they’re always best eaten the day I bake them. After that, they can lose their soft interior and crunchy exterior. This past weekend, however, I was on a mission to make them last. Over two dozen of them needed to travel on a car ride followed by a ferry ride, then be good to eat the following morning. I ended up grabbing these Rubbermaid Brilliance containers on a whim, and after making the journey, I realized they were the answer I’d been looking for all along. Amazon Buy it: Rubbermaid Brilliance 2-Piece 9.6-Cup Containers Set, $26 (was $30); Amazon These containers (coupled with a good recipe) can really maintain the right crumb for a cookie.  The problem I was never able to solve was that too much air exposure causes all baked goods to dry out fast. These containers are perfect for the job. They were easy to use, kept the cookies fresh, and were easy to take on-the-go. This particular set comes with two large rectangular bases that are 9.6-quarts in volume (or roughly 12- by 8- by 7-inches each). The lids for both bases come with a built-in silicone ring, and two latches that secure onto the sides of the base container. When I push the lid on, I can almost hear the seal secure itself with a soft puff of air. This is a distinctive feature of these containers  — the lids create  a perfect air-tight seal, resulting in cookies that are as fresh as possible. When I opened the cookies up the next day, they were just as good as when I first baked them. Each cookie still had crisp edges, a soft, still gooey interior, and a fresh taste. Not only that, but I’d added pretzels into this batch, they were still nice and crunchy inside. I was getting compliments all day over how tasty they were. These containers were great for travel too, because they’re made with BPA-free plastic that keeps them lightweight and low-risk for breaking. Since the lid essentially becomes flush with the container base once you secure it, they don’t take up a ton of space and they’re easy to stack. I also love that they’re clear, so you can see exactly what’s inside. If you’re making smaller batches, there are plenty of other sizes to grab as well. While they are dishwasher-safe, I cleaned mine by hand since it just had cookie crumbs in it. But for gooier things (like the marshmallow-laden version of my cookies), a dishwasher run will come in handy. It’s not just me that loves them, we ranked the 10-piece set as our favorite food storage containers after testing nearly two dozen others. These containers truly helped keep my cookies fresh, and I can’t wait to use them again and again for my future bakes. For nonstop compliments on your very own cookies, score a set of your own now for just $26. You’ll be the most popular person at the party, trust me. At the time of publishing, the price was $26.  I Never Thought I Was a Stanley Tumbler Person, But After Trying This New Release, I'm Never Going Back These Top-Rated Containers for Potlucks All Have Thousands of Perfect Ratings, and Prices Start at $15 This Cast Iron Tool Is the Secret to Perfect Smash Burgers, and It’s on Sale Right Now New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.