Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), who once had Donald Trump’s ear, tried to get inside the former president’s head on Sunday. (Watch the video below.) Asked to analyze Trump’s behavior in predicting he’ll be arrested this week for the Stormy Daniels accusations and urging supporters to protest, the onetime Trump confidant said: “The circus continues.” “He only profits and does well in chaos and turmoil,” Christie said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And so he wants to create the chaos and turmoil on his terms.” But Christie predicted Trump won’t be able to overcome the bad optics of being arrested. The Manhattan District Attorney is said to be nearing an indictment of Trump for a payment to porn star Stormy Daniels to keep her silent about their alleged affair before the 2016 election. Trump himself said the arrest would come Tuesday. CNN reported the former president expects the legal battle “to help him politically.” “Being indicted never helps anybody,” said Christie, a former federal prosecutor. “I don’t think there’s many Americans who don’t believe that Donald Trump had an affair with Stormy Daniels, and that don’t believe that he paid her money at the end of the campaign to keep it quiet. So, I don’t think that the American people probably see this as a huge crime,” Christie said. “But the vision of a former president of the United States being processed, fingerprinted, mugshoted — you know, what else do we expect Trump to say … than to say it helps his campaign? But being indicted, I don’t think it ever helps anybody.” Former Pres. Donald Trump “only profits and does well in chaos and turmoil,” @GovChristie tells @JonKarl. “So he wants to create the chaos and turmoil on his terms.” https://t.co/2qTFUAwNonpic.twitter.com/hBJKBvtWUS — This Week (@ThisWeekABC) March 19, 2023 John Oliver Spots ‘Deeply Wrong’ Sign Trump Really Hates His Own Kids Kevin McCarthy Says People Shouldn’t Protest If Trump’s Indicted Trump ‘Very Anxious’ Ahead Of Possible Indictment, NYT Reporter Says New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.