Michael Smith wants to use his World Championship triumph as a lesson to teach his children to never give up. The 32-year-old became the world champion – and also world number one – for the first time after he beat Michael van Gerwen 7-4 in arguably the greatest final ever on Tuesday. Smith fired a stunning nine-darter as he finally got his hands on the Sid Waddell Trophy at the third time of asking, having previously lost to Van Gerwen in 2019 and then Peter Wright 12 months ago. That contributed to a run of eight successive major final defeats before he stopped the rot in November by winning the Grand Slam of Darts and following it up with the big one at Alexandra Palace. Smith said: “For me it’s more about when I look at my kids and I say to them, ‘If you’re going to quit just don’t bother’. “You have to keep going, you have to keep persisting with it, the amount of heartache you might get. I lost eight in a row and then I have won my ninth and 10th. “That was what was most important to me, teaching them a lesson and now I get to be selfish now, that trophy is mine.” While Van Gerwen breezed into the final, with an average of over 100 in every round, it was harder work for Smith, who had big battles against Martin Schindler and Steven Bunting, and that helped him regain the belief that had eroded 12 months earlier. “When I lost to Peter last year I said I was never going to win it, it’s not meant to be and that’s why I broke down on stage,” he added. “This one felt different because I wasn’t playing well but I was still winning and I was winning and winning and in the final I knew had one opportunity and I had to take it. “That inner belief, you have seen it today; when it was my shot it was my shot.” Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there’s a possibility we see pro baseball players participating in the 2028 Summer Olympics, the Braves and Reds taking their game next year to the racetrack and make their picks for The Good, The Bad and The Uggla. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL.