click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Published: June 29, 2023 9:28 AM IST  


 

              By India.com Lifestyle Staff 





 | Edited by  Jigyasa Sahay 





 Every day raindrops slide on the window panes. With an earthy smell and windy days, we know monsoons are here. But, they don’t come alone with just water and wind, do they? They have other entailments like waterborne diseases, fungal infections etc. Now that we know what maybe coming, it is on us to raise our guards and try to steer clear of infections. While there are several tips and tricks to stay fit during monsoon, one is to have a certain dietary routine. Yes, we all know healthy diet is always important. No surprises there. But, how can we make our monsoon meal plates different? Nutritionist Lovneet Batra shares list of a few foods that should be added to your monsoon diet. 

 Here are few fruits and vegetables that can help boost immune function and make for a rather tasty meal to enjoy during rainy season.  Monsoon Diet: 7 Foods to Eat Daily During Rainy SeasonVitamin C Food: Food rich in vitamin C has anti-oxidants and anti-inflammatory properties that may help to fight against infection.Beetroot: Colour your meal plate deep red by adding beetroot. It helps to reduce inflammation, has rich vitamins, minerals, and potassium. It can be consumed in form of raw or cooked veggie or inform of juice as well.Jamun – Jamun is loaded with vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that help strengthen immunity and increase stamina of your body. Jamun is also rich in astringent properties which protect the skin during the monsoon season.Probiotics – Include probiotics like curd, buttermilk, kefir, pickled vegetables to make your gut flora healthy. These help boost the growth of good bacteria in the gut, that helps fight the bad bacteria or the disease-causing bacteria.Ghee- Come monsoon and gut problems are there. So, if your guts are causing you problems then ghee will help. Ghee stimulates the digestive juices and helps your body absorb nutrients. It also eases constipation by smoothening colon muscles and increasing their contractility. Further, butyrate acid in ghee is anti-inflammatory, and is effective in curbing gut inflammationSprouts – Sprouts are good for your health and they should be included in your diet especially during monsoon. Not only do protein-rich sprouts make for a healthy breakfast or snack, but they also boost your immune system, thus helping your body to fight germs.Turmeric milk- Turmeric is a miracle herb. Its anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial and anti-bacterial extracts can help you fight infections and boost immunity. Dense in vitamins and minerals, this magical spice promotes overall well-being. So, drink a glass of warm turmeric milk every night before hitting the bed to stay fit during the monsoon.

This rainy season, enjoy a few colours and taste of these fruits and veggies  to stay and fit and healthy! 









Also Read:  


  


Why Consuming Ginger Amid Rising Viral Infection is Important? 5 Things to Know


 
 


  


Diabetes Diet in Monsoon: 5 Foods That May Cause Instant Blood Sugar Spike


 
 


  


Discover The Vital Benefits Of Adding Lemon To Your Diet


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Health News on India.com.
                


Topics
Monsoon Diethealthy foodImmunity BoosterMonsoonFood 




More Stories













   This rainy season, enjoy a few colours and taste of these fruits and veggies  to stay and fit and healthy!  For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Health News on India.com.
                 Ayurveda Benefits: 5 Reasons How Ayurvedic Strategies Can Help Improve Health Yoga For Lungs: How These 5 Easy-to-do Asanas May Help to Improve Respiration Why Consuming Ginger Amid Rising Viral Infection is Important? 5 Things to Know Lung Cancer Day: How to Effectively Manage the Side Effects of Chemotherapy? Obesity And Cancer Risk: 5 Types of Cancer Most Commonly Linked to Weight Gain Why Consuming Ginger Amid Rising Viral Infection is Important? 5 Things to Know Diabetes Diet in Monsoon: 5 Foods That May Cause Instant Blood Sugar Spike Monsoon Diet: Avoid These 6 Foods During Rainy Season Monsoon 2024: 5 Immunity-Boosting Foods For Children to Stay Safe During The Rainy Season Make Tulsi Chai Your Sip to Wellness This Rainy Season; Here is Why it Can Be Your Monsoon Drink By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 