AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — The impeachment trial that could remove Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton from office over corruption allegations is near the halfway point. The historic proceedings, which continued Friday, began this week with testimony about an extramarital affair and the Republican's former top aides testifying they felt compelled to report him to the FBI. Paxton, who is accused of bribery and abuse of office, skipped all of the early testimony. His wife, state Sen. Angela Paxton, sat and listened to it all. The articles of impeachment center on allegations that Paxton improperly used the powers of his office to protect Nate Paul, an Austin real estate developer who was indicted this summer on federal charges of making false statements to banks. If convicted by the Texas Senate, where Republicans hold a dominant majority, Paxton would be removed from office and possibly barred from holding any political office in the future. The trial adjourned for the weekend and was set to resume Monday. A look at what has happened so far and what is still to come. ACCUSERS TAKE THE STAND The only witnesses so far have been Paxton's former top deputies, whom Republican impeachment managers put on the stand to get straight to the heart of case. Jeff Mateer, Paxton’s former second-in-command, and Ryan Bangert, a former deputy first assistant attorney general, testified about why they and other aides took their concerns about Paxton to the FBI in 2020. “I concluded that Mr. Paxton was engaged in conduct that was immoral, unethical, and I had the good faith belief that it was illegal,” Mateer testified. Mateer said staff realized “the why” behind Paxton's determination to help Paul when they learned about Paxton's extramarital affair with a woman who had been hired by Paul. “We had stepped into the void at that point. There was no roadmap to follow,” Bangert said of deciding to go to the FBI. “In my view there was simply nothing more we can do.” On cross-examination Thursday, Paxton attorney Mitch Little laid into another of Paxton’s deputies, Ryan Vassar, saying he went to the FBI with no evidence and asking if he owed Paxton a phone call first. “I would disagree that we didn’t have any evidence,” Vassar replied. “But I didn’t owe General Paxton anything.” PAXTON MOSTLY ABSENT FROM TRIAL Senate rules only required Paxton to be present at the start of the impeachment trial. They also say he cannot be forced to testify. Paxton attended the start of the first day Tuesday, when he gave a kiss to his wife on the Senate floor. She waved to a few dozen supporters in the gallery. Paxton let his attorney enter “not guilty” pleas on his behalf before leaving, over the protests of a lawyer hired by House impeachment managers to lead the case. "The defendant ought to be ordered to appear throughout this just as everyone else,” attorney Rusty Hardin said. Angela Paxton is required to attend because she is a senator, though she cannot vote or participate in the trial in any way because of a conflict of interest. She has been there for the duration, including testimony about her husband's affair. From her desk on the Senate floor, she has taken notes while listening to testimony and chatted with other senators during breaks. She has also posted Scripture on social media. Ken Paxton has also been active on social media, reposting messages from prominent supporters, including Donald Trump Jr. A JURY OF SENATORS The state Senate conducts the trial with the 31-member chamber acting as jury. Republicans hold a 19-12 majority. Under the Texas Constitution, a two-thirds majority, or at least 21 votes, is needed to convict Paxton and remove him from office. That means if all Democrats vote against Paxton, they still need nine Republicans to join them. The early votes in the political trial did not go Paxton's way. His efforts to dismiss all the charges on the first day were rejected, with all but one carrying the 21-vote margin needed to convict. But the early votes showed Paxton has a solid block of support from at least six Republicans who consistently voted to dismiss the charges. That group includes some of the Senate's bedrock conservatives, and they would appear unlikely to be moved off their position. WHAT'S NEXT? Paxton's lawyers have not yet had their turn to call any witnesses, which could happen next week. They have not said whom they might call to testify. The list of potential witnesses for both sides was more than 100 names long and included the woman with whom Paxton had an affair. The list also included former state Land Commissioner George P. Bush, a nephew of former President George W. Bush who previously ran against Paxton; and Paul. Both sides must watch the clock: The trial's rules give each side 27 hour to make arguments. The presiding officer is Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who said Friday that both sides had so far used up about half their time through the first four days. Paxton is just the third state official to be impeached in Texas' nearly 200-year history, and the first statewide officeholder since former Gov. James “Pa” Ferguson in 1917, who resigned the day before he was convicted. ___ Find AP’s full coverage of the impeachment of Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton at: https://apnews.com/hub/ken-paxton New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.