Searching for your content... Phone 
 877-269-7890 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 
Contact Cision
 
 877-269-7890

from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 News provided by Jul 24, 2023, 07:30 ET Share this article /NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION TO UNITED STATES WIRE SERVICES OR DISSEMINATION IN THE UNITED STATES./ VANCOUVER, BC, July 24, 2023 /CNW/ - BTQ Technologies Inc. (the "Company" or "BTQ") (NEO: BTQ), a global quantum technology company focused on securing mission critical networks, proudly announces the addition of Brandt Pasco, an accomplished legal and private equity professional, to its advisory board. Mr. Pasco, currently the Managing Member of Pasco & Associates, is renowned for his expertise in building high-value companies and his deep understanding of technology regulatory law. Since 2014, Mr. Pasco has demonstrated his capability in propelling companies to remarkable heights with private equity. Notably, he was the General Counsel of a high-growth technology and manufacturing firm, which he expanded to amass over a billion dollars in contracts. Beyond his success in private equity, Mr. Pasco managed a boutique law firm catering to the venture capital industry. This diverse experience coupled with his position as Associate General Counsel at In-Q-Tel, Inc., a premier U.S. venture capital firm, underscores his outstanding command of the venture capital domain. Mr. Pasco's service in the public sector is equally impressive, with a 15-year tenure encompassing key positions within the U.S. Congress, Department of Defense, and the National Security Council. His private sector work at In-Q-Tel followed this distinguished stretch in public service. "I'm honored to be joining the BTQ advisory board," said Brandt Pasco. "In my past roles, I've had the opportunity to guide high-tech firms through the complex processes of commercialization, from understanding regulatory landscapes to securing venture capital. Quantum technology is at the cutting edge, and BTQ is a major player. I'm excited to leverage my experience to support BTQ in bringing their quantum-safe security solutions to markets worldwide." "We're thrilled to welcome Brandt Pasco to our advisory board," said Olivier Roussy Newton, CEO of BTQ. "Brandt's profound knowledge of regulatory law for technology firms and his track record in the venture capital industry will undoubtedly enhance our mission to advance quantum-safe security solutions worldwide." Mr. Pasco holds a J.D. from Georgetown University, where he later served as an adjunct professor. Additionally, he has a Master's degree from the University of Chicago and a Bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas. His vast experience, spanning both public and private sectors, positions him uniquely to provide critical insights to BTQ as they navigate the rapidly-evolving and complex world of quantum technology. BTQ was founded by a group of post-quantum cryptographers with an interest in addressing the urgent security threat posed by large-scale universal quantum computers. With the support of leading research institutes and universities, BTQ is combining software and hardware to safeguard critical networks using unique post-quantum services and solutions. Connect with BTQ: Website | LinkedIn ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Olivier Roussy NewtonCEO, Chairman Neither the NEO nor its Regulation Services Provider accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of any of the securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful, including any of the securities in the United States of America. The securities have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for account or benefit of, U.S. Persons (as defined in Regulation S under the 1933 Act) unless registered under the 1933 Act and applicable state securities laws, or an exemption from such registration requirements is available. Certain statements herein contain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable securities laws. Such forward-looking statements or information include but are not limited to statements or information with respect to the business plans of the Company, including with respect to its research partnerships, and anticipated markets in which the Company may be listing its common shares. Forward-looking statements or information often can be identified by the use of words such as "anticipate", "intend", "expect", "plan" or "may" and the variations of these words are intended to identify forward-looking statements and information. The Company has made numerous assumptions including among other things, assumptions about general business and economic conditions, the development of post-quantum algorithms and quantum vulnerabilities, and the quantum computing industry generally. The foregoing list of assumptions is not exhaustive. Although management of the Company believes that the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or information herein will prove to be accurate. Forward-looking statements and information are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks which may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, expressed or implied, by such forward-looking statements or information. These factors include risks relating to: the availability of financing for the Company; business and economic conditions in the post-quantum and encryption computing industries generally; the speculative nature of the Company's research and development programs; the supply and demand for labour and technological post-quantum and encryption technology; unanticipated events related to regulatory and licensing matters and environmental matters; changes in general economic conditions or conditions in the financial markets; changes in laws (including regulations respecting blockchains); risks related to the direct and indirect impact of COVID-19 including, but not limited to, its impact on general economic conditions, the ability to obtain financing as required, and causing potential delays to research and development activities; and other risk factors as detailed from time to time. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking information, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. SOURCE BTQ Technologies Corp. E: [email protected]; Bill Mitoulas, Investor Relations, T: +1.416.479.9547, E: [email protected] Also from this source 
BTQ Technologies Joins QuINSA as a Founding Member to Propel International Quantum Information Standardization 
 
BTQ Technologies Announces the Award of Academic Grants from Mitacs 
 
BTQ and ID Quantique Sign MOU: Collaboration for Developing Next-Generation Authentication Systems 
