The weather is heating up, and what better way is there to beat the Arizona heat than with a pint of ice cream? For those looking for a scoop to try this weekend, Blue Bell has something new for you. They've teamed with Dr Pepper to create the Dr Pepper Float, the ice cream company announced on Thursday. “The best ice cream floats are made with Dr Pepper poured over a few scoops of Blue Bell,” Jimmy Lawhorn, Blue Bell vice president of sales and marketing, said in the news release. “Why not put a spin on this popular treat and create our own version?" Dr Pepper Float is creamy vanilla ice cream swirled together with a Dr Pepper flavored sherbet, the company said. Brunch, Mexican, sushi and cocktails: 23 new restaurants opened in metro Phoenix The new ice cream flavor arrived in stores on Thursday, May 18, in 23 states, including Arizona. Dr Pepper Float is available in pint and half-gallon sizes and will be sold through 2024. Blue Bell ice cream is sold at most locations of Fry's, Target, Walmart, Bashas and Safeway. To locate the nearest store that sells Blue Bell ice cream, use the brand's store locator. Reach the reporter at endia.fontanez@gannett.com. Follow @EndiaFontanez on Twitter. Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today. This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: Where to get Blue Bell's new Dr Pepper float ice cream in Arizona New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.