Kevin Costner’s ex-wife Christine Baumgartner has reportedly rejected the Yellowstone actor’s proposal of US$52k in monthly child support payments as “inappropriate”. The former couple are in the midst of divorce proceedings, with Baumgartner, 49, reportedly seeking US$248k in monthly child support payments. She has also not vacated her and Costner’s beachfront home in California, which the 68-year-old actor alleged is in breach of their pre-nuptial agreement. Previous reports said that Costner initially offered to pay US$38k and has now increased the offer. However, Baumgartner reportedly claimed that Costner “spends US$240k a month on himself and the kids when they’re with him”. In new court documents seen by TMZ, the handbag designer said the new offer was “well below” the US$65K per month she claims Costner receives for renting out a guest house on his property. She also claimed that it was not enough to maintain the lifestyle that their three teenage children are accustomed to, as they are “used to living at the beach and in a gated neighbourhood”. Costner’s attorney said the actor has been paying all of the children’s expenses since separating from Baumgartner and will continue to do so. According to the report, Baumgartner stated that their lifestyle is maintained by a team of staff, such as assistants who clean the home and do the grocery shopping. She claimed that the higher sum she is seeking is also required for expenses such as utilities and bills. She reportedly said she would move out of their home on 31 August as long as Costner provides further financial support as determined by the court. Costner has said that, under their pre-nuptial agreement, she was obligated to leave within 30 days of filing for divorce – which she filed for in early May. But earlier this week, a judge ordered her to move out by 31 July. A source told People that Costner was “relieved” by the ruling, but Baumgartner’s attorneys have reportedly argued that she does not have enough time or funds to find a new home and have asked the judge to extend the date to 15 August. Her lawyers wrote in a filing: “Christine understands that at some point in the future, she and the children will have to move out of the family home. She cannot do so at this early stage of the case because she does not have sufficient funding to secure housing that will ensure the children can maintain similar standards of living in the parties’ respective homes.” However, Costner’s legal team insisted that she “can afford to move” and said in a memorandum: “She has at her disposal almost $1.5m in cash to find alternative housing. Multiple four-bedroom, four-bathroom lovely homes are presently available, located in close proximity to Kevin’s separate property residence… Kevin made multiple offers to assist her in relocating.” Costner has reportedly gone to stay at his 160-acre ranch in Aspen, Colorado, because he no longer feels “comfortable sharing a residence with Christine”. He also claimed that her refusal to vacate the property has “interfered with my work commitments”. Baumgartner is entitled to a settlement of US$1.4m under the conditions of their pre-nup, which Costner claimed he has already paid. In her divorce filing, she cited irreconcilable differences and listed their date of separation as 11 April. The pair share three children together, including 16-year-old Cayden, 14-year-old Hayes, and 13-year-old Grace. They are both seeking joint custody of the children. The Independent has contacted their representatives for comment. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.