Christine Baumgartner has found herself some luxurious digs — despite believing they’re not up to par. Kevin Costner’s estranged wife moved into a $40,000-a-month rental home in Montecito, Calif., Friday after losing her bid for increased child support, the Daily Mail reported Monday. The four-bedroom property sits on an acre of land and features a pool, jacuzzi and manicured gardens, and it leads to wooded hiking trails. However, during her court testimony, Baumgartner complained that the rental is not comparable to Costner’s waterfront estate, to which she and their kids have grown accustomed. The former model, 49, complained that while her rental does come with a pool house and guest accommodations, visitors “would have to come in [to the main house] to use the shower.” She also noted that her sons, Caden, 16, and Hayes, 14, would have to share a bathroom while her daughter, Grace, 13, would share hers “with the house.” For more Page Six you love… When the “Yellowstone” star, 68, and Baumgartner’s divorce proceedings first began, she requested more than $175,000 in child support, which was a $46,000 increase from what he had been paying her. However, the former handbag designer’s attorney, John Rydell, later said that he and his client were reducing the requested amount to $161,592 per month following a forensic accountant’s updated assessment. Despite Baumgartner’s decrease, the amount was still a far cry from Costner’s proposal of $60,000 per month, which she believed was insufficient to maintain the status quo. “Because the children fly on private aircrafts to go on luxury vacations when they are with their father, the Family Code dictates that Kevin should pay sufficient child support to Christine so that the children can go on comparable vacations when they are with her,” her lawyers stated in a brief. Following the judge’s decision to have the “Field of Dreams” star pay $63,000 per month in child support, Costner said that he still has love for his estranged wife despite the acrimonious turn their split has taken. “This is a horrible place to be, but this is where we’re at,” he told “Access Hollywood” following his child support win on Friday. “It feels so bad,” he said outside of the courtroom. “We’re talking about somebody I love on the other side. I just can’t.” 

 Advertisement