Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Thursday May 18, 2023 , 2 min Read ﻿Nodwin Gaming﻿ —a subsidiary of ﻿﻿Nazara Technologies﻿ — said it has raised $28 million in a funding round on Thursday, with participation from new and existing investors.   The funds will be used to expand and incubate new IPs, grow NODWIN's presence in emerging markets, and make strategic acquisitions that will drive value to the network, it said in a statement.  “We have been able to exhibit a revenue CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 68% over the last 2 years in a tumultuous market. We have managed this growth while being able to maintain profitability in our business and gain a global dominant position in mobile esports" said Akshat Rathee, Co-Founder and Managing Director, NODWIN Gaming. Photo: YS Design With the confluence of gaming, esports and youth culture colliding at a rapid pace, as per Rathee, Nodwin is looking to build its value proposition as a sports media company—with a focus on esports, as per the statement.  All existing investors of NODWIN Gaming will join new incoming investors in this funding round, according o its regulatory filing. NODWIN last raised funds in March 2021 from South Korean gaming company KRAFTON, Inc. at a $135M (Rs 988 Cr) value, and this round values NODWIN at $325M (Rs 2624 Cr) pre-money and $349M post money which leads to a value accretion of 2.7X in 2 years.  This deal was spearheaded by Sidharth Kedia, CEO of NODWIN Gaming. Murtaza Somjee from Jerome Merchant + Partners was the legal advisor.  Edited by Akanksha Sarma 1 2 Transform Your Life Now: 6 Japanese Techniques to Beat Laziness  3 Lowe’s talent stack is shaping the future of omnichannel retail 4 Startup news and updates: Daily roundup (August 19, 2024) 5 A case for thinking inside the box The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.