Bloomberg GEI provides a structure for transparently submitting, standardizing, and assessing progress toward gender equality. Keysight Technologies, a technology company that delivers advanced design and validation solutions to help accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world, joins 483 other companies as a member of the 2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), a modified market capitalization-weighted index developed to gauge the performance of public companies dedicated to reporting gender-related data. This reference index measures gender equality across five pillars: leadership and talent pipeline, equal pay and gender pay parity, inclusive culture, anti-sexual harassment policies, and external brand. The 2023 GEI reaches globally to represent 45 countries and regions, including firms headquartered in Luxembourg, Ecuador, and Kuwait for the first time. Member companies represent a variety of sectors, including financials, technology, and utilities, which continue to have the highest company representation in the index from 2022. Keysight’s inclusion in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index demonstrates its long-standing commitment to building a more diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace, further supporting the initiatives outlined in the company’s most recent Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Report. “Our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion is part of Keysight’s business strategy and is critical to enabling our customers and accelerating innovation,” said Satish Dhanasekaran, Keysight President and Chief Executive Officer. “Keysight will continue to prioritize transparency in our hiring practices, pay equity, leadership diversity, and employee support. We are honored to be among this prestigious group of global organizations leading the way toward a more equitable future for all.” "Congratulations to the companies that are included in the 2023 GEI," said Peter T. Grauer, Chairman of Bloomberg and Founding Chairman of the U.S. 30% Club. "We continue to see an increase in both interest and membership globally, reflecting a shared goal of transparency in gender-related metrics.” Keysight Technologies submitted a social survey created by Bloomberg, in collaboration with subject matter experts globally. Those included on this year’s index scored at or above a global threshold established by Bloomberg to reflect disclosure and the achievement or adoption of best-in-class statistics and policies. Both the survey and the GEI are voluntary and have no associated costs. Bloomberg collected this data for reference purposes only. The index is not ranked. While all public companies are encouraged to disclose supplemental gender data for their company’s investment profile on the Bloomberg Terminal, those that have a market capitalization of $1 billion are eligible for inclusion in the Index.     Silicon Semiconductor™ is an Angel Business Communications publication.            You may choose to subscribe to the Silicon Semiconductor Magazine, the Silicon Semiconductor Newsletter, or both. You may also request additional information if required, before submitting your application.  Please complete all fields below.These will only be used to evaluate your application, and to ensure your requested subscription reaches you.  We will not share your personal details with anyone else without your permission.  Please see our Privacy Policy if you have any concerns.