Shein and Klarna have been working together in the last few years to boost their brands and are now going on tour together Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Online fast fashion brand Shein has teamed up with Klarna to tour the UK. Its pink bus is scheduled to stop at key locations across the country - including Birmingham, Manchester and London - giving fans the chance to check out brand new stock. The aim is to immerse shoppers in the Shein world with new denim, partywear, knitwear and accessories on show in the "walk-in wardrobe" on wheels. The outside terrace areas will also host Shein’s new home decor and appliances ranges. Visitors will be able to make the most of the pampering services in a custom-built Glam Stop. Fans will be handed complimentary manicures and hair styling sessions using the SheGlam range too. Throughout the three-day activation, consumers will be given the opportunity to win prices and the first 100 visitors at each location will get a goodie bag. Hello! magazine's Fashion Monthly editor Jill Wanless will be hosting ‘Trends at Twelve’ sessions. DJs Kat Brown Sugar, Emma Rose and Latoya Reisner will also be on the decks providing music for the event. The tour is set to emphasise how much physical retail has bounced back since the pandemic and showcase how important shopping experiences are to consumers. The bus will appear at Crispin Place, Spitalelds, London, on September 20. It will also head to Birmingham's Bullring on September 22, and Manchester's Spinningelds Square on September 23. The event will take place on the retailer's "immersive ‘In Pink We Trust’ tour bus." Cui He, Shein’s director of Europe said: "Here at SHEIN we put our customers at the epicentre of our business and pride ourselves on making style truly accessible for everyone. We can’t wait to meet our valued community in person to share our new collections and engage our customers in our #SHEINTHEKNOW campaign." Megan Gokey, Klarna’s head of marketing North America, UK and Ireland said: "We are so excited for the #SHEINxklarna pop-up as we step into autumn. Subscribe here for the latest news where you live "Online retail has soared over the past few years but there’s something special about hosting in-person events. We’re looking forward to revamping our wardrobes and a packed weekend full of events!" Last year, Shein and Klarna linked up for a pop-up event in Covent Garden, London. The event featured a mix of fashion and beauty, masterclasses, and sessions with fashion and beauty editors. 