Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	January 13, 2023   	
				         Citcon, one of the leading one-stop service global payment platforms in providing in-store, online, and mobile payment solutions, and Klarna, one of the global leaders in the generational shift away from credit cards, announced an integration and business partnership which will add Klarna as a featured mobile wallet available through Citcon’s omnichannel payment platform. Merchants currently using the Citcon payment gateway can now provide Klarna as a payment option for online purchases and in-store payments using Citcon’s payment capability.
The Citcon integration will provide merchants with access to Klarna’s payment offerings, including Pay in 4, Pay in 30, and Financing, to give consumers more choices in how they pay and drive customer loyalty. Merchants will be able to offer these payment options in-store and online on a global basis. For in-store purchases, Klarna will leverage Citcon’s QR-based payment capabilities that allow consumers to either present or scan a QR code when using the Klarna App to make a payment.
“At Citcon, we continue to fuel our customers’ success by making it easy for merchants to offer and accept any form of payment from consumers,” said Wei Jiang, COO & President of Citcon. “Integrating Klarna into our payment gateway continues that mission by enabling merchants to quickly adopt alternative payment solutions that their global customers desire and appreciate.”
Integrating Klarna at checkout will enable Citcon merchants to realise the benefits of offering seamless payment options, such as an average 41% increase in order value from shoppers. The collaboration with Citcon minimises the commercial and integration work required for merchants to offer Klarna at checkout. With just one click, Citcon merchants can provide customers with popular, flexible payment options.
“As consumers worldwide demand flexible payment options and a more seamless, convenient shopping experience, the partnership between Klarna and Citcon is more important than ever,” said Kristina Elkhazin, Head of North America, Klarna. “We’re excited to offer Citcon’s network of leading merchants the benefits of our payment offerings across in-store and online touchpoints to further enable consumers to shop and pay how and where they want.”
Klarna joins other popular mobile wallets and payment methods available through the Citcon global enterprise payment platform, including PayPal, Venmo, SquareCash, AliPay, WeChat Pay, Kakaopay, PayTm, and Grabpay. Citcon’s solution integrates more than 100 different payment methods, from local payment schemes to traditional credit cards, BNPL, and cryptocurrency – all through one single integration and reconciliation and dispute management platform.
 Citcon, one of the leading one-stop service global payment platforms in providing in-store, online, and mobile payment solutions, and Klarna, one of the global leaders in the generational shift away from credit cards, announced an integration and business partnership which will add Klarna as a featured mobile wallet available through Citcon’s omnichannel payment platform. Merchants currently using the Citcon payment gateway can now provide Klarna as a payment option for online purchases and in-store payments using Citcon’s payment capability. The Citcon integration will provide merchants with access to Klarna’s payment offerings, including Pay in 4, Pay in 30, and Financing, to give consumers more choices in how they pay and drive customer loyalty. Merchants will be able to offer these payment options in-store and online on a global basis. For in-store purchases, Klarna will leverage Citcon’s QR-based payment capabilities that allow consumers to either present or scan a QR code when using the Klarna App to make a payment. “At Citcon, we continue to fuel our customers’ success by making it easy for merchants to offer and accept any form of payment from consumers,” said Wei Jiang, COO & President of Citcon. “Integrating Klarna into our payment gateway continues that mission by enabling merchants to quickly adopt alternative payment solutions that their global customers desire and appreciate.” Integrating Klarna at checkout will enable Citcon merchants to realise the benefits of offering seamless payment options, such as an average 41% increase in order value from shoppers. The collaboration with Citcon minimises the commercial and integration work required for merchants to offer Klarna at checkout. With just one click, Citcon merchants can provide customers with popular, flexible payment options. “As consumers worldwide demand flexible payment options and a more seamless, convenient shopping experience, the partnership between Klarna and Citcon is more important than ever,” said Kristina Elkhazin, Head of North America, Klarna. “We’re excited to offer Citcon’s network of leading merchants the benefits of our payment offerings across in-store and online touchpoints to further enable consumers to shop and pay how and where they want.” Klarna joins other popular mobile wallets and payment methods available through the Citcon global enterprise payment platform, including PayPal, Venmo, SquareCash, AliPay, WeChat Pay, Kakaopay, PayTm, and Grabpay. Citcon’s solution integrates more than 100 different payment methods, from local payment schemes to traditional credit cards, BNPL, and cryptocurrency – all through one single integration and reconciliation and dispute management platform. January 13, 2023 January 13, 2023 July 19, 2024 Citcon August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
