SWAYAM Courses 2023: UGC Chairman has announced the registrations for Indian Knowledge System. Interested candidates must apply on the official website. Check the latest updates here. SWAYAM Courses 2023: Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar, UG Chairman has announced that the registration of the Indian Knowledge System has been started Candidates who wish to register for Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds, SWAYAM courses can visit the official website: swayam.gov.in. The courses are offered in 3 streams: engineering, science and technology, and humanities and social sciences. M Jagadesh Kumar also announced the beginning of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) on the Indian Knowledge System. The official tweet of the UGC Chairman reads, “Swayam Courses Indian Knowledge System: Concepts & Application Open now for enrolment! Further to the publication of our book on IKS, we are happy to bring to your attention the starting of the MOOC courses on the above subject.” Swayam Courses Indian Knowledge System: Concepts & ApplicationOpen now for enrolment!Further to the publication of our book on IKS, we are happy to bring to your attention the starting of the MOOC courses on the above subject.   He further stated that the courses shall begin on July 31, 2023, and the enrollment has started now. The goal of Humanities and Social science is t provide an introduction to the Indian Knowledge System and also sensitize them towards the contributions made by ancient Indians in the field of science, philosophy, application, and concepts. The concepts and applications in the science syllabus have been divided into 10 weeks. Students choosing this course will learn - number systems and units of measurement, astronomy, mathematics, knowledge framework and classifications, health wellness and psychology, linguistics, town planning, and architecture. As per the official website, the courses hosted on SWAYAM are in 4 quadrants – (1) video lectures, (2) specially prepared reading material that can be downloaded/printed (3) self-assessment tests through tests and quizzes and (4) an online discussion forum for clearing the doubts. Steps have been taken to enrich the learning experience by using audio-video and multimedia and state-of-the-art pedagogy/technology. Also Read: Gujarat PGCET 2023 Dates Released, Check ME, MTech Complete Schedule Here Brain Teaser: Only High IQ Sherlocks Can Find the Hidden Different Emoji in This Brain Teaser  UP Police Admit Card 2024 Tomorrow: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  Picture Puzzle IQ Test: Spot the Seal Hidden Among Penguins in Just 12 Seconds!  Dr MGR Medical University Result 2024 OUT at tnmgrmu.ac.in; Direct Link to Download UG and PG Marksheet  Optical Illusion IQ Test: Only 1% With Eagle Eyes Can Spot the Snail in 5 Seconds!  Visual Skill Test: Find the odd rose in the picture in 5 seconds!  Happy Rakhi 2024: 40+ Unique Bonding Quotes, Wishes, Messages for Brother and Sisters  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024: 50+ Images, Quotes, Wishes, Messages to Share with be Loved Brother and Sisters  Challenge Your Raksha Bandhan IQ: Test Your Festive Knowledge  Seek and Find Puzzle: Sharpen Your Eyes and Test Your Wit By Finding the Hidden Mouse in 11 Seconds  Brain Teaser: Can Your High IQ Help You Find the Four-Leaf Clover in This Puzzle?  Tripura NEET UG Counselling 2024 Registration Begin, Apply at dmeonline.tripura.gov.in   10 Interesting Facts About Raksha Bandhan  AP EAPCET Counselling 2024 Final Phase Registration Begin, Apply Until August 21 at eapcet-sche.aptonline.in  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024 Quotes in Hindi: इस रक्षाबंधन भाई-बहन के रिश्ते में इन शुभकामनाएं और संदेश से घोलें मिठास  भारत में कैसे हुई थी रक्षा बंधन पर्व की शुरुआत, यहां जानें   IQ Test: Find 525 among 555’s in 5 seconds!  India Post GDS Result 2024:1st Merit List to Release Anytime at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in  MH CET Law 3-year LLB 2024 Round 2 Allotment Result Out, Download at cetcell.mahacet.org  Karnataka NEET UG Counselling 2024: Round 1 Registration Close Today, Apply at cetonline.karnataka.gov.in 