 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN By Isobel Roe The New South Wales Labor government pledged $80 million to establish a Great Koala National Park.  (ABC News: Donal Sheil) The New South Wales government has been urged to fast-track a national park sanctuary for koalas, with MPs and environmentalists saying logging operations continue to kill the endangered marsupials. The Labor government has promised to create the Great Koala National Park in an attempt to protect them from further serious decline. The koala reserve will connect 300,000 hectares of state forests and existing national parks between Coffs Harbour and Kempsey in NSW. But conservationists and crossbench MPs said the government's $80 million commitment to create the park was pointless if it continued to allow logging in the area. Labor has previously refused to call a moratorium on logging, citing concerns about jobs. Dozens of activists from the World Wildlife Fund, the National Parks Association, and other community groups have joined nine MPs at state parliament to form the Great Koala National Park Advocacy Group. Koalas could be extinct across New South Wales within 30 years unless urgent action is taken, according a report by a parliamentary committee Paul Healy from Friends of Orara East State Forest said he travelled from Coffs Harbour to parliament house to tell MPs about the level of destruction happening in his area. "[Residents] want me to tell you about the stench of dead animals that comes up after a logging operation," he said. "That tiny state forest is being destroyed as we speak. "A [habitat] area the size of [Sydney] city is going to be destroyed ... within six weeks." Nature Conservation Council NSW CEO Jacqui Mumford said the viability of Australia's most iconic animals was at stake. "The koalas in that footprint can't pack up suitcases, go on holiday and then come back once it's gazetted national park," she said. Environmentalists have recently protested logging work in Orara East State Forest, with police called to remove residents so logging could continue. Independent MP Alex Greenwich said crossbench MPs were calling on the government to put a moratorium on logging while consultation for the national park was underway. "We need to ensure the Great Koala National Park is not in name only but that it is delivered to protect koala population, not to commemorate the loss of koala population," he said. Treasurer Daniel Mookhey said the government was getting on with the job of creating the national park but it could not rush in a moratorium on logging. A view over the Orara East State Forest near Coffs Harbour, which will partly form the Great Koala National Park. (AAP: Dave Hunt) "We have to make sure we are taking into consideration all the dimensions that are involved in introducing a reform like that because it is so important to the future of the environment, as well as to the state's koalas, as well as people's jobs," he said.  Forestry Corporation's website said the timber industry had co-existed with koalas for the past 100 years.  It said the areas of native forest available for harvest in New South Wales made up just four per cent of the 23 million hectares of forest.  The ABC has contacted Forestry Corporation of NSW for a response. Topic:Aged Care Topic:Social Media Topic:Government and Politics Analysis by Juliet Rieden Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Maritime Accidents and Incidents Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Traffic Offences Coffs Harbour Kempsey Topic:Aged Care Topic:Social Media Topic:Government and Politics Analysis by Juliet Rieden Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Social Media Topic:Maritime Accidents and Incidents Topic:World Politics We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)