Greenville resident Maggie Glasgow has been appointed as one of two co-chairs of Philanos, the nation’s largest women’s collective giving network. Glasgow, a longtime member of Greenville Women Giving, has served on the board of Philanos for six years. Her appointment lasts two years. “I am honored to serve a worthwhile organization that helps drive more than 20,000 women to action. Philanos represents the power of women and the monumental impact they have on local communities,” Glasgow said. Philanos, a global network of women’s collective giving organizations, works to accelerate women’s philanthropic giving by providing affiliates the resources they need to impact their communities. Currently, there are 90 affiliate members of Philanos in the United States, London and Australia. Greenville Women Giving is one of the largest affiliates, with more than 550 members and annual giving of more than $500,000. Glasgow is responsible for establishing a new shared leadership model for Philanos. She has been a member of GWG for 16 years, four of them as co-chair. “Shared leadership is one of the chief reasons for Greenville Women Giving’s success,” she said. Glasgow’s co-chair is Sandy Cook, a member of Impact100 Metro Denver and a legacy member of Women’s Giving Alliance of NE Florida in Jacksonville. Greenville Women Giving was created in 2006. Since its founding, GWG has awarded 146 grants totaling over $8 million. Membership in Greenville Women Giving is open to women who commit to the annual contribution. The Greenville Jewish Federation, a 76-year-old nonprofit dedicated to strengthening the Upstate’s Jewish community, has hired its first CEO – Courtney Tessler. The federation works to support educational programs, social services, cultural events, and advocacy efforts that promote Jewish values, heritage, and unity, said Elizabeth Lapidus, the board president. People of the Jewish faith have lived in the Upstate since at least 1794, when Eleazar Elizar was named postmaster for the village of Pleasantburg – which was the precursor to Greenville. As the Federation grows to meet the needs of a changing Upstate, the board decided it was time to chart a new path forward, Lapidus said. Tessler’s goal will be to elevate the Federation's impact and foster collaboration among community members, organizations and partners, Lapidus said. Tessler has served on the federation board since 2015. With a background in organizational leadership, nonprofit service and a passion for her Jewish community, Tessler has started planning events and programs and creating partnerships. She said her short-term goal for the organization is growth. “By transitioning to a professionally led organization and expanding its leadership team, the federation aims to elevate its ability to meet the evolving needs of the community, drive growth, foster unity, and ensure a vibrant Jewish future for generations to come,” Lapidus said. The Greenville Jewish Federation is dedicated to serving and strengthening the Jewish community in Greenville and neighboring counties through philanthropy and community building. BridgeWay Station’s first tenant has opened, The Worx at BridgeWay Station. The Worx is a membership-based co-working community that offers spaces tailored for freelancers, entrepreneurs, small businesses and hybrid workers. The Worx features four private offices, communal working spaces, conference rooms and a kitchenette. A variety of plans are available, including designated offices, private offices, hot desks, day passes, and business addresses. For information, go to https://www.theworxatbridgeway.com/memberships. “The Worx will cater to the residents and community in different ways, serving a multitude of desires and needs,” said Phil Hughes, Owner and President of Hughes Investments Inc. The co-working space is located on the ground floor adjacent to the residential lobby of the Avvio apartments. Membership will be offered to residents and nonresidents of BridgeWay. Global Management Partners, based in Greer, has acquired Koch Project Solutions. Koch Project Solutions is owned by Koch Engineered Solutions in Houston. GMP, a comprehensive project management contractor, will be able to expand its geographical reach into the Gulf Coast region. Through the acquisition, GMP will welcome additional clients in sectors such as energy transition, carbon capture and the circular economy. “The simultaneous expansion of GMP’s design engineering and construction management capabilities shows our true commitment to our clients as well as the rapidly expanding U.S. energy transition movement,” said Price Howard, President of GMP. While establishing its new location in Houston, GMP will maintain its home base in Greer and other project sites across the U.S. Global Management Partners is a program and project management company providing services to support clients from strategic planning to execution, start-up, and comprehensive maintenance of projects and facilities, domestically and internationally. The City of Mauldin is accepting proposals from South Carolina artists for the 2024 Mauldin Public Art Trail installation at the Mauldin Cultural Center. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. Sept. 25. This year’s theme is “Soaring Energy,” to express that the pulse of the Mauldin community is strong and steady with everything working in harmony. Proposals should reflect the theme. “The Mauldin Public Art Trail doesn’t only draw residents and visitors to understand the city’s cultural environment, it also allows those visitors to look at each piece as a snapshot of the time when the piece was designed, crafted and installed,” said Taft Matney, chair of City Council's Economic Planning and Development Committee and Mayor Pro Tempore. For information and an application, go to www.mauldinculturalcenter.org/public-art-trail. A selection committee will choose two finalists, who will be asked to develop conceptual designs. The finalist will be chosen by Dec. 5, when a contract will be issued, and fabrication can begin. The total budget cannot exceed $15,000 and must be inclusive of fabrication, artist fees and installation. The project is expected to be completed and installed in April. The Mauldin Public Art Trail was created in 2014. The trail lines the perimeter of the outdoor amphitheater at the Mauldin Cultural Center. Previous themes include “Heroes and Leaders,” “Youth: Passion for Change,” “Industry of the Upstate,” “Appreciation of Diversity,” “South Carolina Strong” and “Crossroads.” Christian Groomes, a Senior Sales Manager with Lima One Capital in Greenville, has been named a Top Emerging Star by Scotsman Guide. The honor goes to loan originators under the age of 40 who have tripled their production volume in the past year. Groomes was also named a Top Originator for 2022 by Scotsman Guide, a leading publication in the mortgage industry. An Upstate native and Clemson graduate and football player, Groomes has been an originator with Lima One since 2018. Since its inception in 2010, Lima One Capital has funded over $7 billion in business-purpose real estate loans. With a reach across 46 states, Lima One operates as a capital partner for both real estate investors and brokers by financing residential investment strategies including fix and flips, rental, new construction, and multifamily. Ten at the Top and the Hughes Investments Elevate Upstate Grants Initiative are accepting applications. The purpose of the Elevate Upstate Grants is to identify and fund programs that promote community and economic vibrancy in the Upstate. In 2023, the initiative will award three grants of up to $5,000 each to neighborhood associations, civic- or community-based organizations, nonprofit organizations or local governments. Two of the grants will be awarded to applicants. The third grant will be awarded to a project at the new BridgeWay Station development in Mauldin. Applicants must be located in Abbeville, Anderson, Cherokee, Greenville, Greenwood, Laurens, Oconee, Pickens, Spartanburg or Union counties. Proposals can seek to produce a mural, sculpture or signage, or implement the first of an ongoing or annual event or program. The deadline for full applications is Sept. 22. For information, go to https://tenatthetop.org/hughes-investments-elevate-upstate-grants-initiative/. The Simpsonville Area Chamber of Commerce Women's Impact Network will meet from 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. Sept. 5 at the chamber, Prisma Health Conference Room, 105A W. Curtis Street. WIN is a way to start the day with coffee, networking with fellow women in business, and giving back to the community. Each event includes a short presentation from a monthly sponsor, a spotlight presentation from a local non-profit organization, and time to network. Guests are invited to bring a small donation for each charity. The September sponsor is Primerica. The featured nonprofit is RIZE. Primerica is a financial services company that specializes in a “Buy Term and Invest the Difference” philosophy, which includes term life insurance and investment strategy. RIZE is a school-based drug prevention and early intervention program for middle school students. Sponsorships of monthly WIN events are $150. Featured charities are nonprofit organizations that serve Simpsonville and the Upstate. For information, go to https://members.simpsonvillechamber.com/events/details/women-s-impact-network-win-09-05-2023-57052?calendarMonth=2023-09-01. The Simpsonville Area Chamber of Commerce Business After Hours will be hosted by The Exercise Coach from 5 to 7 p.m. Aug. 24 at 117 Batesville Rd, Suite 103. The event will include networking, drinks and light refreshments. Events are an opportunity for members to highlight their businesses and for guests to expand their networks. The Exercise Coach promotes two, 20-minute workouts per week. With proprietary machines powered by artificial intelligence, coaches guide clients through data-driven workouts that optimize safety, effectiveness and efficiency. For information, go to members.simpsonvillechamber.com/events/details/business-after-hours-hosted-by-the-exercise-coach-56730?calendarMonth=2023-08-01