Why Amazon is actually bad at disrupting businesses, the state of the retail apocalypse, and Puerto Rico’s tax dodging crypto bros. Choose your preferred player: For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a 10-digit phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the
        podcast in your app: We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up
          manually: 
How does this work?
 
We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet
We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer,
          click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed,  check our FAQ.
 Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Felix Salmon, Emily Peck, and Elizabeth Spiers are joined by author Jason Del Rey to talk physical retail’s woes. They discuss Jason’s new book, Winner Sells All: Amazon, Walmart and the Battle for Our Wallets. Then they dig into what is going on with physical retail space and how looting can help Amazon and other resalers. And finally, why the IRS is investigating crypto bros in Puerto Rico. In the Plus segment: What happened to Taco Tuesday? If you enjoy this show, please consider signing up for Slate Plus. Slate Plus members get an ad-free experience across the network and an additional segment of our show every week. You’ll also be supporting the work we do here on Slate Money. Sign up now at slate.com/moneyplus to help support our work. Podcast production by Cheyna Roth A weekly roundup of the most important stories from the worlds of business and finance, hosted by Felix Salmon, Emily Peck, and Elizabeth Spiers. Emily Peck  is the co-host of Slate Money and a markets correspondent for Axios. Felix Salmon is a host of the Slate Money podcast. Elizabeth Spiers is Slate’s Pay Dirt columnist. She was the founding editor of Gawker and the former editor in chief of the New York Observer. Prior to Gawker, she was a financial analyst. Slate is published by The Slate
          Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents ©
        2024
        The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.