
Highlights:
 
L3Harris Technologies LHX announced today receiving a $40 million Department of Defense contract to deliver 14 Vehicle Agnostic Modular Palletized ISR Rocket Equipment - or VAMPIRE™ multi-purpose weapons system - to strengthen Ukrainian security defense efforts.
 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230106005414/en/ The L3Harris VAMPIRE kit will allow Ukraine ground forces to target and shoot down enemy drones and defend against adversary ground threats. The systems ordered by DoD are tailored to provide critical defense assets to help Ukraine protect against attacks on civilian infrastructure. (Photo: Business Wire) 
The portable VAMPIRE kit will allow Ukraine ground forces to target and shoot down enemy drones and defend against adversary ground threats. The systems ordered by DoD are tailored to provide critical defense assets to help Ukraine protect against attacks on civilian infrastructure.
 
"We've invested in procurement, testing and certification since August so VAMPIRE production can begin without delay," said Luke Savoie, President, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, L3Harris. "We're committed to supporting a U.S. strategic partner with a robust capability, as the people of Ukraine continue to defend their country and protect their independence."
 
Under the DoD contract, L3Harris will install VAMPIRE kits on U.S. government-provided vehicles for agile combat support to the Ukrainian battlefield. The contract calls for L3Harris to deliver 14 VAMPIRE systems to DoD, with four delivered by mid-2023 and ten more delivered by the end of 2023.
 
The VAMPIRE prototype, submitted to DoD in April, was selected in August as part of DoD's $3 billion security assistance package under the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative. The company began field testing in 2021 and continued range and durability tests in summer 2022.
 
The VAMPIRE's mission management system integrates an advanced WESCAM MX-10 RSTA targeting sensor with its weapons station, allowing an operator to quickly and accurately engage targets. The low-cost, highly accurate Advanced Precision Kill Weapons System rocket, selected specifically for use in Ukraine, provides increased lethality for engaging small or soft targets when combined with L3Harris' proximity fuze.
 
About L3Harris Technologies
 
L3Harris Technologies is a trusted disruptor for the global aerospace and defense industry. With customers' mission-critical needs always in mind, our 46,000 employees deliver end-to-end technology solutions connecting the space, air, land, sea and cyber domains.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations, assumptions and estimates of future performance and economic conditions. Such statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future trends to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements about system capabilities and timing of deliveries are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties. L3Harris disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230106005414/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.