
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- IANS)  Bengaluru, Feb 14 (IANS) Power management company Eaton showcased a diverse range of its advanced sustainable aerospace technologies and products, which include conveyance, electromechanical actuators, engine solutions, hydraulic pumps and motors, and fuel systems at the Aero India exhibition.The Aero India biennial Aero show and aviation exhibition is being held at the Yelahanka Air Force Station here February 13-17.With a footprint spread across 41 global facilities, Eaton's Aerospace Group manufactures hydraulic, fuel, oxygen, air conveyance, electrical, motion control, and engine solutions; and serves the leading original equipment manufacturers.On Eaton's presence in India, Desmond Goh, Managing Director - Asia Pacific, Aerospace Group, Eaton, said the group has been in the Indian skies for decades in both-military and commercial aviation sectors, along with the platforms being introduced to these markets by global original equipment manufacturers.Eaton's aerospace footprint in India includes two manufacturing plants in Coimbatore and Bengaluru, three sales offices in Coimbatore, Bengaluru, and Delhi, and engineering support from Pune.In the aerospace industry, Eaton's portfolio includes hydraulic, fuel, oxygen, air conveyance, electrical, motion control, and engine solutions, as well as aftermarket service and support. Eaton serves commercial and military aerospace, marine, and defence markets worldwide.--IANSvj/vdMENAFN14022023000231011071ID1105572076 The Aero India biennial Aero show and aviation exhibition is being held at the Yelahanka Air Force Station here February 13-17. With a footprint spread across 41 global facilities, Eaton's Aerospace Group manufactures hydraulic, fuel, oxygen, air conveyance, electrical, motion control, and engine solutions; and serves the leading original equipment manufacturers. On Eaton's presence in India, Desmond Goh, Managing Director - Asia Pacific, Aerospace Group, Eaton, said the group has been in the Indian skies for decades in both-military and commercial aviation sectors, along with the platforms being introduced to these markets by global original equipment manufacturers. Eaton's aerospace footprint in India includes two manufacturing plants in Coimbatore and Bengaluru, three sales offices in Coimbatore, Bengaluru, and Delhi, and engineering support from Pune. In the aerospace industry, Eaton's portfolio includes hydraulic, fuel, oxygen, air conveyance, electrical, motion control, and engine solutions, as well as aftermarket service and support. Eaton serves commercial and military aerospace, marine, and defence markets worldwide. --IANS vj/vd MENAFN14022023000231011071ID1105572076 MENAFN14022023000231011071ID1105572076 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN