Japan said it would expand restrictions on exports of 23 types of leading-edge chipmaking technology, as the US ratchets up efforts to limit China’s access to key semiconductor know-how. About 10 Japanese firms, including leading gearmaker Tokyo Electron Ltd, would need to get licenses to ship a broader-than-expected array of equipment used to transform silicon into chips, spanning cleaning, deposition, annealing, lithography, etching and testing. Tokyo’s move follows months of lobbying by the US to get Japan to join it in tightening shipments of semiconductor tools to China. Japan and the Netherlands had agreed in principle to join the US, but have sought to chart a middle road between the two superpowers. Japanese Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Yasutoshi Nishimura said the move was not in coordination with the US and was not a ban. “These export controls apply to all regions and are not meant to target any one country,” he told reporters yesterday. “We will be looking at whether there is any danger of military appropriation.” However, domains that are categorized as Japan’s most-favored trading partners — such as Taiwan and Singapore — would be able to continue importing without a license, trade ministry officials said.  Shipments of restricted equipment to China would require sign-offs by export control officials. Japan’s announcement comes a day before Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs Yoshimasa Hayashi’s visit to China — the first by a foreign minister in more than three years. It also coincides with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen’s (蔡英文) trip to the US. With the help of the Netherlands and Japan, the US is seeking to create a global blockade to prevent China from getting key equipment now essential to make the most advanced chips used in quantum computing, advanced wireless networks and artificial intelligence. Much hinges on how Japan implements the controls. If Japan refuses to approve any, that could be a blow for the country’s semiconductor equipment manufacturers, as well as for China, Morningstar analyst Kazunori Ito said. Tokyo’s measures — which would be subject to public comment before implementation slated for July — affect a wide range of equipment, similar to the US curbs in scope. Etching machines that are capable of making 14 and 16-nanometer and more advanced chips would be affected, for instance. “If our exports are not being reappropriated for military use, we will continue shipments,” Nishimura told reporters. “We believe the impact on companies will be limited.” The US, Netherlands and Japan together control critical equipment now necessary for China to make leading-edge chips. Washington has banned US gear suppliers Applied Materials Inc, Lam Research Corp and KLA Corp from shipping some of their most advanced technology to China without a license. Japan’s Tokyo Electron and the Netherlands’s ASML Holding NV are the two other critical suppliers that the US needs to contain China’s technological ascent. Japan’s planned export controls include tools used to clean silicon wafers of impurities, extreme ultraviolet mask-testers, as well as all immersion lithography machines. Screen Holdings Co, Lasertec Corp and Nikon Corp are suppliers of such equipment. Over the long term, China would be forced to develop its own chipmaking machines, Toyo Securities analyst Hideki Yasuda said.  “A complete decoupling of standards in chips would make it difficult for China to produce semiconductors at low cost,” he said. Beijing has said such restrictions threaten the stability of the global supply chain and that national security justifications are dubious. 
FOPLP PLANS?
                                         The chipmaker said the budget was for fab construction and manufacturing facilities, but did not comment on reports of talks with Innolux                                        Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co’s (TSMC, 台積電) board of directors yesterday approved capital appropriations of US$29.62 billion to install and upgrade the firm’s chip manufacturing process technologies, as well as its advanced and mature packaging technology capacity.
The capital expenditure budget would also be for fab construction and installation of manufacturing facilities, the world’s biggest contract chipmaker said in a statement.
TSMC did not comment on reports that it was in talks with flat-panel display maker Innolux Corp (群創) to acquire an idle plant as it prepares to convert manufacturing equipment into a new chip packaging production line that is to use fan-out                                     

                                                                                Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC, 台積電), yesterday said it has signed an agreement with Innolux Corp (群創) to acquire the flat-panel display maker’s plant in Tainan for NT$17.14 billion (US$530.6 million) amid supply constraints of its advanced packaging capacity constraints. 
TSMC plans to use the plant, including buildings and manufacturing facilities, for future operations, the world’s biggest foundry service provider said in a filing with the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 
The chipmaker did not elaborate on whether it would convert the plant into a new panel-level packaging factory, or expand its advanced packaging chip-on-wafer-on-substrate (CoWoS) capacity.
The chipmaker "is working whatever it                                     

                                                                                The world’s biggest steel producer sounded the alarm about a crisis in China that carries the potential to send global shock waves, warning of a deeper industry downturn than major events in 2008 and 2015.
Conditions in China are like a “harsh winter” that would be “longer, colder and more difficult to endure than we expected,” China Baowu Steel Group Corp (寶武鋼鐵集團) chairman Hu Wangming (胡望明) told staff at the company’s half-year meeting.
For commodities including steel, the warning from Baowu underscores risks to demand and prices, as well as what ArcelorMittal SA, the No. 2 firm in the industry, called an                                     

                                                                                As monsoon rains were about to break over Pakistan, 14-year-old Shamila and her 13-year-old sister Amina were married off in exchange for money, a decision their parents made to help the family survive the threat of floods.
“I was happy to hear I was getting married... I thought my life would become easier,” Shamila said after her wedding to a man twice her age in hope of a more prosperous life. “But I have nothing more, and with the rain, I fear I will have even less, if that is possible.”
Pakistan’s high rate of marriages for underage girls had been inching                                    