Dear Amy: Four couples agreed to split a very reasonably priced vacation home – four bedrooms and four baths. Each couple paid one-fourth of the total to the owner in advance. A week before our planned vacation, one couple contracted Covid. As two of the other travelers were immunocompromised, the Covid Couple chose to cancel, even though they would probably have been well enough to travel by the time the house share was to start. The owner of the house graciously reduced the price to that for three couples and refunded the difference (less than one-fourth of the total cost). This left the Covid Couple subsidizing the other three couples by a total of $600. Some people believe that those who traveled should equally reimburse the Covid Couple (who received $0 value) the $600, leaving the travelers to pay the cost of the house. Some think the Covid Couple is out of luck since they canceled late, even though the owner reduced the total price. The money is not enough to change any of these couples’ lives in any way – that’s not the issue. (There was no travel insurance involved.) Thoughts? – Curious Dear Curious: I agree that the Covid Couple is out of luck – much as they would be if one had broken an ankle and couldn’t travel. However – friends stay friends by picking up the pieces when tough things happen, and if it wouldn’t break the bank for each traveling couple to reimburse the Covid Couple $200, then that’s what they should do. Check out prior Ask Amy columns (You can email Amy Dickinson at askamy@amydickinson.com or send a letter to Ask Amy, P.O. Box 194, Freeville, NY 13068. You can also follow her on Twitter @askingamy or Facebook. ©2023 Amy Dickinson. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.