Christmas is just a few days away but there’s still time to get that someone special in your life a great gift. See experts’ tips on how to impress with last-minute buys. Don't miss out on the headlines from SmartDaily. Followed categories will be added to My News. It’s that time of the year when finding the perfect present involves driving around in circles and shouting at the driver who stole your parking spot.  As the Christmas consumer rush begins, buying gifts at the last minute can be made easier with some tips by shopping experts. Australian Retailers Association chief executive Paul Zahra says most shoppers are expected to head in-store to buy gifts, given the December 19 delivery cut-off.  “People can take advantage of extended trading hours, which really ramp up in the next few days,” he says. “The hot-ticket items are food and alcohol, followed by gift cards and toys.”  Kelly Slessor, ecommerce coach futurist and founder of Shop You, says gift cards are among the top searched last-minute gift trends on Google. “This year, Australians searched for gift cards 2.1m times per month,” she says. “In the last seven days, Coles Celebration gift card searches increased by over 3000 per cent.”  Meanwhile, Apple AirPods have increased by 90 per cent in the last seven days. Scentre Group’s Jacqui Waine says a Westfield digital gift card is a great way to make sure loved ones get exactly what they had their eye on. “From the person who has everything, the voracious reader, or even the movie marathoner, Westfield digital gift cards live in the recipient’s digital wallet and are redeemable at participating Westfield retailers in-centre or online,” she says. Alcoholic gifts are always popular stocking fillers, according to Mia Lloyd, general manager of Coles Liquor. “If your loved one enjoys spirits, the Baileys Australian Rivermint Chocolate Liqueur has been very popular this Christmas,” she says.  “Gift packs are a popular present idea that don’t require wrapping. The Veuve Clicquot Yellow Label Brut Fridge is this year’s premium collectable and a great gift to anyone who loves their bubbles. We also recommend the Mumm twin flute pack gift pack.” Phil Bishop, chief executive of The Reject Shop, says top gifts that won’t break the bank include the fabric bluetooth cylinder speaker and the 10-piece mini bath fizzer gift set.  Then there’s exotic experiences, with 74 per cent of Australians admitting “a gifted experience shows them how well their loved ones really know them”, says RedBalloon’s Timothy Harrison.  “The top trending experiences include dining experiences, hot air ballooning and scenic cruises, which are all extra special and best shared with loved ones,” he says.  Hannah Chapman’s go-to for last minute gifts is Liquorland. “A good alcoholic gift shows thought and consideration … even if it’s bought at the last minute,” she says. For those who have missed the Christmas delivery deadline, Uber Package is offering same day delivery service. “Simply wrap your pressie, order an Uber Package trip in the Uber app, and watch your gift be delivered in real time,” Margarita Peker, head of rider operations at Uber ANZ, says.  Brendan Straw of ShopFully Australia says for those looking to catch a bargain, it’s worth “browsing catalogues to prevent blowing your budget and find gift-giving ideas for loved ones that are tricky to buy for.” Looking for a gift for that difficult someone? Try these ideas. NutriBullet blender mega pack nutrient extractor Includes everything they need to break down the toughest ingredients without trouble. $119 from Harvey Norman. Philips smart digital airfryer XXL Fits a whole chicken or 1.4kg of fries, and automatically adjusts the time and temperature for perfect results. $599 from Harvey Norman. Cricut mug press They’ll be able to create a design, attach it to a mug, and let this mug-nificent press do the rest. $268 from Officeworks.  Apple AirPods Pro (2nd Gen) Now with multiple ear tips and up to six hours of listening time. $399 from The Good Guys.  Frank Green reusable party cups These four cups are splash-proof and reusable, perfect for parties, picnics, home or travel. $64.95 from David Jones.  Philips sneaker cleaner For the sneaker lover. Simply wet the brush, apply it to the sneakers and they will look fresh in no time. $49 from JB Hi-Fi.  Baileys Australian Rivermint Chocolate Liqueur Tasty mint and chocolate flavours blended with velvety Irish cream liqueur. Pour over ice or enjoy in a cocktail. $34 from Liquorland.  Digital LED photo frame with remote It’s a good pick for enjoying the constant stream of fun snapshots and artsy pics alike. $99 from The Good Guys. Treat them to an unforgettable experience, whether it’s a getaway or once-in-a-lifetime thrills. Adrenaline rush Wow them with a magical sunrise hot air balloon flight or a beautiful vineyard wine tasting. From $25 from Redballoon. Endless bingeing Give them great non-stop entertainment with a Binge, Kayo Sports or Netflix gift card. From $20 from Prezzee. Weekend getaway Unlocks access to unique homes and experiences – the perfect gift for travel-hungry friends and colleagues. From $25 from Airbnb. Pamper time Revitalise their mind, body and skin through massage and facials, spa packages and more. From $25 from Endota Spa. Relax and meditate Give the gift of meditation with a 12-month membership to Soul Alive, featuring live-streamed meditation classes and more. $199 from Soul Alive. Short escape Whether they’ve been dreaming of an adrenaline-filled ski trip or a relaxing river cruise, this gift could take them anywhere in the world. Valid for three years and available up to $2000 from Flight Centre. Artisan experience Encourage them to make a mosaic lamp, create dumplings or dabble in pottery. There are 7000+ unique classes to explore. From $5 from ClassBento. Shopping spree Spend up to $200 on a Westfield physical or digital gift card, and let them enjoy some retail therapy both within and outside Westfield centres. Big screen fun A pass to the biggest blockbusters, including Avatar: The Way of Water. Can be redeemed for movie tickets and more. From $20 from Hoyts. Wild time An annual Zoos Victoria membership provides unlimited entry to Melbourne Zoo, Werribee Open Range Zoo, Healesville Sanctuary and Kyabram Fauna Park – all while helping the zoo to save precious native wildlife from extinction. $126 from Zoos Victoria. You can’t go past a present that costs less than $25. Fruity Blooms mini tin Includes three unique flowering teas – blueberries, tropical pineapple and vibrant grapefruit. $16 from T2, t2tea.com  Openook wine decanter This piece is perfect for airing their favourite wine and improving its flavour. $19 from Big W, bigw.com.au  Sound Republik bluetooth cylinder speaker This compact speaker can play audio from any device that it is paired with. $10 from The Reject Shop, rejectshop.com.au  Marquee Adventurer camp chair Easy and portable, it’s ideal for outdoor adventures, picnics, barbecues and events. $11.98 from Bunnings, bunnings.com.au  Natio hydrating trio hand cream gift set For the hand cream connoisseur, this travel-sized trio of nourishing and aromatic plant-based treats will be sure to delight. $19.95 from David Jones, davidjones.com  It’s Always Spritz O’Clock Somewhere Get their spritz on with this companion guide featuring classic cocktail recipes from around the world. $19.99 from Dymocks, dymocks.com.au  Verao beach soccer ball Its durable, waterproof neoprene skin allows for action on the sand and in the surf. $17.99 from Rebel, rebelsport.com.au Two-person picnic set Perfect for dining on an outdoor trip. Includes cutlery, napkins, bottle opener, chopping board and more. $17 from Kmart, kmart.com.au  Stanley Junior ATV timber kit Contains all the materials kids need to make their own all terrain vehicle and customise it. $21 from Spotlight. From gourmet food to wine, spoil them with a delightful and delicious gift pack. Mumm twin flute pack This beautifully presented limited gift box contains one bottle of non-vintage brut and two elegant, branded flutes. $60 from Liquorland. GABS 2022 variety pack A must-have for all beer enthusiasts. Features eight carefully curated craft beers that simply can’t be found anywhere else. $49 from Dan Murphy’s. Maggie Beer’s Christmas treats hamper Includes non-alcoholic sparkling ruby cabernet, seville marmalade, fig and fennel paste, Christmas pudding and more. $249.95 from David Jones.  Riddoch pastoralist cab sauv and shiraz hamper Features cabernet sauvignon, shiraz, shortbread, Byron Bay cookies, Lindt dark chocolate and more. $100 from Dan Murphy’s. Veuve Clicquot Yellow Label brut fridge X SMEG This retro 1950s-style mini fridge gift box keeps their favourite bottle of champagne chilled for up to two hours. $85 from Liquorland.  Christmas gift box hamper Filled with delicious treats including tea, jam, chocolate filled wafer rolls, caramelised nuts and more. $20 from Target.  Maker’s Mark bourbon gift pack Features a bottle of Maker’s Mark Kentucky straight bourbon plus two limited-edition glasses. Perfect for the whisky aficionado. $65 from BWS. Chapel Hill vinedresser shiraz indulgence pack Includes shiraz, parmesan and herbs flavoured rice crackers, Lindt dark chocolate, honeycomb cubes and more. $50 from Dan Murphy’s.  Snap up these last-minute gifts online or in store on Christmas Day. Krispy Kreme Krispymas doughnuts Give the gift of doughnuts and share a box of these four delicious treats. $13 from 7-Eleven.  Coles gift card How can you go wrong by giving the freedom of choice? The perfect gift for everyone. $100 from Coles Express. Monthly or bimonthly book subscription Experts select books your loved one will enjoy based on questionnaire answers. One book per month at $94.95 for three months. Cadbury Favourites The classic crowd pleaser that is perfect for sharing at all casual social occasions. $10 from Coles Express. Pokemon trading cards An ideal festive present for all collectors and fans. $6 from Coles Express.  Amazon gift card It gives your recipient a choice of millions of items – from electronics to fashion to household items. $50 from 7-Eleven. Elf on a Shelf Let the kids have fun searching and finding the elf in the morning. $7 from Coles Express. Instant digital gift Is your pressie delayed? Send them a “virtual gift” ahead of it arriving in the mail via video. Shop with brands such as Witchery and MyHouse. From $5 from Gift Flick.  Whether you’re looking for a teacher gift, or wanting to splurge on a friend or colleague, we all know they deserve something great.  According to Scentre Group’s Jacqui Waine, homewares, beauty and baked goods are trending. “Our iQ research tells us 60 per cent of 18-39-year-olds are most excited to create festive atmospheres for friends and family, and two-thirds are looking forward to gift exchanges with loved ones,” she says.  “We’re seeing colourful cocktail glasses, placemats and resin vases making perfect gifts for tablescape enthusiasts preparing for Christmas soirees and backyard barbecues.  “Customers are choosing skincare, books and home decor options tailored to their co-workers’ unique interests. Hampers, gingerbread or chocolates are a great budget-friendly option.” Jim Berndelis, Officeworks’ general manager of merchandise, says creative pursuits and DIY trends are quickly gaining popularity, causing the retailer to double its craft range.  “Technology and crafting continue to be the most popular categories among our customers for Christmas gifting, with particular rises in smart home, gaming and audio for tech, or the multi-piece paint, clay and marker sets for craft,” he says.  Charlotte Tiplady, 24, is adding personalised items to her gift list. “I love showing people in my life that I’m thinking about them, and the best way to do that is by giving something from the heart, like printed photos or engraved pieces,” she says.  “They’re gifts that show people you care and can be great for sharing memories.” Four Pillars bloody shiraz gin Packs a punch and is ideal in a range of summer cocktails. $88 from Liquorland. Netflix bingeworthy board game Obsessed with Sex Education and Emily in Paris? Create the next Netflix Original hit show with this board game. $29.99 from Myer. Cricut Joy Cuts, draws and writes with precision on over 50 different surfaces. Connect wirelessly via laptop and access templates, fonts and shapes. $288 from Officeworks. Ray-Ban sunglasses These hexagonal sunnies are perfect for summer outings. $208 from The Iconic. KIC gift card Includes access to more than 1000 workouts and meditations, as well as delicious recipes. $49.99 for three months. keepitcleaner.com Merindah-Gunya 1000pc puzzle By artist Bayley Mifsud, this puzzle includes a reusable canvas pouch and artwork poster. $65 from The Positive Piece. Nespresso Vertuo Next coffee machine Not only brews delicious coffee, but offers five cup sizes and 28 blend choices. $299 from Harvey Norman. Glow & Peace Vitamin C skincare gift This pampering, vegan pick-me-up makes a great stocking filler or Secret Santa surprise. Includes face polish, skin glow serum and rose quartz facial roller. $80 from The Body Shop. Wise Words from Change Makers From writers, thinkers, activists and leaders, each of these quotes demonstrates the power of words and positive thinking in our everyday lives. $15.25 from Booktopia. Tim Tam candle Back by popular demand, this candle will transform their home into a rich and decadent chocolate oasis. $39 from Tim Tam. Cultural membership Cultural membership at State Library Victoria is perfect for those who wish to give an experience rather than stuff, plus it opens doors to a range of fabulous and exclusive events. $119 from State Library Victoria. Cygnett ChargeUp Reserve 2nd Gen 20k power bank This will take their phone from zero to 50 per cent battery in just 30 minutes. $95.95 from JB Hi-Fi, jbhifi.com.au Otto wellness pot with plant Add some colour to a loved one’s workspace and enhance their style this Christmas. $14.95 from Officeworks. Champagne coupe glasses 4pk Timeless, elegant, nice to look at and perfect to use for a traditional outdoor table setting. $20 from Ikea. GIFTA digital gift card They can swap it for more than 1000 brands, including Woolworths, Harvey Norman, Uber Eats, Amazon and more. From $5 from Gifta. Christmas cookies Treat them with Subway’s Christmas cookie box containing six cookies, from chocolate chip to raspberry cheesecake. $6 RRP from Subway. Bundaberg rum ball liqueur Can be enjoyed neat over ice, or served over a dollop of ice cream with a sprinkled rum ball on top for a delightful decadent dessert. $53.99 from Dan Murphy’s. Beats Studio3 wireless over-ear headphones Actively blocks external noise and uses real-time audio calibration to preserve clarity, range and emotion. $447 from Officeworks. Carry-on pro luggage Includes a detachable sleeve for laptop and an ejectable battery with USB and USB-C docks that can charge their phone. $425 from July. Gotcha4Life Christmas keep cards Each card represents a donation that powers Gotcha4Life’s mental fitness projects and programs. From $15 from Gotcha4Life. Bestway lemon scented pool float Treat them to some mouth-watering citrus fragrance with this scentsational pool float. $24.99 from Catch. AI chatbots are becoming very common in Aussie workplaces. But they can’t replace everyone. Here, experts explain why. Former F1 world champ Damon Hill reveals the one race in South Australia involving Michael Schumacher that he’s never forgotten. Our Apps