Waldorf Astoria is a name synonymous with refined luxury and high-end service. Ever since the iconic brand opened in New York City over a century ago, Waldorf Astoria has set the standard for grandeur, attracting discerning travelers (including many Hilton Honors members) worldwide. From vibrant urban retreats to serene coastal escapes to captivating cultural destinations, Waldorf Astoria properties offer a distinctive fusion of flawless service, awe-inspiring architecture, exquisite dining and outstanding amenities. But which Waldorf Astoria outposts are truly the best? Here, TPG shares a list of the world's finest Waldorf Astoria hotels and resorts. Opened in January 2024, the idyllic Waldorf Astoria Seychelles Platte Island is one of those points redemption opportunities that Hilton loyalists dream about. With just 50 accommodations — ranging from king deluxe rooms to five-bedroom villas — this brand-new property combines privacy and serenity with comfort and convenience in one of the world's most aspirational beach destinations. Guests can settle into tasteful, ocean-inspired rooms and villas with handcrafted wood furnishings, sumptuous curtain-framed king-size beds, Aesop bath amenities, deep soaking tubs and — perhaps the cherry on top — sprawling outdoor spaces, some of which include private pools. Despite being on a small island, the dining options are surprisingly varied at this Waldorf Astoria, which is home to six restaurants and bars. La Perle is a Mediterranean brasserie where guests can enjoy anything from light pastries with fresh fruit for breakfast to the likes of calamari, seared tuna or seafood linguine for dinner. Another notable dinner option on the property is Maison des Epices, which puts delicious African-Creole cuisine center stage. Moulin serves both lunch and dinner and offers up an elevated "soil-to-soul" multicourse dinner experience highlighting local ingredients that the executive chef sources from the island's very own gardens. Of course, there are several spots around the property to unwind with a drink in hand, like Lalin, the rooftop cocktail bar that overlooks the docks and water. As expected, service here is top-tier, and all guests are assigned a personal concierge upon check-in. The property's extensive amenities include everything from an expansive relaxation spa and an open-air yoga studio to a lively activity center (think guided snorkel tours and ocean safaris) to a conservation-focused nature center located at the hotel. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Seychelles Platte Island start at $1,822 or 130,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Nestled amid the awe-inspiring landscape of Los Cabos, Mexico, the Waldorf Astoria Los Cabos Pedregal emerges as a shining star within the esteemed Waldorf Astoria collection. The setting is a testament to nature's grandeur, with the surrounding mountains and the Pacific Ocean creating an enchanting backdrop. Guests can luxuriate in the privacy of their own plunge pools or revel in the warm glow of a fire pit while gazing at the star-studded sky. Each of the 115 rooms and suites measures at least 856 square feet, giving guests plenty of space for lounging. The resort's amenities further elevate the experience, including a private tunnel entrance, an exclusive beach and cascading infinity pools that seem to merge with the horizon. Additionally, guests will find a spa with treatments that fuse ancient Mexican traditions and modern luxuries. Culinary delights await guests, too. On top of the complimentary in-room guacamole and Mexican beer offered daily, guests have access to multiple restaurants serving mouthwatering fare, including the cliffside El Farallon, which features ocean-to-table dishes on its menu. If you love wine, be sure to visit Don Manuel's, the Mexican-focused signature restaurant with a cellar that houses the second-largest collection of wine in Mexico. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Los Cabos Pedregal start at $911 or 120,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: 14 of TPG's favorite points hotels on the beach in Mexico Regarded as one of the finest Waldorf Astoria properties worldwide, the Waldorf Astoria Maldives Ithaafushi stands out for its unparalleled luxury and breathtaking surroundings. In the heart of the Maldives, this 119-villa resort offers guests tranquility amid pristine turquoise waters and white-sand beaches. The lavish overwater and beachfront villas provide opulent accommodations with private pools, direct ocean access and exquisite furnishings. Expect setting-appropriate details like thatched roofs, overwater hammocks, outdoor showers and floor-to-ceiling windows and sliders that maximize the breathtaking views. In addition to the villas, guests can take advantage of world-class amenities, including a spa with a private pool and outdoor treatment rooms, a state-of-the-art fitness center and a dedicated concierge service. Families will love having access to two kids clubs — one for younger children and another for teens — plus water sports equipment like Jet Skis, kayaks, paddleboards and catamarans. As for dining, visitors will have their pick of 11 food and beverage outlets, including Terra, an upscale venue where you dine in a private bamboo pod, and The Rock, an intimate cavelike space for dinners and wine from the on-site cellar. Cuisine options range from Levantine to Chinese to Australian. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Maldives Ithaafushi start at $1,897 or 150,000 Hilton Honors points per night. The Waldorf Astoria Cancun is undoubtedly one of the finest Waldorf Astorias in the world. From the moment you step into the opulent lobby, you are enveloped in an atmosphere of luxury and sophistication. Overlooking a prime stretch of sand in Cancun, guests can access pristine white sands and turquoise waters at their doorstep. The 173 rooms and suites celebrate this proximity to the beach, offering breathtaking ocean views from balconies or patios with private plunge pools. Inside, the elegant decor (think: blue-and-white accent walls, marble floors and light wood cabinetry) complements the setting. Outside the rooms, you'll find an array of world-class amenities, including two stunning infinity pools, a serene spa inspired by Mayan culture and family activities like treasure hunts. When it comes to dining, the hotel leaves no stone unturned. Guests enjoy options like the open-flame grill at Malpeque, outdoor Mexican cantina cooking at Ja'o and the Oyster Bar at Peacock Alley, which draws inspiration from the original Waldorf Astoria hotel in New York City. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Cancun start at $486 or 105,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: A luxurious oasis with impeccable service and style: My stay at the new Waldorf Astoria Cancun Amid the enchantment of Walt Disney World Resort lies the Waldorf Astoria Orlando, a high-end oasis with unparalleled experiences for kids and adults. Having just undergone an extensive renovation and reopened in December 2023, the property wowed TPG with its reimagined lobby and Parker-Torres-led redesign of all guest accommodations. Inviting decor in calming, neutral greens and sunset tones comes standard in the 502 rooms and 171 suites. All accommodations overlook the property's golf course and the surrounding Bonnet Creek nature preserve, while some also have direct views of Disney's nightly fireworks display. Guest facilities and amenities are top-notch as well. To start, there's the aforementioned golf course, which has 18 championship-worthy holes designed by acclaimed architect Rees Jones (also completely redesigned following the recent renovations). Additionally, visitors can unwind in the rejuvenating spa, cool off in two pools, take advantage of the kids club and break a sweat in the 24-hour fitness center. If you have plans to visit the Disney parks, you'll particularly love the Disney-focused perks available to resort guests. You'll enjoy early entry to any of the parks every day of your stay, plus complimentary shuttle service to and from the parks and Disney Springs. Once you've worked up an appetite (whether at the parks or while enjoying the on-site amenities), sit for a meal at one of five dining establishments. The renowned Bull & Bear restaurant is the place to go for delectable steakhouse fare, while Oscar's Brasserie draws early risers seeking lots of options for breakfast. For even more venues, head next door to the resort's sister property: Signia by Hilton Orlando Bonnet Creek. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Orlando start at $315 or 90,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: The best Disney World hotels for your next magical stay The Waldorf Astoria Amsterdam is a magnificent hotel along Amsterdam's picturesque Herengracht canal near the city's art-filled Museum Quarter. Contained within six beautifully restored 17th- and 18th-century canal houses, this historic property offers a unique experience. All of the 93 rooms and suites are light and airy, featuring soaring ceilings, neutral decor and spacious bathrooms with freestanding tubs and walk-in showers. Depending on which room you choose, you may also find original details like a decorative fireplace or wooden beams. The charming hotel houses a few noteworthy facilities as well. Guests can visit the luxurious Guerlain Spa for a treatment, a workout, pool access and more. Additionally, there are two drinking establishments — the Vault Bar and Peacock Alley — for those who wish to imbibe. Even the pickiest eaters will find little to disapprove of at Spectrum, the on-site restaurant. Awarded two Michelin stars, the restaurant serves modern, elegantly plated dishes that showcase local products. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Amsterdam start at $573 or 120,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: How to spend 1 day in Amsterdam Grand Wailea Maui, a Waldorf Astoria Resort, has everything you'd want in a Hawaiian vacation. You can have brunch with breathtaking views at Ikena, discover special pop-up events at Botero Lounge or enjoy local seafood at Humuhumu, among other exceptional dining options. There's even a food truck with quick-service staples like tacos, salads and pizzas, should you crave a casual (but tasty) plate of food outside. To take full advantage of Hawaii's pleasant temperatures, plan on spending the bulk of your time at nearby Wailea Beach and the resort's pools. The adults-only Hibiscus Pool is perfect for quiet relaxation, while the Wailea Canyon complex offers fun for the whole family via interconnected pools, slides, a rope swing and a swim-up grotto bar. When you need some respite from the sun, the 776 rooms, suites and villas do not disappoint. Standard accommodations start at 640 square feet and have private lanais that overlook the property's gardens or the ocean. Reserve an upgraded Napua room or suite for additional space, plus access to a lounge with concierge services and daily breakfast, snacks and cocktails. No visit would be complete without immersing yourself in the island's heritage. Take a cultural tour with the property's Hawaiian cultural ambassador, make a bracelet with pipipi (small snail shells) or kukui nuts, learn how to hula or attend a traditional luau. Rates at Grand Wailea Maui, A Waldorf Astoria Resort start at $803 or 110,000 Hilton Honors points per night. This 160-room property is the ultimate year-round retreat. As the only luxury hotel with slope-side access to Park City Mountain, the largest ski resort in the U.S., adventure awaits just steps from your door. Start your day by riding the Frostwood Gondola and experiencing exhilarating mountain thrills like skiing in the winter or mountain biking in the summer. Afterward, cozy up by the fireplace in your elegant, comfortable accommodation — some of which have up to four bedrooms — or cool off by taking a dip in the breathtaking pool with mountain views. If you're in need of some pampering to soothe sore muscles after an active day outdoors, you're in luck, as the hotel houses a spa with all kinds of services. Choose the Active Recovery Massage, which targets the main muscle groups, or opt for the Compression Boot Therapy treatment, which is designed to help speed up recovery time due to overexertion. While on-site dining options are limited to room service and one sit-down restaurant, Powder, guests will find plenty to please their palates. Powder's menu features elevated mountain comfort food, meaning you can expect everything from French onion soup to a burger with two patties to a lamb rack with a coffee cherry demi-glace. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Park City start at $422 or 110,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: The best Hilton hotels in the U.S., from luxury to budget stays The Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills is a gem in the heart of one of the world's most glamorous cities. Step inside, and you'll find yourself surrounded by contemporary elegance and luxurious amenities. Conceived by interior design legend Pierre-Yves Rochon, the 170 exquisite rooms and suites were each thoughtfully designed to provide the utmost comfort. Within the oversized accommodations, guests will find state-of-the-art technology, bathrooms with separate showers and tubs, espresso machines and private terraces (many with stunning city views), among other features. Plus, guests can savor some of the city's best food right at the hotel. Espelette Beverly Hills, the main restaurant, dishes up farm-to-table fare with Mediterranean flavors. For a more casual experience, there's The Rooftop by JG, where an array of small plates and entrees concocted by famed chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten are served alongside light, refreshing cocktails and stunning panoramic views. Given its location in Beverly Hills, it should come as no surprise that this Waldorf Astoria also offers top-notch wellness facilities. As such, you should save time for pampering yourself at La Prairie Spa, where rejuvenating treatments and personalized wellness programs are available — when you're not busy taking in the jaw-dropping city vistas from the rooftop pool, that is. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills start at $828 or 120,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Rome Cavalieri is an exquisite haven of luxury perched atop Italy's Monte Mario. Nestled within 15 private acres of parkland, this Waldorf Astoria outpost is just as stunning to admire as its panoramic vistas of Rome's iconic skyline. The opulent interior design, adorned with elegant artwork and intricate furnishings, reflects the hotel's commitment to timeless beauty. Measuring at least 538 square feet, the 345 spacious rooms and suites feature traditional details like window drapes, crown molding and fabric headboards that match couches in the seating areas. Additionally, you'll find a few modern touches, such as high-definition TVs and complimentary Wi-Fi. As for amenities outside your room, you'll have plenty to keep you occupied. You can relax by the indoor and outdoor pools, play tennis on the two red-clay courts and visit the Cavalieri Grand Spa Club for a massage, facial, hair treatment or other service. Food and beverage options are abundant as well. There are three eateries to choose from, including La Pergola, Rome's only restaurant with three Michelin stars. Plus, guests have access to two bars and a wine cellar with an impressive selection of Italian vintages. Rates at Rome Cavalieri, A Waldorf Astoria Hotel start at $455 or 80,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Head to the Waldorf Astoria Dubai Palm Jumeirah for upscale digs on the beautiful shores of Palm Jumeirah in the United Arab Emirates. All 319 rooms and suites here are spacious and elegant, offering stunning views of the Persian Gulf or Dubai's famous palm tree-shaped island. Regardless of which space you choose, you'll discover neutral colors with pops of pale blue that mimic the hue of the gorgeous water just outside. For an extra dose of luxury, reserve a Pearl Club room or suite. These accommodations grant access to the property's Pearl Club, an exclusive lounge with complimentary all-day dining. Guests without Pearl Club access need not fret when their stomachs start to grumble: They can choose from six on-site dining options, including Social (an upscale Italian venue) and Palm Avenue (a casual poolside eatery). If you're particularly fond of buffets, be sure to dine at Mezzerie, where international dishes are served buffet-style throughout the day. Should you seek some relaxation during your stay, you'll be pleased with the resort's various wellness facilities. The spa offers a tranquil setting ideal for unwinding, whether you're lounging in an herbal steam room or enjoying a massage or facial in one of 12 treatment rooms. Additionally, you can take a dip in two outdoor pools and stretch out on a private beach. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Dubai Palm Jumeirah start at $150 or 45,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: How to get to (and stay in) Dubai using points and miles Although the 171-room Waldorf Astoria Bangkok sits in a bustling city, it's an oasis of tranquility and luxury. With renowned Lumphini Park just a few streets away and iconic attractions like Wat Phra Kaew, Wat Arun and the vibrant Chatuchak Weekend Market within a convenient 25-minute drive, the hotel is in a prime location. During their stays, guests can relax at the spa, sip a glass of bubbly at the chic Champagne Bar or unwind by the Instagram-worthy rooftop pool. A dedicated personal concierge can also assist with customized excursions and cater to special requests should you have a particular activity or experience in mind. As for food, there are four venues available on-site. Bull & Bear serves up mouthwatering steaks and jaw-dropping city views. The Front Room is the spot to visit for authentic Thai cuisine. Peacock Alley draws guests seeking lighter bites and afternoon tea. Lastly, there's the aptly named Brasserie, where casual French fare is on the menu. Be sure to grab a chair at The Loft for a classic top-shelf cocktail at the end of the night. When you're ready to retire, you can rest easy knowing you'll get plenty of shut-eye. Every room is designed with relaxation in mind, featuring a neutral color scheme and large floor-to-ceiling windows with blackout curtains to let in lots of light during the day but block it out when you're catching some z's. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Bangkok start at $270 or 70,000 Hilton Honors points per night. This exclusive urban retreat within the Burj Daman is located mere minutes away from iconic attractions like the Burj Khalifa, the Dubai Mall and the Museum of the Future. But what makes this Waldorf Astoria stand out from the rest is its well-rounded approach to hospitality. Prepare to be wowed by the exceptional service, plus the range of award-winning restaurants and bars housed inside. Bull & Bear (the signature steakhouse) and St. Trop (a French Riviera-inspired rooftop lounge), in particular, are bound to delight, as they offer both mouthwatering dishes and jaw-dropping views of the city skyline. The hotel's leisure facilities are just as impressive as its dining venues. Guests can go for a swim in the rooftop pool, break a sweat in the fully equipped fitness center or unwind at the state-of-the-art Waldorf Astoria Spa. The spa is especially memorable, as it houses four themed suites for everything from couples massages to body treatments on a heated marble bed. Much like the rest of the property, the 275 rooms and suites are stylish yet approachable. Each space exudes an apartment-style charm, with elegant brass and walnut finishes, a lavish marble bathroom and awe-inspiring city views from floor-to-ceiling windows. Splurge on a Residential Suite for additional amenities, such as a furnished balcony and a full-size kitchen. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Dubai International Financial Centre start at $184 or 65,000 Hilton Honors points per night. The Waldorf Astoria Jerusalem is a high-end home away from home with a prestigious and convenient location that few properties can rival. Walk just 10 minutes east and you'll reach Jaffa Gate, the main entry to Jerusalem's Old City. Walk a few minutes farther and you'll discover some of the Old City's most iconic sites, including the Western Wall and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. While you may be tempted to spend the bulk of your time off-site checking out Jerusalem's famous attractions, don't overlook the hotel itself. Its design, crafted by esteemed Turkish architect Sinan Kafadar, is truly eye-catching thanks to a naturally lit atrium and original building details from the 1920s. Inside, the 226 accommodations complement the opulent feel throughout. Signature Waldorf Astoria beds dressed with luxury linens sit beneath tray ceilings with crystal chandeliers. In the bathrooms, you'll find luxurious touches like heated marble floors, in-mirror TVs and separate showers and tubs. After a restful night's sleep, start your day with a delectable Israeli breakfast at The Palace, then return later for more regional culinary delights like tahini, grilled sea bream and yufka (Turkish flatbread) with ground beef. Or, for a change of scenery, venture to the fourth floor's seasonal Terrace venue for Mediterranean-inspired bites and cocktails. Remember to save time for the on-site spa, too. At this nearly 5,000-square-foot facility, guests can enjoy various treatments featuring skincare products by Parisian brand Guerlain, plus two Turkish hammams, an indoor pool and two dry saunas, among other amenities. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Jerusalem start at $547 or 95,000 Hilton Honors points per night. With a prime location just across the river from the Oriental Pearl Radio & Television Tower and only a 12-minute walk away from the famous Yu Garden, the 260-room Waldorf Astoria Shanghai on the Bund appeals to luxury-seeking sightseers. The plush rooms, adorned with marble bathrooms, provide guests with stunning city or river views. Not to mention, they have everything visitors could need while in Shanghai, including free Wi-Fi, flat-screen TVs, minibars and coffee makers. Standard rooms are impressive at 484 to 538 square feet, but for a truly opulent experience, choose one of the suites. Each comes outfitted with separate living and dining rooms, a study and a kitchen. Some even have Old World touches such as two-poster beds and clawfoot tubs. Outside the rooms, guests will find luxury hotel must-haves like a spa, a gym and an indoor pool, plus a Waldorf Astoria staple: Peacock Alley. Meals aren't limited to Peacock Alley, though. There are three additional restaurants, one serving European dishes and two specializing in contemporary Chinese cuisine. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Shanghai on the Bund start at $273 or 80,000 Hilton Honors points per night. While you'll find plenty of hotels on the Las Vegas Strip, few are as sophisticated as the Waldorf Astoria Las Vegas. Its 389 sleek rooms have flat-screen TVs, sitting areas and floor-to-ceiling windows with city views, plus luxe decor in soothing gray, cream and soft blue hues. Suites offer additional space for extras like kitchenettes and private fitness areas. Wellness is front and center here, so come expecting to find a reprieve from Las Vegas' hustle and bustle. You can pamper yourself at the lavish spa, take a refreshing dip in one of the three pools or rejuvenate your body and mind with yoga and Pilates classes at the fitness center. Once you find yourself in need of some sustenance, head to Zen Kitchen for seasonal American fare or sit for afternoon tea at the Tea Lounge. For a nightcap and sweeping city vistas, check out the sky-high Hotel Bar on the 23rd floor. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Las Vegas start at $307 or 71,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related: 17 best hotels in Vegas with suites that are worth it You'll experience the epitome of elegance at the Waldorf Astoria Washington DC. Housed within the beautifully restored Old Post Office building in the heart of Washington, D.C., this high-end property takes luxury up a notch, especially in its 263 accommodations. The opulent Federal-style rooms feature high ceilings, marble bathrooms and crystal chandeliers, as well as rich wood furnishings and regal navy, white and beige color palettes. Suites have additional living space, with some also offering extra bedrooms and cozy fireplaces. Hotel amenities here are numerous. If you love history, be sure to partake in the property's complimentary tour of its clock tower. For a more wellness-focused stay, check out the spa, which has six treatment rooms and a Himalayan salt room. There's also a fitness center outfitted with all the latest equipment. As for dining, you can choose from the atrium's Peacock Alley, Michelin-starred Sushi Nakazawa and the newly opened Bazaar by José Andrés. Room service is available 24 hours a day as well, should you prefer more privacy when hunger strikes. Rates at the Waldorf Astoria Washington DC start at $525 or 110,000 Hilton Honors points per night. Related reading: The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.