Fabbaloo 
By Kerry Stevenson on January 10th, 2023 in Corporate, news  
Tags: anisoprint, china, growth, industrial, resellers   Anisoprint continues to grow through a series of challenges.  We had a chat with Anisoprint founder and CEO Fedor Antonov recently about the company’s latest moves and the industry in general.  Anisoprint is a Luxembourg-based manufacturer of one of the rarest items in 3D printing: a continuous carbon fiber 3D printer. Their technology can lay down lengths of carbon fiber, unlike the chopped carbon fiber found in many common filaments these days. This makes for the strongest possible 3D printed parts.  Anisoprint has been developing an industrial-sized version of their technology, which was first launched in desktop form some years ago. These machines are designed to run 24/7 in production environments.  Antonov told us the new industrial machine is no longer a prototype, but is now a beta machine. It seems as if they are nearing full production for this device.  The company announced this machine quite some time ago, but faced a series of challenges during the pandemic. For example, they found the lead time for CNC controller boards was an incredible 50 weeks, driven by chip shortages.  But building a machine is only one step: once built, the machines must be sold.  To that end, Anisoprint has been working to solidify their sales and distribution networks. For example, they have set up a new office in Shanghai, where the new APAC General Manager will transfer from Anisoprint’s previous local partner, and devote 100% of their time towards Anisoprint. This provides the company with significant expertise and familiarity with the region.  Even then there are still challenges: Antonov said that the continuous carbon fiber technology is different from typical 3D printers, and takes some learning to “get it”. He said:  “Resellers have to understand the technology, let alone the clients!” Another challenge facing the company is design: parts to be printed on this equipment obviously need to be DfAM (designed for additive manufacturing), but also for continuous carbon fiber optimization, and that’s quite new to many.  I know that many large companies have “design books” that assist new engineers to create parts in the expected form, but these will have to adapt to include the optimization for continuous carbon fiber.  Nevertheless, Anisoprint is set to ship the first machines shortly. An unnamed aerospace company purchased two units, and there are other sales lined up.  Those challenges can definitely be overcome, and that’s what Anisoprint is working through. I’m confident that they will be successful.  Via Anisoprint Share this post:  Kerry Stevenson, aka "General Fabb" has written over 8,000 stories on 3D printing at Fabbaloo since he launched the venture in 2007, with an intention to promote and grow the incredible technology of 3D printing across the world. So far, it seems to be working! You must be logged in to post a comment. Previous post Overcoming Outgassing and Weight Challenges with 3D Printing for Space Applications Next post An Immigrant’s Dream: Thomas Zacharia’s 35 Years at ORNL We are a participant in affiliate advertising programs designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to affiliated site. 
© Copyright Terran Data Corporation 2024  Autodesk is changing the rules about data storage for Fusion 360. Researchers at the University of Edinburgh have developed a method of 3D printing blood vessels. There have apparently been some layoffs at Formlabs. This week’s selection is the incredibly silly Black Betty, the Bambu-lamb by Makerworld contributor Halfway_Engineered. Once again we take a look at the valuations of the major 3D printing companies over the past week. After publishing “Alternatives to Thingiverse, 2024 Edition”, I wondered which printable 3D model repositories were most popular. This week’s selection is “Hit Makers: How to Succeed in an Age of Distraction” by Derek Thompson. The latest version of Ultimaker Cura has a secret, extremely powerful feature: Lightning infill. Terrible news from the UK today: Sanjay Mortimer, the founder of E3D-Online, has passed away. This week’s selection is the enormous Articulated Dragon by Cults contributor MCGYBEER and printed to scale by Metalhead Printing. I’ve been on a bit of a quest to find some truly safe 3D printer resin, and I’m not sure there’s actually such a product. Many Fabbaloo readers own their own 3D printer, while others contemplate buying one. But should you? No, there have been no announcements regarding a new “Prusa MK4” 3D printer. But what might be included in a MK4? There’s one filament that appears to have the highest-temperature resistance of them all: EXTEM AMHH811F. Where did the two 3D printer filament diameters come from and what is the difference? Which one is better? 