FALL RIVER — A cold drizzle fell on a handful of families as they gathered in the rain at Veterans Memorial Bicentennial Park for Gold Star Mothers and Families Day — what City Councilor Laura Jean Washington said reminded her of tears shed by families who’ve lost loved ones in the military. “The day they dedicated this memorial, it was pouring rain, so it seems only fitting that we’re here again in the rain," said Fall River Veterans Services Officer Michelle Hamilton, who hosted the event. Several Gold Star family members laid a wreath before a monument — a black engraved wall from which the life-size silhouette of a saluting soldier has been removed, symbolizing the hole left in the lives of those on the home front.  Missing from the ceremony, but supported by their grieving families, were men like Navy Fireman Charles A. Tavares, who died Feb. 27, 1969, in Vietnam; Marine Cpl. Paul Fagundes, who died July 4, 2010, in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; Marine Lance Cpl. John J. Van Gyzen IV, who was killed in Anbar Province, Iraq, on July 5, 2004; and Army Sgt. Kyle J. Harrington, who died Jan. 24, 2009, in Iraq. Van Gyzen’s stepmother Jane read from a poem she’d written after Van Gyzen’s death titled “Remember Me.” “Tonight, when you go home,” she said, “wrap that blanket of freedom around you and remember … the brave men and women that fought and died so that you can sleep free.” Honoring a WWI veteran: Fall River's Route 79 bridge was named for a man killed in action in WWI. Who was he? Joshua Harrington was a boy when his father, Kyle, died thousands of miles away in the Middle East. Kyle Harrington was 24, repairing Humvees and other light vehicles at Joint Base Balad as part of the Iraq War, and killed in an accident. He left behind his children Joshua, then 5, and Kaylee, then 2, and his wife, Faith, now a writer at The Standard-Times in New Bedford. "My father was a good man,” Harrington said.  Reading from a college essay he’d written about his father, titled “A Metaphysical Dilemma,” Harrington said he often wished he could experience life with his father — and found that it isn't an easy wish to have granted. “I’m surrounded by a strong support group of loving friends and family," Harrington said, adding that he enjoys the privileges of safety, comfort, stability and even material success as the owner of his own landscaping business.  “And yet I don’t have a dad,” he said. Southcoast Wonders: The Battleship joined the Navy 80 years ago. Why is it in Fall River? Huddled from the rain under an umbrella, Harrington told the crowd that he’s long strived to live up to his father’s image, and has imagined what his life would have been had his father lived. He said he might’ve spent his childhood on an Army base in Germany, traveling as a teen and becoming immersed in different cultures. “More importantly, I would have had my dad back, and the void left in my family after his death would be whole again,” Harrington said. “The more I envision it, the more I crave it. But to embrace that reality means to lose everything that I’ve come to love about this one.” Harrington said even if it meant giving up everything important about his life, “I would, without hesitation, throw it all away — everything I’ve ever accomplished and every relationship I’ve ever made — for just a glimpse at what my life would have been like with my dad around.” The story behind the name: You know the bridge. But how much do you know about Charles Braga and Pearl Harbor? As bugler Larry Beirola played a slow rendition of Taps, Gold Star family members released a quartet of doves into the blank, cold sky.  Harrington said after his speech that he was nervous about opening himself up emotionally to the crowd. But even as strangers across multiple generations, the people gathered by the waterfront were still family, related by a common bond of grief that can never fully heal. “I realized that there’s a lot of people who could benefit from hearing it," Harrington said. “At the end of the day, it wasn’t so much about what I had to say as much it was the people I was speaking to.” Dan Medeiros can be reached at dmedeiros@heraldnews.com. Support local journalism by purchasing a digital or print subscription to The Herald News today. This article originally appeared on The Herald News: Gold Star mothers, families speak at ceremony for fallen troops New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.