Listen to Story Amid a row over the Rs 45-crore renovation of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence during peak Covid, Delhi PWD Minister Atishi on Sunday said that Lt Governor VK Saxena's letter seeking records of the renovation is unconstitutional and undemocratic. She said L-G's letter to Delhi Chief Secretary was politically motivated and the allegations made in the letter were 'baseless' and "devoid of merit". The Aam Aadmi Party leader, in a letter, stated that the LG's communication is wholly outside the jurisdiction and authority of the office of his office and bypasses the concerned minister and the council of Ministers, who are democratically responsible for the business of the Delhi government.

Saw from media reports that the Hon’ble @LtGovDelhi sent a letter to the Chief Secretary on 27th April. Have written to him today abt how his letter is unconstitutional and a violation of the orders of the Constitutional Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. pic.twitter.com/HFhgZqY3yb
— Atishi (@AtishiAAP) April 30, 2023
 Saw from media reports that the Hon’ble @LtGovDelhi sent a letter to the Chief Secretary on 27th April. Have written to him today abt how his letter is unconstitutional and a violation of the orders of the Constitutional Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. pic.twitter.com/HFhgZqY3yb
— Atishi (@AtishiAAP) April 30, 2023 READ | Row over 'renovation' of Kejriwal's residence: Where did previous Delhi CMs stay? She has also noted that though the L-G is empowered to seek information about decisions taken by the council of ministers, the L-G has no power whatsoever to direct executive action of any kind.  "The Lieutenant Governor has not been entrusted with any independent decision-making power. He has to either act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers or he is bound to implement the decision taken by the President on a reference being made by him,” she said.  The minister has requested the LG to withdraw his communication and restore the scheme of governance intended by the Constitution for Delhi and its people.  The BJP has been attacking Arvind Kejriwal and AAP, claiming Rs 45 crore was spent on the renovation of the chief minister's residence 6, Flagstaff Road, during 2020-22. Earlier, L-G VK Saxena had ordered officials to secure the records of expenditure and sought a report on the matter within 15 days.Published By: Sahil SinhaPublished On: Apr 30, 2023--- ENDS --- 
