It’s no secret that the prevalence of body cams among law enforcement has led to some exciting and downright bizarre footage over the years, and Los Angeles is no exception. Body camera footage from the LAPD was recently released to the public, showing the moment a suspect leapt from a multi-story building in an attempt to evade the police. The incident took place on September 15th, after four men reportedly broke into a male victim’s apartment. Tying the victim up and placing a bag over his head, the bandits stole several items and noted their intent to rob other apartments. Security footage revealed that one suspect had a Smith & Wesson handgun, causing officers to be on high alert. While trying to flee from the police, one suspect, identified as Jeffrey Askew, jumped from a multi-story building and fetched what police believed was a gun. However, the item in question turned out to be a hammer— which is still a deadly weapon if used with criminal intent to cause harm. Askew was subdued with 9mm gunfire and a 40mm less-lethal round from a single-shot grenade launcher. The other three suspects -Aaron Flenoy, Justice Lockhart, and Daiyaan Henderson- were also arrested, with the latter attempting to escape while wearing a disguise. According to the LAPD, Askew was taken to the hospital, and all four individuals face a lengthy list of felony charges. Four suspects committed a home invasion in Los Angeles. They bound and gagged their victims.LAPD surrounded the property and two suspects were taken into custody without incident, a third suspect decided it would be a good idea to jump off of the property to escape lol. After… pic.twitter.com/ZYqIvUtkw3 ____________ © 2023 Bright Mountain Media, Inc. All rights reserved.  The content of this webpage may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written consent of Bright Mountain Media, Inc. which may be contacted at info@brightmountainmedia.com, ticker BMTM. 
If you have any problems viewing this article, please report it here.  

 
