After the dust has settled and the 2023 NFL Draft has wrapped up, Coach Josh McDaniels and the Las Vegas Raiders can turn their attention to prepping for the season. McDaniels is going into year two as head man of the Silver and Black, and he has a better understanding of his roster, including a quarterback with which he has more familiarity in Jimmy Garoppolo, which should be a bonus.  Garoppolo has had success in a system that features multiple running backs in the past, and could once again with the Raiders, as the team could increase Zamir White’s workload as he heads into his second year.  White was a fourth round pick in the 2022 NFL Draft out of Georgia and had only 17 carries for 70 yards in his rookie season, as the majority of carries were dominated by Josh Jacobs.  While the Raiders brought back Ameer Abdullah, White could see his workload increase behind Jacobs. White is a strong, physical runner who isn’t afraid of contact, and could be a change-of-pace back behind Jacobs. He ran for 2,043 yards and 25 touchdowns in his career with the Bulldogs. He is a strongly built running back at 6 feet and 215 pounds.  Zamir White will likely have more than 17 carries next season, and with his size, strength and elusiveness, could have himself a breakout sophomore season as he becomes more involved in the Raiders’ offense. Here is a complete list of every 2023 Raiders pick and links to more information about them: Round 1 No. 7 overall pick: Tyree Wilson, DE, Texas Tech Round 2 No. 35 overall pick: Michael Mayer, TE, Notre Dame Round 3 No. 70 overall: Byron Young, DT, Alabama Round 3 No. 100 overall: Tre Tucker, WR, Cincinnati Round 4 No. 104 overall: Jakorian Bennett, CB, Maryland Round 4 No. 135 overall: Aidan O'Connell, QB, Purdue Round 5 No. 170 overall: Christopher Smith II, S, Georgia Round 6 No. 203 overall: Amari Burney, LB, Florida Round 7 No. 231 overall: Nesta Jade Silvera, DT, Arizona State Please tell us your thoughts when you like our Facebook Page WHEN YOU CLICK RIGHT HERE. 