2022 was a huge year of transition for the Pittsburgh Steelers. The retirement of Ben Roethlisberger left a hole in the roster the size of Canton and it was up to then-rookie Kenny Pickett to try and be the guy to follow the guy. Pickett showed some promise but where does he rank among the rest of the starting quarterbacks in the NFL? Here are our rankings. Mahomes isn’t just the best quarterback in the NFL, he’s the best player at any position and by a fairly wide margin. Burrow has made the Bengals relevant and a true Super Bowl contender with his skills and poise. Easily the best quarterback in the NFC and maybe the toughest competitor in the NFL. Built like a linebacker and plays like one, he just needs to take the next step with his team. One of the more underrated guys among the top tier but the biggest arm in the NFL. Trevor Lawrence took a quantum leap in his development last season. An amazing athlete who is still more a runner than a thrower. New team, same Aaron Rodgers. One of the best clutch players in NFL history. Still finds a way to put up great numbers and lead his offense. Ascending talent who shows elite traits. As long as he can stay healthy, Prescott should return to being one of the top quarterbacks in the NFC. 2023 showed what Fields is capable of but he needs to find a way to turn those big plays into big wins. Smith’s resurgence last season was amazing and he showed some impressive accuracy and elite football IQ. The ultra-competitive Cousins remains among the best in the league. Watson was among the elite quarterbacks in the NFL but after a shortened 2022 season he needs to earn that confidence back. Once on the verge of being a bust, Jared Goff continues to find a way to be productive in an offense that fits him perfectly. Another guy a year away from being a bust, Jones showed newfound poise last season and maximized his athletic potential. After struggling to start his career, Pickett showed poise down the stretch and took command of the offense. Purdy stepped up huge last season as a seventh-round rookie and showed real swagger as a starter. Carr has been in a funk but is coming to an offense he can excel in if he has anything left. Jones is hoping to make a bounceback after a strange season where he struggled. A shell of his former self, Wilson is hoping to put last season behind him. We will find out this year if Garoppolo can really play or if his success was just an aberration. Depending on which version of Mayfield shows up, this ranking could be entirely too high or entirely too low. Stroud is already looking poised and in command of the Texans offense. Ridder had one big game last season but will be the man in 2023 and will need a run game to help him out. Incredible athlete who could be great if the Colts coaches can maximize his potential and minimize his shortcomings. The No. 1 overall pick has impressed at minicamp but he’s an absolute unknown against NFL competition. A total unknown at this point, Howell is going to get trial by fire this season. The Packers will find out if Love is the future very quickly. McCoy is a competent vet but I’m sure the Cardinals would rather have Kyler Murray. Story originally appeared on Steelers Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin.