
  Police stopped a motorcyclist for dangerously weaving through traffic on the A419.
 
  Officers released dashcam footage of the bike passing between two cars on the dual carriageway just after 4pm on Sunday.
 
  The car in the right lane overtakes the car in the left lane as the motorcyclist speeds ahead of both of them.
 
  In the distance, the motorcycle can be seen passing between another car in the left lane and an overtaking car in the right lane, then accelerating again.
 
  A Wiltshire Police spokesman said: "Pick a lane any lane. The rider was confused with what ‘filtering' is.
 
  "Undertaking is often a cause of motorcycle collisions.
 
  "The rider is being offered an education option regarding riding behaviour."
 
  In the comments, some Twitter users argued that the motorcyclist had done nothing wrong and that the overtaking cars should have returned to lane one.
 
  One user said: "It's a two lane road so if people would keep one lane clear, just for overtaking, this kind of thing would not happen."
 
  Another user said: "I wouldn't have weaved so much but I have passed like that."
 
  The police spokesman added: "Looks to me like the vehicles in lane two were overtaking.
 
  "You could just have some patience and wait to pass safely and legally. Just a thought.
 
  "Of all the offences presented to us here, we thought it better to deal with the more serious one than the drivers who don’t move over quick enough for your liking."
 
  A third Twitter user said: "[The motorcyclist is] doing a great job of picking a lane. Hence moving from one to another.
 
  "Now, if you actually done [sic] your job and educated the ones not moving to left when they overtaken..."
 
    Pick a lane any lane, the rider was confused with what ‘filtering is’ undertaking is often a cause of motorcycle collisions.
    The rider is being offered an education option regarding riding behaviour. pic.twitter.com/pL1UfCFHSM
 
  The police spokesman added: "Seems it’s you that needs the education on this subject."
 
  Rule 88 of the Highway Code suggests that this sort of motorcycle manoeuvring should not be done at the speeds seen in the dashcam clip.
 
  It said: "You should be aware of what is behind and to the sides before manoeuvring. 
 
  "When in traffic queues, look out for pedestrians crossing between vehicles and vehicles emerging from junctions or changing lanes.
 
  "Position yourself so that drivers in front can see you in their mirrors. 
 
  "When filtering in slow-moving traffic, take care and keep your speed low.
 
  "Remember: Observation, Signal, Manoeuvre."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.