 Loading The new owners of the property where baseball legend Derek Jeter’s Tampa home once stood have filed plans with the city for a new 30,000-square-foot house. The plans, which are being submitted Friday for demolition and construction, call for the new home on Bahama Circle to be built with six bedrooms, nine full baths and 11 half baths, a gym, and a swimming pool. The home will have 345 feet of waterfront along Hillsborough Bay. Tampa-based Ellison Construction is building the house and says work should begin next year. It will likely take three years to complete. An unnamed local family will move in when the work is done. Jeter bought the house on Davis Island in 2017 and sold it in 2021 for $22.5 million to a legal trust. While most people think of the home as belonging to the iconic New York Yankees shortstop, Tampa sports fans are more than likely to remember it as the place Tom Brady rented in 2020 when he came to play for the Tampa Buccaneers. Plans for the new house, which is being designed by the Landry Design Group, call for the addition of substantial new green space, with about one-third of the property converted into open, landscaped areas, according to Ellison. Along with the green space, the plans call for the property to include environmentally friendly features to “ensure the project is responsibly built” and to reduce stormwater runoff, energy and water consumption. The builder says it will also try to reuse building materials from the previous structure whenever possible. “The vision for the home is to create a balanced blend of European style and modern aesthetics, resulting in a home that is both inviting and ecologically innovative and comfortable for a family,” Ellison says. Davis Island is a neighborhood that sits just off downtown Tampa. It is a mix of old-style Tampa homes, apartments and businesses along with a small airport and Tampa General Hospital. Mixed in are several multimillion-dollar mansions sitting along the water. Ellison was founded in 2007 as EWI Construction and is behind some of the most visible projects in the city, among them Armature Works and Sparkman Wharf.   Louis Llovio is the deputy managing editor at the Business Observer. Before going to work at the Observer, the longtime business writer worked at the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Maryland Daily Record and for the Baltimore Sun Media Group. He lives in Tampa. Click here to Subscribe Click here to Login