Productivity seems to have increased despite everyone having a three-day weekend Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters An office manager has shared the surprising results of a four-day working week trial - including the sacrifice staff made to do it. Rebecca Noakes, 23, an office manager for IT company Dolphin said they decided to trial the idea so staff could "spend more time with their loved ones". It came after Rebecca campaigned for hybrid working - and the company director proposed a four-day week instead, for the office, she said. Since the experiment began in January 2023, there has been a 10% increase in productivity, and the business operates longer working hours, she said. Staff still earn the same salary, but they agreed to 20% fewer holiday days, to try out the new four day week. Rebecca said: "When it was COVID, we were working from home like everyone else. Coming back into the office stage seemed like a big change going from being at home all the time to now being in the office all the time. Originally, I was campaigning for hybrid working to the director, but he wasn't really keen on the idea because he likes people being in the office. "Then he went on holiday and he rang me to suggest "what about a four day working week?'. I thought, okay, that was better than what I was campaigning for, anyway. He said he had enjoyed spending the time away with his family and he wanted other people to have more time to spend events with their loved ones, stuff like that. "We were seeing the workforce by the workforce evolving in general around us, and as a technology company we like to be leading and up to date with things, so it just felt like the right choice to get across who we are as a company." So far feedback from their 11 staff members has been positive, she said. Rebecca said: "It's definitely been positive. Everyone definitely seems a lot happier. They look forward to the weekend more, because they have this extra day. "It means they just get more time to enjoy - the weekends aren't just about sorting out chores and house stuff anymore, they can have time to be with their families and any practical things. Rebecca has also benefited from the extra free time, which she has used to develop her business and plan ahead for her wedding at the end of the year. "I like making my own jewellery, but it was always hard before to find the time to pursue this hobby," she said. "Now because I've been given that extra day off it means I've been making it and selling online, and it's been nice to be able to explore that hobby more. I'm also getting married at the end of this year, and it's been useful to set time aside to plan for the wedding. "Before I was always so busy on the weekends doing things like the shopping and now it's a lot easier." However, the team has also had to navigate practical challenges in adjusting to their new timetables. Some team members were uncertain about the impact the change would have on holiday allowance. Rebecca said the key to preparing staff members for the change was maintaining clear communication throughout the process. "Communication has been really really important," she said. "I've had to say to people that we need to be a lot stricter on holidays now, which they've all been understanding about. "We held lots of talks, even if it felt like we were repeating ourselves. We just wanted to keep everyone in the loop. "I made presentations for our team to show how it would work, what the calendar would like, the possible issues we might have and the solutions we had come up with." Under the new arrangement the staff has been split into Teams A and B - with one having Mondays off and the other, Friday. This means the office can stay open every day of the week to offer IT services to their clients. Rebecca said they have altered working hours as a result of feedback from their technicians. "We actually open for longer now," she said. "We were nine to five before but now the office is open from half eight to half five, because the technicians were concerned about fitting all their work into those four days. "They were we willing to work for an extra hour a day so they could fully relax at the weekend. We've done everything we can to make sure everyone is happy with the new system." Since switching to a four-day week the company has increased its productivity rate in responding to jobs by 10%, according to their records. Rebecca said: "In the current quarter resolving IT issues and getting back to customers has actually gone up by 10% this year compared to last year. "So it's it's hard to say the long term effect but so far is their seems to be an increase in productivity, which is great." 