published author share on Levi’s has expanded its retail footprint in Asia by unveiling a new store in India, marking another milestone in the brand's strategy of diversifying its business across geographies, apparel categories and distribution channels. This comes as the brand notices the consumer behaviour shift in the ever-changing retail landscape, and Levi's hopes to priortise how it delivers its iconic products and an impactful brand experiences to its growing base of young, savvy consumers in India and across Asia. "With this year marking the 170th anniversary of Levi Strauss & Co., the Brigade Road store – our largest in Asia – aims to be a premium one-stop-shop  in one of the region's most vibrant cities. It will allow us to engage with Levi's fans who are looking to create a style statement and connect with one of the most well-loved apparel brands in the world,"  said Amisha Jain, managing director and SVP, South Asia, Middle East & Africa at Levi's. The launch of the store also aims to bring the brand closer to its goal of making its stores premium destinations around the world by delivering premium shopping experiences to its customers across the globe. With India being a priority growth market for Levi's, the brand looks to scale up its investments in Asia, "The opening of the Brigade Road store signifies our commitment towards offering quality and innovation in the latest fashion to consumers in both India and the wider Asia region," added Jain.   Situated in Bengaluru's Brigade Road, the new store features the brand's NextGen store format and retails some of its most signature products – from its iconic 501, which celebrates its 150th anniversary this year, to its classic Trucker jackets. Moreover, Levi's has collaborated with artists Sachin Bhatt, Osheen Siva, The Doodle Mafia and public art collective, The Aravani Project to create artworks that showcase the city from past, present, and future perspectives during the store's launch weekend. Delving into the city's evolution, the artworks blend vintage and futuristic elements to capture the local culture and subtleties of the city.  Don't miss: Levi's eyes new stores in East APAC, D2C a main growth priority MARKETING-INTERACTIVE has reached out to Levi’s for additional information.  The expansion plan came after the the brand's announcement last April of launching new stores and rolling out existing store refreshes as well as new in-store services throughout the East Asia Pacific (EAP) region. New stores were expected to launch last year in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Japan, Australia, and Thailand. This is part of the company's plans to accelerate sustainable business and commercial growth in the EAP region. Its stores and shop-in-shops will be refurnished into NextGen Indigo stores, and this will be done using digital tools to streamline the consumer journey, including installing LED portal entry archways and LED screens for marketing content. Levi Strauss & Co. managing director and senior vice president of EAP, Nuholt Huisamen (pictured below), told MARKETING-INTERACTIVE that in Thailand alone, close to 100 new retail stores will be introduced in the new NextGen Indigo format, eight of which opened on 1 April. This marks the pivot towards a 100% owned-and-operated business model in the country, added Huisamen.  Join Content 360 - Hong Kong: Stories For A New Era where over 150 content marketers come together to shape the future.  Content 360 - Hong Kong is a must-attend conference that focuses on cutting-edge content trends, innovative creation techniques, strategies to customise your content for the newest marketing channels, and more. Don't miss out on this opportunity to elevate your content marketing game in Hong Kong! Tickets are on sale now, register today. https://conferences.marketing-interactive.com/content360-hk/ Related articles: Levi’s names NewJeans as new global brand ambassadorsLevi’s appoints OMD China as media agencyVisa and Hong Yip join hands to expand property payment options with proptech Jollibee Foods Corporation set to expand globally with 600 new stores    share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.