Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 28 Nov, 2022, 15:30 GMT Share this article The glioblastoma multiforme market is expected to witness a significant positive shift owing to the positive outcomes of the several products during the developmental stage by key players such as Bayer, VBL Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, DNAtrix, Kintara Pharmaceuticals, Chimerix, Karyopharm, VBI Vaccines, Kazia Therapeutics, Aivita Biomedical, Medicenna Therapeutics, Immunomic Therapeutics, Istari Oncology, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Northwest Biotherapeutics, and others. LAS VEGAS, Nov. 28, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- DelveInsight's Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Insights report includes a comprehensive understanding of current treatment practices, glioblastoma multiforme emerging drugs, market share of individual therapies, and current and forecasted market size from 2019 to 2032, segmented into 7MM [the United States, the EU-4 (Italy, Spain, France, and Germany), the United Kingdom, and Japan]. Key Takeaways from the Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Report Discover which therapies are expected to grab the major glioblastoma multiforme market share @Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Report Glioblastoma Multiforme Overview Glioblastoma, also known as glioblastoma multiforme is a cancer that can develop in the brain or spinal cord. Glioblastoma develops from astrocytes, which are nerve cell-feeding cells. It can occur at any age, but it is more common in the elderly. It can make headaches, nausea, vomiting, and seizures worse. The causes of glioblastoma are unknown. Glioblastoma symptoms vary depending on tumor type, size, location, and growth rate. Headache, nausea or vomiting, confusion or deterioration in brain function, memory loss, personality changes or irritability, and difficulty balancing are all common glioblastoma symptoms. Computed tomography (CT or CAT scan) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are two diagnostic tools used for glioblastoma diagnosis. Glioblastoma treatments may slow cancer progression and alleviate symptoms. Glioblastoma Multiforme Epidemiology Segmentation DelveInsight estimates that there were approximately 32.5K incident cases of glioblastoma multiforme in the 7MM in 2021. Among the EU-4 countries, the incident population of GBM was found to be the maximum in Germany in 2021. The glioblastoma multiforme market report proffers epidemiological analysis for the study period 2019–2032 in the 7MM segmented into: Download the report to understand which factors are driving glioblastoma multiforme epidemiology trends @Glioblastoma Multiforme Epidemiological Insights Glioblastoma Multiforme Treatment Market  Glioblastoma multiforme is typically treated with a combination of surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, or stereotactic radiosurgery. Although rarely used alone, surgery is usually one of the most important aspects of glioblastoma treatment. Because glioblastomas grow so quickly, they are frequently difficult to remove completely. As a result, surgery is performed to achieve the best possible safe resection - removing as much of the tumor as possible while preserving brain function and sparing healthy tissues. Following surgery, residual cancer cells can be targeted with additional treatments such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Once the tumor's diagnosis or name is determined, radiation therapy and chemotherapy are usually administered. These are known as adjuvant glioblastoma treatments. Because this multispecialty approach can have several side effects, steroids are frequently used as an additional component of glioblastoma treatment to help alleviate the side effects of other therapies. Chemotherapy is a common type of glioblastoma treatment. Patients typically begin chemotherapy 2-4 weeks after surgery, at the same time as or shortly after radiation therapy. When a tumor cannot be surgically removed, chemotherapy is sometimes used as the primary glioblastoma treatment. Cytotoxic drugs include Carmustine (BCNU), Lomustine (CCNU), or Gleostine (Generic), Gliadel wafer (biodegradable discs infused with BCNU), Temozolomide (Temodar), Cisplatin, Carboplatin, Etoposide, and Irinotecan. To know more about glioblastoma treatment options, visit @Glioblastoma Treatment Drugs  Glioblastoma Multiforme Pipeline Therapies and Key Companies Learn more about the glioblastoma FDA-approved drugs @Drugs for Glioblastoma Treatment  Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Dynamics The dynamics of glioblastoma multiforme market is predicted to change in the coming years owing to the improvement in the research and development activities so that glioblastoma multiforme market will comprise of efficient glioblastoma treatment options. Moreover, the anticipated launch of emerging therapies during the forecast period is further expected to fuel the glioblastoma multiforme market growth. Furthermore, vaccine approaches are appealing as adjuvant therapy for solid tumors because they can generate long-term immune surveillance against cancer cells. MimiVax (SurVaxM), Immunomic Therapeutics (ITI-1000), and IMVAX (IGV-001) are among the companies developing therapeutic vaccines for glioblastoma multiforme. Forbye, the introduction of bevacizumab biosimilars has resulted in a decrease in the cost burden. Numerous failed clinical trials indicate that combination therapies are likely to be the most promising method of glioblastoma treatment, with an emphasis on drug design and pharmacokinetic properties. Furthermore, better prognostic markers would allow physicians to diagnose and treat GBM earlier, potentially preventing disease progression and thereby boosting the glioblastoma multiforme market growth. However, several factors are impeding the growth of the glioblastoma multiforme market. There is a lack of a reliable biomarker that can aid in the diagnosis, patient stratification, recurrence detection, and therapy response. As a result, biomarkers are required to overcome the disease's complexity and allow for minimally invasive detection and analysis. As the glioblastoma multiforme market lacks an effective strategy for curing GBM, the survival rate of patients diagnosed with GBM remains low. Even after using approved therapies, GBM patients have a low survival rate. Furthermore, gliomas' molecular and cellular complexity severely limits diagnosis and treatment. This is exacerbated by significant intertumoral and intratumoral heterogeneity, which has a negative impact on the ability to develop effective and reliable disease biomarkers. Hence these factors mentioned above may hinder the growth of the glioblastoma multiforme market. Report Metrics Details Study Period 2019–2032 Coverage 7MM [The United States, the EU-4 (Germany, France, Italy, and Spain), the United Kingdom, and Japan] Base Year 2021 Glioblastoma Multiforme Market CAGR 13.1 % Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Size in 2021 USD 799 million Key Glioblastoma Multiforme Companies Bayer, Chimerix, Aivita Biomedical, Denovo Biopharma, Northwest Biotherapeutics, VBL Therapeutics, Laminar Pharmaceuticals, MedImmune, DNAtrix, Immunomic Therapeutics, Imvax, MimiVax, CNS Pharmaceuticals, Epitopoietic Research Corporation (ERC), Istari Oncology, SonALAsense, Kintara Therapeutics, Bristol Myers Squibb, Medicenna Therapeutics, BioMimetix, Eisai and Merck Sharp & Dohme, Kazia Therapeutics, Oblato, Genenta Science, Enterome, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Karyopharm Therapeutics, Forma Therapeutics, VBI Vaccines, TME Pharma, Novocure Limited, Genentech, Daiichi Sankyo, Novartis, and others Key Pipeline Glioblastoma Multiforme Therapies Regorafenib, ONC201, AV-GBM-1, Enzastaurin (DB-102), DCVax-L, Ofranergene Obadenovec (VB-111), LAM561 (2-OHOA), MEDI4736 (durvalumab), Tasadenoturev (DNX-2401), ITI-1000 (pp65 DC Vaccine), IGV-001, SurVaxM, Berubicin, GLIOVAC (Sitoiganap), Lerapolturev + Pembrolizumab, SONALA-001 + Exablate 2.0 Device, VAL-083 (dianhydrogalactitol), Pomalidomide, MDNA55, BMX-001, Lenvatinib ± Pembrolizumab, Paxalisib (GDC-0084), OKN-007, Temferon, EO2401, INO-5401+ INO-9012+ LIBTAYO (cemiplimab), Selinexor (KPT-330), Olutasidenib (FT-2102), VBI-1901, NOX-A12/olaptesed pegol, and others Scope of the Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Report Discover more about glioblastoma drugs in development @Glioblastoma Clinical Trials Table of Contents 1 Key Insights 2 Report Introduction 3 Glioblastoma Multiforme Market Overview at a Glance 3.1 Market Share (%) Distribution of GBM in 2019 by Countries 3.2 Market Share (%) Distribution of GBM in 2032 by Countries 4 Epidemiology and Market Forecast Methodology 5 Executive Summary of Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) 6 Key Events 7 SWOT Analysis 8 Disease Background and Overview: Glioblastoma Multiforme 8.1 Introduction 8.2 Classification of Glioblastoma Multiforme 8.3 Glioblastoma Types 8.4 Symptoms 8.5 Pathophysiology 8.6 Inheritance of Glioblastoma Multiforme 8.7 Molecular Classification 8.8 Diagnosis of Glioblastoma Multiforme 9 Treatment 9.1 Surgery 9.2 Chemotherapy 9.3 Radiation 9.4 Others 9.5 Management of Symptoms with Medication 9.6 Treatment Algorithm 10 Guidelines and Recommendations from Different Organizations 11 Epidemiology and Patient Population 11.1 Key Findings 11.2 Total Incident Cases of GBM in the 7MM 11.3 Assumptions and Rationale 11.4 United States 11.4.1 Total Incident Cases of GBM in the United States 11.4.2 Gender-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the United States 11.4.3 Type-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the United States 11.4.4 Age-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the United States 11.4.5 Incident Cases based on Primary Site of GBM in the United States 11.4.6 Incident Cases based on Histologic Classification of GBM Tumor in the United States 11.5 EU-4 and UK 11.5.1 Total Incident Cases of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 11.5.2 Gender-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 11.5.3 Type-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 11.5.4 Age-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 11.5.5 Incident Cases Based on Primary Site of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 11.5.6 Incident Cases based on Histologic Classification of GBM Tumor in the EU-4 and the UK 11.6 Japan 11.6.1 Total Incident Cases of GBM in Japan 11.6.2 Gender-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in Japan 11.6.3 Type-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in Japan 11.6.4 Age-specific Incidence Cases of GBM in Japan 11.6.5 Incident Cases based on Primary Site of GBM in Japan 11.6.6 Incident Cases based on Histologic Classification of GBM in Japan 12 Patient Journey 13 Key Endpoints in Glioblastoma Multiforme 14 Marketed Products 14.1 Key Competitors 15 Emerging Drugs 15.1 Key Competitors 16 GBM: Seven Major Market Analysis 16.1 Key Findings 16.2 Market Outlook 16.3 Key Market Forecast Assumptions 16.4 Attribute Analysis 16.5 Total Market Size of GBM in the 7MM 16.6 United States Market Size 16.6.1 Total Market size of GBM in the United States 16.6.2 Market Size of GBM by Current and Emerging Therapies in the United States 16.7 EU-4 and UK Market Size 16.7.1 Total Market size of GBM in the EU-4 and the UK 16.7.2 Market Size of GBM by Current and Emerging Therapies in the EU-4 and the UK 16.8 Japan Market Size 16.8.1 Total Market size of GBM in Japan 16.8.2 Market Size of GBM by Current and Emerging Therapies in Japan 17 KOL Views 18 Unmet Needs 19 Market Access and Reimbursement 19.1 United States 19.2 Europe 19.3 Japan 20 Appendix 20.1 Bibliography 20.2 Report Methodology 21 DelveInsight Capabilities 22 Disclaimer 23 About DelveInsight Related Reports Glioblastoma Multiforme Epidemiology Forecast Glioblastoma Multiforme Epidemiology Forecast – 2032 report delivers an in-depth understanding of the disease, historical and forecasted glioblastoma multiforme epidemiology in the 7MM, i.e., the United States, EU-4 (Germany, Spain, Italy, and France), the United Kingdom, and Japan. Glioblastoma Multiforme Pipeline Glioblastoma Multiforme Pipeline Insight – 2022 report provides comprehensive insights about the pipeline landscape, pipeline drug profiles, including clinical and non-clinical stage products, and the key glioblastoma multiforme companies, including CNS Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Roche, Autotelic Therapeutics, among others. Recurrent Glioblastoma Market Recurrent Glioblastoma Market Insights, Epidemiology, and Market Forecast – 2032 report deliver an in-depth understanding of the disease, historical and forecasted epidemiology, as well as the market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key recurrent glioblastoma companies including Genenta Science, CNS Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Roche, among others. Recurrent Glioblastoma Pipeline Recurrent Glioblastoma Pipeline Insight – 2022 report provides comprehensive insights about the pipeline landscape, pipeline drug profiles, including clinical and non-clinical stage products, and the key recurrent glioblastoma companies, including Genenta Science, CNS Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Roche, among others. Recurrent Glioblastoma Epidemiology Forecast Recurrent Glioblastoma Epidemiology Forecast – 2032 report delivers an in-depth understanding of the disease, historical, and forecasted recurrent glioblastoma epidemiology in the 7MM, i.e., the United States, EU-4 (Germany, Spain, Italy, and France), the United Kingdom, and Japan. Other Trending Reports Goitre Market | Thymus Cancer Market | US Healthcare Outlook Report | Venous Stenosis Market | Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Systems Market | Metrorrhagia Market | Dysfunctional Uterine Bleeding Market | Hypereosinophilic Syndrome Market | Age-related Vision Dysfunction Market | Dental Lasers Market | CRISPR Therapies Pipeline Insight | Cell And Gene Therapy For Multiple Myeloma Market | Drug Hypersensitivity Market | Dysthymia Market | Persistent Depressive Disorder Market | Cancer Vaccines Market | Weight Loss/Weight Management (Obesity) Market | Food Allergy Market | Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Market | Tumor Ablation Market | Physiotherapy Equipment Market | CAR-T Pipeline Insight | Anti-hypertension Market | Radiofrequency Ablation Devices Market | Global Messenger RNA (mRNA)-based Vaccines and Therapeutics Market | Gastro Intestinal Bleeding Market | Trastuzumab Biosimilars Insight | Varicose Veins Market | Germ Cell Tumor Market | Intracardiac Echocardiography Devices Market | India Healthcare Outlook Report | Crows Feet Market Insight | Seborrhoeic Dermatitis Market | Injectable Drug Delivery Devices Market | Structural Heart Devices Market | Substance (Drug) Abuse Market About DelveInsight DelveInsight is a leading Business Consultant and Market Research firm focused exclusively on life sciences. It supports pharma companies by providing comprehensive end-to-end solutions to improve their performance. Get hassle-free access to all the healthcare and pharma market research reports through our subscription-based platform PharmDelve. Connect with us on LinkedIn|Facebook|Twitter Additionally, get in touch with our business executive to explore @Healthcare Due Diligence Services  Contact Us Shruti Thakur info@delveinsight.com +1(919)321-6187www.delveinsight.com  Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1082265/DelveInsight_Logo.jpg Ulcerative colitis is an idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease affecting ~1.5 million patients in the US and with an unknown exact cause. It affects... DelveInsight's 'Molecular Glues Competitive Landscape – 2024' report provides comprehensive global coverage of available, marketed, and pipeline... Health Care & Hospitals Medical Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals