DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The "South Korea Data Center Market - Investment Analysis & Growth Opportunities 2023-2028" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
 
The South Korea data center market size will reach USD 6.74 billion by 2028, growing at a CAGR of 9.89% from 2022 to 2028.
 
This report analyses the South Korea Data Center Market share. It elaboratively analyses the existing and upcoming facilities and investments in IT, electrical, mechanical infrastructure, general construction, and tier standards. It discusses market sizing and investment estimation for different segments.
 
The increasing demand for migration to cloud platforms by various sectors is attracting local and global cloud service providers. For instance, Neowiz, an online gaming company in South Korea, closed its on-premises data centers to shift to AWS and MegazoneCloud. Neowiz opted for AWS cloud because of its highly reliable and scalable infrastructure and secure environment.
 
In terms of 5G connectivity, telecom operators such as SK Telecom, KT Corp, LG Uplus, Samsung, Nokia, and Contela are involved in deploying the 5G network services across the country. For instance, Nokia announced the launch of its private 5G open lab at its Seoul office to support the development of 5G private wireless networks in the country.
 
The market is also witnessing the development of several smart city projects that will significantly benefit industrial land availability and data center construction opportunities in the coming years. For instance, in 2021, Sejong City and Hancom Group joined hands to develop a new smart city based on technologies such as artificial intelligence.
 
The government established several free economic zones, such as Incheon FEZ, Busan-Jinhae FEZ, Gwangyang Bay Area FEZ, and Yellow Sea FEZ, that will offer space for industrial development with benefits such as tax exemptions.
 
Government steps towards the personal data protection law named the Personal Information Protection Act (PIPA) and the establishment of the Korea Data Center Council have strengthened the South Korea data center market.
 
The country's market is among the prominently growing markets with a significant rise in job opportunities, and the government of South Korea is leveraging the migration of foreign workforce. For instance, in June 2022, Tencent Cloud signed a four-party Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Megazone Cloud, Korea Mobile Game Association (KMGA), and Yeonsung University to encourage cloud-based mobile game developers in South Korea.
 
WHY SHOULD YOU BUY THIS RESEARCH?
 
VENDOR LANDSCAPE
 
COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE
 
IT Infrastructure Providers:
 
Data Center Construction Contractors & Sub-Contractors:
 
Support Infrastructure Providers:
 
Data Center Investors:
 
New Entrants:
 
EXISTING VS. UPCOMING DATA CENTERS
 
The segmentation includes:
 
IT Infrastructure
 
Network Infrastructure
 
Electrical Infrastructure
 
Mechanical Infrastructure
 
Other Mechanical Infrastructure
 
General Construction
 
Physical Security
 
Tier Standard
 
Geography
 
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/hyvmgm
 
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.comFor E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./ CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.