Mar. 29—A Koch Foods plan to tear down one building and replace it with a new one is part of a $100 million proposal that will create 100 new jobs, according to a Butler County official. Just when Koch Foods will demolish the old Liberty Mutual insurance building on Seward Road with the assistance of the Butler County Port Authority is not yet known. Koch Foods General Manager Brian Reisen said there's "nothing to report yet." Last week, the Butler County Port Authority agreed through a resolution to assist Koch Foods in the demolition of the former insurance building and the construction of a 450,000-square-foot cold storage and distribution facility that would support the chicken processor's facility a little more than a mile north on Port Union Road. The county Port Authority approved a development agreement with Koch Foods. Butler County Development Director David Fehr said the Koch Foods demolition and planned new facility "represents an investment of more than $100 million" as they intend "to create 100 jobs with an average pay of more than $60,000 a year." Koch Foods purchased the building last year for $8.4 million, and the company also purchased an adjacent property for $1.6 million, according to the Butler County Auditor's Office. The purchases were made as Koch Foods was still constructing an expansion of its manufacturing and processing facility at 4100 Port Union Road. The new 402,140-square-foot building sits on 18 acres behind Koch Foods' 45-acre main campus, representing a $220 million investment. Most of the money, about $140 million, was spent on the building, with the balance of that investment going toward new machinery and equipment. That expansion created hundreds of new jobs, as some had been hired when the building opened earlier this year, and additional jobs will be filled throughout the year, Reisen previously told the Journal-News. Koch Foods purchased the former Liberty Mutual insurance building from Ambrose Property Group, an Indiana-based developer that's behind the Fairfield Commerce Park on the adjacent 137 acres on Seward Road. Because Ambrose Property Group no longer owns the former insurance company building, Fairfield City Council needed to amend its Community Reinvestment Agreement. The developer has constructed three industrial buildings on the adjacent land, and a fourth industrial building is nearing completion, Fairfield Economic Development Manager Nathaniel Kaelin said. Kaelin said on Monday all four buildings had been fully leased, and the tenants on the yet-to-be-finished building will move in once construction is completed. In September 2022, Fairfield City Council approved a second CRA with Ambrose Property Group after the company purchased 27 acres across the street from Fairfield Commerce Center. The company is planning a 200,000-plus-square-foot speculative industrial building, the company's fifth on Seward Road. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.