
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Newsfile Corp)  Thought Leaders from Zurich, Everest, and Markel Join #FOICanada 2023!
Toronto, Ontario--(Newsfile Corp. - September 19, 2023) - Canada's top carriers - including  Everest, Manulife, Liberty Mutual  ,  Gore Mutual, Zurich,  and  Markel    have all confirmed their attendance at Canada's most senior insurance event,  The Future of Insurance Canada 2023  (Sheraton Centre Toronto, November 15 -16).As the industry continues to grapple with   unprecedented levels of disruption, The Future of Insurance Canada 2023 provides a truly unique opportunity to get 300+ senior decision makers under one roof to turn uncertainty into an opportunity to transform the entire insurance value chain. The event is Canada's premier insurance community, providing unprecedented insight on how you can optimize tech, enhance retention, and foster growth.  Download the official event brochure here - featuring speakers, agenda, audience breakdown and more!    Key highlights from #FOICanada 2023 include:   A truly world-class speaker line up:  Meet the driving force behind Canada insurance evolution. Featuring a speaker roster jam packed with CEOs, Presidents, CISOs, CXOs and more all here to equip you with the insight & case studies you need to accelerate your transformation.    Unparalleled networking opportunities:  Regardless of how you like to network (informally over a coffee, at a seated lunch, or in our dedicated networking zone) it's all here at #FOICanada. Connect with C-Suite Execs and senior decision makers from across Canada's top carriers. Whether its first conversations, meeting up with old friends, or finalizing next steps, leave with the quality conversations that matter.   An agenda led by carriers, for carriers:  100+ hours of research with senior insurance execs from across Canada's most influential carriers including Lloyds, Everest, and Sun Life. 2023's agenda gets to the beating heart of carrier's strategy, customer, product, technology, and innovation challenges. Wave goodbye to the boring and in personal and say hello to an immersive agenda that you can really get your teeth into.   Full details within the event brochure - download here    #FOICanada is the only insurance event you need to attend this year.  Contact Info:  Tom Robinson Newsfile on behalf of Reuters EventsTo view the source version of this press release, please visit   MENAFN19092023004218003983ID1107097584 Toronto, Ontario--(Newsfile Corp. - September 19, 2023) - Canada's top carriers - including  Everest, Manulife, Liberty Mutual  ,  Gore Mutual, Zurich,  and  Markel    have all confirmed their attendance at Canada's most senior insurance event,  The Future of Insurance Canada 2023  (Sheraton Centre Toronto, November 15 -16). As the industry continues to grapple with   unprecedented levels of disruption, The Future of Insurance Canada 2023 provides a truly unique opportunity to get 300+ senior decision makers under one roof to turn uncertainty into an opportunity to transform the entire insurance value chain.  The event is Canada's premier insurance community, providing unprecedented insight on how you can optimize tech, enhance retention, and foster growth.   Download the official event brochure here - featuring speakers, agenda, audience breakdown and more!     Key highlights from #FOICanada 2023 include: Meet the driving force behind Canada insurance evolution. Featuring a speaker roster jam packed with CEOs, Presidents, CISOs, CXOs and more all here to equip you with the insight & case studies you need to accelerate your transformation.  Regardless of how you like to network (informally over a coffee, at a seated lunch, or in our dedicated networking zone) it's all here at #FOICanada. Connect with C-Suite Execs and senior decision makers from across Canada's top carriers. Whether its first conversations, meeting up with old friends, or finalizing next steps, leave with the quality conversations that matter. 100+ hours of research with senior insurance execs from across Canada's most influential carriers including Lloyds, Everest, and Sun Life. 2023's agenda gets to the beating heart of carrier's strategy, customer, product, technology, and innovation challenges. Wave goodbye to the boring and in personal and say hello to an immersive agenda that you can really get your teeth into.    Full details within the event brochure - download here     #FOICanada is the only insurance event you need to attend this year.   Contact Info:  Tom Robinson Newsfile on behalf of Reuters Events  To view the source version of this press release, please visit   MENAFN19092023004218003983ID1107097584 MENAFN19092023004218003983ID1107097584 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN