By Ben Willcocks For Mailonline   Published:  15:40 EDT, 5 March 2023   |  Updated:  15:40 EDT, 5 March 2023      10 View  comments  Watching Manchester United lift the Carabao Cup 'hurt' Liverpool's dressing room, Reds captain Jordan Henderson admitted after his side's scintillating 7-0 win against the Red Devils on Sunday. Despite leading just 1-0 at half time, Liverpool thrashed their bitter rivals thanks to a flurry of second-half goals from Cody Gakpo, Darwin Nunez, Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino, who carved apart United's lacklustre and lethargic defence. Henderson praised his side's work rate after the performance, highlighting that their 'energy levels' had returned after a host of below-par performances. '(It was) a fantastic day for everyone,' the midfielder insisted after the match.  'The performance from every single player was top quality. I think today you could see the energy levels and everything was back. We knew in the past few weeks we were on the right path.' Jordan Henderson (centre) admitted it hurt watching Manchester United lift a trophy last week Liverpool ran riot at Anfield and thrashed their bitter rivals 7-0 after an inconsistent run of form The club captain went on to confess that watching United lift the Carabao Cup - which marked their rivals' first trophy since 2017 - was a bitter pill to swallow last week. 'United have played really well of late, it hurt us a bit watching them lift a trophy. For us it was just about today and performing at the level we’re capable of,' he added. 'We’ve just got to take every game as it comes. I’m really happy for Mo because its not a coincidence that he gets these numbers.' Salah moved ahead of Robbie Fowler to become Liverpool's all-time Premier League goal scorer with 129 goals, netting twice against Manchester United on Sunday. Fowler bagged 128 goals during his two spells at Anfield, while club legend Steven Gerrard scored 120 during his illustrious career in red. The club captain praised his side's work rate and insisted that their 'energy levels' had returned  Mohamed Salah became Liverpool's all-time leading Premier League scorer with 129 goals The former Liverpool striker took to social media on Sunday evening to congratulate the Egyptian. 'Huge congrats, Mo Salah. #LiverpoolLegend,' Fowler tweeted with a picture of him watching on from the stands at Anfield. Liverpool climbed above Newcastle and to within three points of Tottenham, who currently hold the fourth Champions League spot on 45 points. Meanwhile, United all but waved farewell to any hope of claiming the title, remaining 14 points behind rampant league leaders Arsenal.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group