Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – An ambitious pilot program to develop an autonomous shuttle to serve downtown Youngstown – plus new public awareness campaigns and green initiatives – made for a smooth ride in 2022 for the Western Reserve Transit Authority and its customers. “We’re always working to improve service for our riders, and at the same time, find ways to support the Mahoning Valley,” says Dean Harris, executive director, “2022 was a big year for kicking off new projects to help us achieve those goals.” The autonomous vehicle project will feature a 12-passenger shuttle that will operate along a route connecting Federal Station, St. Elizabeth Hospital and Youngstown State University. Other projects in 2022 included the addition of a solar canopy and charging equipment for electric buses as part of renovations at the bus barn storage facility at its headquarters on Mahoning Avenue. The solar panels will reduce the impact on the electrical grid and reduce WRTA’s need to use electricity that may be generated by fossil fuels, Harris says. WRTA also initiated campaigns in support of businesses, education and community organizations. In May, WRTA launched its “Give Small Business a Lift Campaign.” Twelve small businesses were highlighted, one of which won a $3,000 TV advertising package during the kick-off event downtown. In September, WRTA rolled out its All Star Schools Campaign. The campaign recognized secondary schools and the job they do in developing future leaders. WRTA highlighted 24 schools through TV commercials, social media and on the buses. WRTA wrapped up 2022 with its annual Holiday Lights Campaign. Twelve organizations were chosen and featured on signs on WRTA buses. At a kickoff event, each organization was presented with a recognition award. WRTA provided more than two million rides in 2022, Harris says, getting passengers to work, shopping, doctor appointments and more. Published by The Business Journal, Youngstown, Ohio. Company News August 19 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – Steward Health Care System – now managed by a transition committee that excludes executives who signed the real estate deals under criminal investigation in multiple jurisdictions – is accusing its landlord of “undermining” and “interfering with” efforts… Company News August 19 PITTSBURGH, Pa. – Under an agreement announced Monday, Giant Eagle Inc. will sell its GetGo Café + Markets to Canadian-based Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. The acquisition is expected to close in 2025 and is subject to standard regulatory approval and closing… Company News August 19 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – A new initiative of Flying High Inc. aims to help meet the rising demand for donated food by providing produce grown by its clients. Flying High, which provides drug and alcohol treatment, reentry and employment training services,… Now Available Check out the latest issue of The Business Journal 
				Just $99/year or $10/month will get you full
				access to all of our articles every month.
			 
				Already a subscriber? Log In
 Stay up to date with all of our latest news, events, and resources All Content © 2024 Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company Flipbooks are available to paid subscribers only. Subscribe now or log in for access.