UK Edition Pendragon, the car dealer that this week accepted a 27.4p a share takeover deal from Lithia Motors, the US group, yesterday rejected a 28p a share offer, worth $486 million, from its largest shareholder and a long-time critic. Two days after Pendragon agreed a complex deal that would see the demerger of its Stratstone and Evans Halshaw forecourts from its Pinewood dealership software management system, Sweden’s Hedin joined with another US motor group, Penske, to attempt to derail the transaction. Hedin is a dealership group that owns 26 per cent of Pendragon and has been advised by Pendragon’s former boss, Trevor Finn. Penske is the US group that owns Pendragon’s arch-rival Sytner, Britain’s largest motor dealer. Hedin has been critical of Pendragon’s leadership under chief executive Bill Berman. Last year it made offers at 28p and 29p a share and declared that while it might be prepared to accept a rival takeover offer, it would not accept any pitched at less than 35p a share. Pendragon employs 5,300 people across 160 sites. In a statement, the board said it had “unanimously rejected an unsolicited and preliminary proposal” from Hedin and Penske that came with “a number of conditions, including the completion of due diligence and external debt financing” and “no certainty that any firm offer will be made.” The Pendragon board said the counter-offer “fundamentally undervalues the company”. Hedin’s status as kingmaker in any transaction has been weakened by Pendragon’s board stating that it is prepared to accept 51 per cent shareholder agreement for the Lithia deal. The Lithia offer is marginally lower than that of Hedin and Penske but Pendragon argues that it potentially offers its shareholders long-term upsides. The offer values Pendragon’s dealership at about £250 million, or 16.5p a share, which Pendragon has said will be returned to shareholders via a £240 million special dividend. Pendragon shareholders would keep an 83 per cent stake in the Pinewood business. It would retain Pendragon’s London Stock Exchange listing and, after a £30 million cash injection by Lithia, would be valued at about £180 million — worth 10.3p a share to Pendragon shareholders. It is argued that as a technology business, Pinewood should attract a better investor rating than Pendragon as a car dealer. Shareholders have also been offered a stake in a Pinewood/Lithia joint venture in the US, which Pendragon says is worth another 0.6p a share. Pendragon shares had risen from 18½p earlier in the week to 23¾p after agreement of the Lithia offer. Following news of Hedin’s approach, the shares rose again, up 3¼p, or 14 per cent, to close at 27p, a nine-month high. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.