
  Industry rumours are rife that a fresh overseas bid is imminent for auto retailer Lookers after a key shareholder in the London-listed group withdrew support for a £465 million takeover by Canada's Alpha Auto Group.
 
  Shares in Lookers, owner of the former Taggarts chain of car dealerships in Scotland, closed yesterday's trading more than 10% lower after the Manchester-based group said it does not expect to muster enough support to approve the acquisition at a meeting scheduled for Thursday. Directors recommended the 120p per share offer from Alpha Auto in June.
 
  Although the meeting will go ahead directors now believe the vote will fall short of the 75% approval needed after its largest shareholder, Cinch Holdco, said it no longer favours the deal. Cinch is owned by Constellation Automotive Group, which also owns Marshal Motors, BCA and We Buy Any Car.
 
READ MORE: Lookers: Auto heavyweight agrees to Canadian takeover bid
 
  "In this event, the Lookers directors will continue to pursue constructive engagement with all shareholders, including Cinch, who continues to be the Company's largest shareholder holding approximately 19.52% of the issued share capital," the company said in a statement.
 
  Lookers is the UK's third-largest motor retail chain with approximately 140 franchised dealerships representing some 30 manufacturers. Its Scottish outlets include sites in Edinburgh, Motherwell, Glasgow, Stirling and Ayr.
 
  When the offer from Alpha Auto was revealed in June, it has support from shareholders controlling 42% of Lookers' issued equity. However, the ensuing jump in the company's share price allowed many investors to sell down their holdings, eroding support for the deal.
 
  Cinch parent company Constellation appears to have held fast to its stake and is now believed to have been in conversations with at least one group that is mooting a rival takeover offer at a higher price. Constellation has not stated why it now intends to vote against the bid from Alpha Auto.
 
  Industry trade publications are reporting that a rival bid is expected to be tabled soon, most likely by acquisitive US car dealer group Lithia Motors. 
 
READ MORE: Lookers deal sends automotive sector speculation racing
 
  Liberum analyst Sanjay Vidyarthi said in June that the offer from Alpha Auto looked "cheap", suggesting that a target price of 150p was more sensible. Lithia, whose stated aim is to grow its revenues through acquisitions, took over the UK's Jardine Motors in a £300m deal earlier this year.
 
  With revenues of £4.3 billion last year, Lookers is led by chief executive Mark Raban who originally joined the group as chief financial officer from Marshall Motor Group in 2019.
 
  He moved into the top post a few months later and since then has led the group through a series of challenges that included the onset of the Covid pandemic, with health-related trading restrictions pushing Lookers into a £50m loss in 2020 as it was forced to close its showrooms for large parts of the year.
 
  During that year the group also uncovered a £19m hole in its accounts related to “misrepresented and overstated debtor balances” and “a number of fraudulent expense claims” within one of its operating divisions. This triggered a tough two years as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) scrutinised compliance procedures while Lookers worked with the financial regulator to resolve any concerns.
 
  Things turned a corner when the group posted a record underlying pre-tax profit of £90.1m for 2021, driven primarily by surging margins on used vehicles as Covid disruptions and global semiconductor shortages cut the supply of new cars coming off the assembly line. That was followed by a pre-tax profit of £81m in 2022, which represented growth of 3% after the exclusion of £9.8m of Covid government grant support received the previous year.
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.