This blog is now closed. To read our latest news on Ukraine, click here. Authorities in Crimea, which Russia unilaterally annexed from Ukraine in 2014, have declared a municipal state of emergency in the area where a drone struck earlier. [See 4.25 BST] Suspilne, Ukraine’s state broadcaster, offers this round-up of overnight news from Ukraine. It reports: At night, the Russian Federation launched over Ukraine seven Onyx cruise missiles, four Kh-22 cruise missiles, three Kalibr cruise missiles, five Iskander-K cruise missiles and 19 Shahed drones. Air defence forces shot down two Kalibrs, three Iskanders and 13 drones. In Mykolaiv, they hit a three-storey building, part of the building was destroyed, and they continue to clear the debris there. Residential buildings and about 15 garages were damaged in the city. Currently, 19 victims are known, two of them are hospitalised, including a child. In Odesa, due to a rocket attack, four people were injured, one more person may be under the rubble, mayor Trukhanov said. In the city, the administrative building was destroyed, and houses were damaged by the blast wave. Warehouses were hit in the region. In Sumy, a drone hit the building of a children’s camp on the outskirts of the city, an injured woman was treated on the spot. In Chernihiv region drones hit residential buildings, the number of victims is being specified. Kherson and Dnipropetrovsk regions were also under fire at night. Residential buildings and an infrastructure object were damaged. There are no casualties. The claims have not been independently verified. Russia is responsible for a major global food supply crisis, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said on Thursday, some days after the Kremlin announced it would suspend an agreement for Ukrainian grain exports through the Black Sea. “What we already know is that this is going to create a big and huge food crisis in the world,” Reuters reports Borrell told journalists before heading into a EU foreign ministers’ meeting. Borrell also accused Russia of deliberately attacking grain storage facilities in the southern port city of Odesa, which he said would further deepen the food crisis. The Ukrainian presidential adviser Andriy Yermak has made another appeal for tougher sanctions against Russia and more air defence supplies for Ukraine, tweeting: We must unite against Russian evil. Russia’s economy should suffer a devastating sanctions blow, the military-industrial complex should be limited in its ability to produce weapons, and Ukraine should receive more weapons for defence of the sky and offensive actions. Here is a reminder that earlier the Russian ministry of defence said that it would now be treating all ships heading to Ukrainian ports as potential carriers of military cargo. In a statement, the ministry said: In connection with the termination of the Black Sea initiative and the curtailment of the maritime humanitarian corridor, from midnight Moscow time on 20 July 2023, all ships proceeding to Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea waters will be considered as potential carriers of military cargo. Accordingly, the flag countries of such ships will be considered involved in the Ukrainian conflict on the side of the Kyiv regime. A number of sea areas in the north-western and south-eastern parts of the international waters of the Black Sea have been declared temporarily dangerous for navigation. Relevant information warnings about the withdrawal of safety guarantees for seafarers have been issued in the prescribed manner. Police in Odesa have announced some road closures as they deal with the consequences of the overnight attack on the city, Suspilne reports. This is Martin Belam taking over the live blog in London. You can contact me at martin.belam@theguardian.com. The wires have sent through some pictures from Mykolaiv, where the governor said earlier that 18 people had been injured in Russian missile strikes overnight. Ukraine’s military shot down five cruise missiles and 13 attack drones launched by Russian forces overnight at the southern Mykolaiv and Odesa regions, Reuters has reported citing Kyiv’s air force. It said Russia fired 19 cruise missiles and 19 drones in total, but did not specify exactly where the others struck. Later today the lawfulness of the UK sanctions regime set up in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine will face its biggest legal test, when a Soviet-era oligarch and ally of Roman Abramovich seeks a court order to release his assets, which include two private jets. The case being brought by Eugene Shvidler, a billionaire oil businessman, follows similar challenges by oligarchs now entering the courts in Europe where a separate but similar sanction regime operates. At stake is billions of pounds worth of assets, some of which the west wants to siphon off to help fund Ukraine’s reconstruction. Shvidler’s request for the release of his assets is the first case to reach the UK high court involving an individual. A number of other cases are waiting to be heard if he succeeds. Russia likely made the decision to quit the Black Sea grain deal “some time ago because it decided that the deal was no longer serving its interests”, the UK’s Ministry of Defence has said in its latest intelligence update on the war. Russia has masked this with disinformation, claiming its withdrawal is instead due to concerns that civilian ships are at risk from Ukrainian mines and that Ukraine was making military use of the grain corridor without providing evidence for these claims. It added that Russia’s Black Sea fleet (BSF) would now likely take a more active role in disrupting any trade that continues. However BSF blockade operations will be at risk from Ukrainian uncrewed surface vehicles and coastal defence cruise missiles. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 20 July 2023.Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/MoP1pB2Npx🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/Vmve0bMlM4