Here's how to stream the star-studded concert at Windsor Castle. The line-up for the coronation concert celebrating King Charles and Queen Camilla is, as the BBC puts it, "eclectic." Featuring Katy Perry, Lionel Richie, Nicole Scherzinger, Tiwa Savage, and more musicians, the event will take place on the grounds of Windsor Castle the day after Charles's historic coronation service. "To share the stage with the other performers at the Coronation Concert is a once-in-a-lifetime event and it will be an honor and a celebration," Richie said in a statement. King Charles and Queen Camilla will be in the stands to watch the concert, as will other members of the royal family; Prince William is reportedly set to take the stage to pay tribute to his father; and in total, 20,000 members of the public will be at Windsor to take in the show. The BBC will broadcast the concert live, on BBC News and BBC.com. In the U.S., the concert will be broadcast on PBS from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time. Watch PBS online "The BBC is committed to giving audiences everywhere a chance to follow the events around the Coronation, live," Naja Nielsen, Digital Director for BBC News, said in a statement. Charlotte Moore, BBC Chief Content Officer, added, "We are bringing the nation together for this once in a generation occasion, broadcast exclusively across the BBC live from Windsor Castle. We have a world class line up of performers to look forward to for what promises to be a very special night of celebration and entertainment." The broadcast will begin at 8 p.m. local time, which is 3 p.m. eastern time or 12 p.m. noon pacific time. Emily Burack (she/her) is the Senior News Editor for Town & Country, where she covers entertainment, culture, the royals, and a range of other subjects. Before joining T&C, she was the deputy managing editor at Hey Alma, a Jewish culture site. Follow her @emburack on Twitter and Instagram. Meet Finnegan Biden Kate Middleton's Greatest Style Moments  Queen Camilla's Top Tiara Moments, In Photos 7 Things to Know About Princess Eugenie Who's the Queen's Granddaughter, Princess Beatrice Who Are Camilla's Grandchildren Princess Beatrice's Most Fashionable Moments Queen Letizia's Best Looks of All Time Peter Phillips and Lindsay Wallace Split Who Is Rose Hanbury, Marchioness of Cholmondeley? 8 Things to Know About Lady Louise Windsor The History of Britain's Imperial State Crown A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.