Everwise Amphitheater at White River State Park is the new name for the 6,000-capacity concert venue in downtown Indianapolis, concert promoter Live Nation Entertainment announced Monday. The venue’s naming-rights partner, Everwise Credit Union, was known as Teachers Credit Union until June 2023 before a rebranding. Established as the Lawn at White River State Park in 2004, the venue was renamed TCU Amphitheater at White River State Park in 2021. More than 40 shows were presented at the outdoor amphitheater in 2023. The Everwise name will apply to all 2024 events. Four concerts have been announced for the upcoming season: In 2023, the venue hosted the annual Legends Day concert during Indianapolis 500 weekend, starring Brad Paisley, as well as an Indy Jazz Fest multi-act show featuring Boney James, Sheila E. and Stanley Clarke. The venue operates as a public-private partnership between the White River State Park Commission and Live Nation. When Teachers Credit Union became the amphitheater’s naming-rights partner in 2021, Live Nation officials told IBJ the length of the sponsorship agreement was set for seven years. From 2012 through 2019, the venue was known as the Farm Bureau Insurance Lawn at White River State Park.  Please enable JavaScript to view this content. Editor's note: You can comment on IBJ stories by signing in to your IBJ account. If you have not registered, please sign up for a free account now. Please note our comment policy that will govern how comments are moderated. It’ll always be Conseco RCA Deer Creek to me. Much like Deer Creek will always be Deer Creek, this is always going to be called The Lawn … until those of us at “that age” die off. Smart move for TCU to change their name.  Have always thought the credit union was just for teacher’s.  And good on ya for sponsoring and supporting the venue.  It’s a beautiful place to see a show. Everwise rolls off of no one’s tongue! Agreed. I’m still going to call it The Lawn… good chat. You must be logged in to post a comment. Join the thousands of business and community leaders and Indiana residents that choose IBJ as their primary local news source. Join us on Tuesday, August 27th to get the scoop on Indy's commercial real estate and construction scene from our expert panelists. RSVP by August 20th! More events Get the best of  Indiana business news. ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Get the best of  Indiana business news. ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Get the best of  Indiana business news. ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Get the best of  Indiana business news. ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Limited-time introductory offer for new subscribers ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Already a paid subscriber? Log In Limited-time introductory offer for new subscribers ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Already a paid subscriber? Log In Limited-time introductory offer for new subscribers ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Already a paid subscriber? Log In Limited-time introductory offer for new subscribers ONLY $1/week Subscribe Now Already a paid subscriber? Log In