 Canadian National Railway Co. experienced a network-wide system failure on Tuesday afternoon that affected Via, GO and other trains in Ontario. After causing chaos for commuters during the evening rush hour, the issue was resolved and service was restored Tuesday night.  "CN's internet connectivity has been restored," a CN spokesperson said in an update Tuesday evening. "While there continues to be no indication of a cybersecurity issue, the cause of the outage remains under investigation."  Earlier in the day, a CN spokesperson explained that "an internet connectivity issue" had affected GO and Via Rail trains arriving and departing Toronto's Union Station.  The outage was first reported Tuesday afternoon. Limited service resumed Tuesday evening and regular schedules were restored later in the night.  The city's main passenger rail hub, Toronto's Union Station was crowded with commuters looking to get home after work on Tuesday. By the evening, trains were trickling out of the station every 30-or-so minutes after being halted for much of the afternoon.  Ontario transit agency Metrolinx expected delays and cancellations to stretch into the evening.  "Our top priority is getting people home from Union Station, which is very busy tonight," Metrolinx said in a statement. "Trains are expected to be very busy, so please continue to explore alternative ways to get to your destination this evening – or consider travelling later this evening when trains and buses are expected to be less busy."  Commuters wait for updates on train availabilities at Toronto's Union Station after GO Transit and UP Express announced that trains are not running on the entire network due to a network-wide system failure on Tuesday, Oct. 3, 2023. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Chris Young  The TTC increased subway, streetcar and bus service to deal with the influx of passengers. Prices on ride sharing apps reportedly skyrocketed amid the disruptions.  "There is a CN network-wide system failure that is affecting all of our rail corridors," a statement from Ontario's GO Transit and Metrolinx explained earlier in the day. "Our teams are working with CN to resolve the issue quickly and safely."  In an online statement, Via Rail Canada said some trains entering and departing Toronto's Union Station were experiencing delays due to the CN system failure.  Toronto's UP Express airport train was also impacted and was operating at a reduced schedule following an earlier service disruption. GO Transit and the UP Express are both operated by Metrolinx, an Ontario Crown corporation.  On social media, passengers reported waiting on affected trains for hours.  EXO service in Quebec, as well as CN and Amtrak trains, are operating, according to CN.  "GO Transit has now resumed dispatching their lines and they are working to resume their normal movements," the CN spokesperson said Tuesday night. "CN will be working with GO to review the incident and put in place processes to avoid further disruptions."  With files from CTV News Toronto The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  Party faithful are feeling invigorated by U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris's swift ascension to the top of the ticket as the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago on Monday following a tumultuous month for the party.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  Over time, Jon Kotwicki says he and his team are 'creating, you know, kind of our own little airport amusement park' in Wasilla, Alaska.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a ceasefire and hostage release in Gaza, and he called on Hamas to do the same, without saying whether concerns cited by the militant group had been addressed.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  New research out of the University of British Columbia shows migrant workers are living in extreme heat conditions not compliant with regulations.  A portion of Danforth Avenue is closed in Toronto’s Greektown area after the driver of a custom Ford Model T crashed into a tree or a sign and was ejected from their vehicle, say police.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  Local businesses and consumers are sounding the alarm as a nationwide rail strike looms.  Some quick-thinking Calgarians used a garden hose to put out a fire spreading up the side of their home on Monday afternoon.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  CTV Montreal was forced to set up a makeshift studio on Nun's Island after a water main break caused water to flood into our building.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  Stony Plain Road will be closed until the end of November so Marigold can complete extra work on the Valley Line West LRT.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Police in Fort McMurray seized more than $100,000 worth of drugs and cash from three homes last week.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  A Nova Scotia man has been charged with attempted murder in connection to a weekend stabbing.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  On August 18, 1964, 60 years and one day ago, the Fab Four made an unscheduled stop in Winnipeg, drawing more than 1,000 fans to the airport.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  Michael Gordon Jackson is scheduled to present arguments for sentencing as part of his own defence.  An investigation from Western University’s Northern Tornadoes Project has classified Saturday’s tornado in Ayr, Ont., as an EF1.  Residents in Waterloo Region are being asked to conserve water for approximately one week, starting Monday while an important water pipe is repaired.  Waterloo Regional Police are investigating after a man was hurt in a Cambridge shooting.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In an announcement made Saturday by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Saskatoon’s Tracy Muggli has been appointed as an independent senator for Saskatchewan to fill a vacancy in the Senate.  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  In hopes that it will help their investigation, Greater Sudbury Police have released the name of a man who was found dead at Bell on July 31  Investigators have discovered human remains during a search of property in southeastern Michigan that belongs to a man whose wife disappeared more than three years ago and is presumed dead.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  Two men were injured in an incident that occurred at a Barrie plaza around Cundles Road East and Sperling Drive early Monday morning.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 29-year-old man is in police custody following an alleged assault on a bus driver near Victoria.  British Columbia's provincial health officer is reminding parents and guardians to ensure their children are up to date on all their vaccines before heading back to school next month.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  When the McDougall Creek fire sparked on Aug. 15, 2023, no one could’ve imagined it would mushroom in size, consuming homes, infrastructure and livelihoods in the West Kelowna area with damage that will take years to address.  Thieves in B.C.'s Okanagan recently made off with an enclosed trailer containing a classic muscle car, local police say.  Trucks have started rolling into what will become Lethbridge’s Whoop-Up Days midway.  More than 1,500 backpacks have been filled with back-to-school essentials for those in need ahead of the school year.  Lethbridge post-secondary schools are trying to help out students feeling the financial pinch, as a new survey reveals a quarter of Canadian students have thought about dropping out due to increasing costs.  A bacon-flavoured vodka designed specifically for a popular Canadian cocktail and made in Sudbury, Ont., is now being carried by the LCBO.  An Ontario Provincial Police officer noticed a strong smell of cannabis during a traffic stop Sunday in Espanola. Further investigation uncovered drugs and weapons.  After a crow tested positive for West Nile virus, Algoma Public Health says a human case has also been confirmed.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday.  The Twilite Drive-in Theatre has been serving movie lovers for decades.  More than a dozen children who have been diagnosed with chronic illnesses were given an unforgettable experience on the way to Sunday’s BC Lions game.  Decades of durability have been added to one of Canada’s most photographed lighthouses, the Swallowtail Lighthouse on New Brunswick’s Grand Manan Island.  After four open heart surgeries, 10-year-old Samih Angelo Alame is thriving and ready to hit Grade Six running.  The owners of a thrift store on Vancouver's Granville strip are fed up after spending $300,000 to fight off what they describe as escalating crime over the past three years.  In light of World Honey Bee Day on Saturday, local beekeepers recognized the crucial role that honey bees play in the ecosystem.  A video of a rooster in the back of a Regina police cruiser has been making its rounds on social media.  At least one runner at the Edmonton marathon on Sunday will be strapping on a pair of stilettos at the starting line.  London, Ont.'s Tessa Virtue has welcomed her first child with husband and Toronto Maple Leafs defenceman, Morgan Rielly.  The Conservative Party of Canada has deleted a video that promoted Canadian values but featured what the Defence Minister's office says are Russian fighter jets.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly says Canada will provide $1 million to help stem mpox in Africa as her government assembles a long-delayed plan on how to engage with the continent.  A man who says he suffers from chronic and worsening mental health issues is among those launching a court challenge of the federal government assisted dying law, which excludes people suffering solely from a mental disorder.  Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island are the only provinces that offer post-secondary students free vaccination against meningitis B, a rare but deadly bacterial infection.  Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly says Canada will provide $1 million to help stem mpox in Africa as her government assembles a long-delayed plan on how to engage with the continent.  An archeology student unearthed seven 'spectacular' Viking-era curled silver arm rings earlier this year north of Denmark's second-largest city, a Danish museum said on Monday, adding the finding has ties to Russia, Ukraine and the British Isles.  Social media platforms TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat spent last school year embroiled in a lawsuit accusing them of disrupting learning, contributing to a mental health crisis among youth and leaving teachers to manage the fallout.  A four-person crew for SpaceX's Polaris Dawn mission arrived in Florida on Monday ahead of its Aug. 26 launch to space for a mission that includes the first privately managed spacewalk, a risky endeavour only government astronauts have done in the past.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  It's late July. Lainey Wilson is somewhere in Iowa, holding a real road dog — her French bulldog named Hippie — close to her chest. She's on her tour bus, zipping across the Midwest, just another day in her jet set lifestyle. Next month, she'll release her fifth studio album, the aptly named “Whirlwind," a full decade after her debut record. Today, like every day, she's just trying to enjoy the ride.  'Learning from the experiences of others' has motivated Danielle Fishel go public with her diagnosis of breast cancer.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  The Canadian Federation of Independent Business says a potential work stoppage at Canada's major railways this week could be devastating for small businesses.  U.S. stocks climbed Monday as Wall Street pulls closer to its record heights following its roller coaster of a summer.  Young people on social media are showing off their 12-year-old water bottles, sweaters from high school with patched holes and dish rags made from cut up old T-shirts.  A witty pun about a sailing trip has been crowned the funniest joke told at this year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe.  One artist has developed a cult following and acclaim that eclipsed his 'traditional' paint and sculpture works.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  A former NFL player accused of drunkenly hitting one man and urinating on another during a flight from Boston to Dublin has been arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, the Massachusetts State Police said Monday.  The Edmonton Oilers traded defenseman Cody Ceci and a third-round draft pick in 2025 to the San Jose Sharks on Sunday for defenseman Ty Emberson.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  A man from the Greater Toronto Area said he was refused a car rental because he wanted to pay with a prepaid credit card.  Newer vehicles come with a slew of standard safety features that make driving feel safer for teenagers getting behind the wheel.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy