
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GetNews) 
  With an estimated 7.33 billion mobile users worldwide, businesses need to adapt their marketing strategies to keep up with the rise of mobile search. Mobile apps, videos, personalisation, and easy mobile payment are all key components of an effective mobile marketing strategy that can boost engagement, customer loyalty, and sales.
There are an estimated 7.33 billion mobile users in the world, according to Statista. A lot of these are smartphones, especially in the UK.
Since people always have their phones or tablets with them, they can read, browse, watch videos, and listen to music on the move.
The way content is consumed has changed. As a result, the way businesses communicate with their customers has also changed.
Telemedia Online discusses how changingmobile technology is affecting the future of marketing .
  Harnessing the Power of Mobile Marketing  
Because mobile phones are so ubiquitous and mobile search is growing, marketing for mobile has become an integral part of any marketing strategy, states the article.
Since mobile marketing has the potential to reach directly into the pockets/hands/eyes of the consumer, it makes sense to make the most of it.
Here are some strategies that are commonly used in mobile marketing.
  Mobile Apps  
Mobile apps are a great way of personalising the customer's experience when interacting with a business. This platform can be used to provide them with tailored content, rewards and offers specific to app users, and a smoother user journey.
Regardless of the size of the business, an app can be a powerful tool in its marketing arsenal, simply because it's a larger product type, not a specific category.
For example, a large lifestyle store could offer an e-commerce app whilst a small restaurant could offer an app on which customers could order food or make reservations. Both are apps, even if they fulfil different functions.
  Mobile Videos  
When Facebook was at its height of popularity, it became obvious that video content did much better than text-only. Now, with mobile browsing, videos are even more popular. Consider the meteoric rise of TikTok, which is nothing but user-generated videos.
Even B2B marketing videos, which might be significantly different from TikTok videos are handy for delivering powerful messages. In fact, businesses likebold content specifically offer video production services for B2B marketing.
Videos can make products come to life, customer testimonials can pack more of a punch, and even if purely for entertainment, video content for mobiles can deliver better marketing results.
Plus, video technology is changing rapidly withartificial intelligence (ai) and cloud-based filmmaking . Creating videos for a business's marketing is now easier-and more cost-effective-than ever.
It is also a way of keeping acompany's marketing recession-ready .
  Using Mobile in the Digital Marketing Strategy  
If a company wants to use mobile marketing in its strategy, there are a few steps it could take.
  Start With a Mobile-First Strategy  
It is quite difficult to take an existing (non-mobile) strategy and tweak it into an effective mobile strategy.
For example, a website built for a desktop screen technically can be converted into a responsive, mobile-friendly one, but it might never be as user-friendly as one that was specifically designed for a smaller screen.
That is why, for a business's mobile marketing strategy to be successful, it needs to be built from the ground up.
  Personalising the Customer Experience  
The biggest benefit that a mobile strategy offers is the fact that it can be customised for each customer. Unlike a desktop computer, people don't tend to share phones, which means the information associated with each device will correspond to one individual.
This can be a powerful tool for presenting highly relevant marketing messages to customers.
In order to make the most of one's mobile marketing strategy, one must consider content personalisation as part of the overall plan.
  Invest in Mobile Apps  
As discussed above, mobile apps are a great way of delivering customised offers and content.
This customer-centric solution can be very useful for increasing customer loyalty and engagement.
That, in turn, helps drive sales.
  Use Videos  
A high-quality marketing video-whether describing a product, a customer's review, or simply an entertaining social media short-can help a business get more customer engagement. These can then be used to convert.
  Incorporate Mobile Payment  
Whether a business has customers visiting a brick-and-mortar store, an app on their mobile, or the company website, making transactions easier can help conversion. Easy mobile payment is one such way of simplifying the buying process.
It can be in the form of an online store or a physical store that accepts mobile payment forms, like Apple Pay or Google Pay.
No matter how one uses plans their marketing strategy, it is obvious that making it mobile-friendly is essential. It's no longer a“good to have” - people expect it.
Not having a mobile marketing strategy means a business loses out on a huge opportunity.
MENAFN03052023003238003268ID1106167919 There are an estimated 7.33 billion mobile users in the world, according to Statista. A lot of these are smartphones, especially in the UK. Since people always have their phones or tablets with them, they can read, browse, watch videos, and listen to music on the move. The way content is consumed has changed. As a result, the way businesses communicate with their customers has also changed. Telemedia Online discusses how changingmobile technology is affecting the future of marketing .   Harnessing the Power of Mobile Marketing   Because mobile phones are so ubiquitous and mobile search is growing, marketing for mobile has become an integral part of any marketing strategy, states the article. Since mobile marketing has the potential to reach directly into the pockets/hands/eyes of the consumer, it makes sense to make the most of it. Here are some strategies that are commonly used in mobile marketing.   Mobile Apps   Mobile apps are a great way of personalising the customer's experience when interacting with a business. This platform can be used to provide them with tailored content, rewards and offers specific to app users, and a smoother user journey. Regardless of the size of the business, an app can be a powerful tool in its marketing arsenal, simply because it's a larger product type, not a specific category. For example, a large lifestyle store could offer an e-commerce app whilst a small restaurant could offer an app on which customers could order food or make reservations. Both are apps, even if they fulfil different functions.   Mobile Videos   When Facebook was at its height of popularity, it became obvious that video content did much better than text-only. Now, with mobile browsing, videos are even more popular. Consider the meteoric rise of TikTok, which is nothing but user-generated videos. Even B2B marketing videos, which might be significantly different from TikTok videos are handy for delivering powerful messages. In fact, businesses likebold content specifically offer video production services for B2B marketing. Videos can make products come to life, customer testimonials can pack more of a punch, and even if purely for entertainment, video content for mobiles can deliver better marketing results. Plus, video technology is changing rapidly withartificial intelligence (ai) and cloud-based filmmaking . Creating videos for a business's marketing is now easier-and more cost-effective-than ever. It is also a way of keeping acompany's marketing recession-ready .   Using Mobile in the Digital Marketing Strategy   If a company wants to use mobile marketing in its strategy, there are a few steps it could take.   Start With a Mobile-First Strategy   It is quite difficult to take an existing (non-mobile) strategy and tweak it into an effective mobile strategy. For example, a website built for a desktop screen technically can be converted into a responsive, mobile-friendly one, but it might never be as user-friendly as one that was specifically designed for a smaller screen. That is why, for a business's mobile marketing strategy to be successful, it needs to be built from the ground up.   Personalising the Customer Experience   The biggest benefit that a mobile strategy offers is the fact that it can be customised for each customer. Unlike a desktop computer, people don't tend to share phones, which means the information associated with each device will correspond to one individual. This can be a powerful tool for presenting highly relevant marketing messages to customers. In order to make the most of one's mobile marketing strategy, one must consider content personalisation as part of the overall plan.   Invest in Mobile Apps   As discussed above, mobile apps are a great way of delivering customised offers and content. This customer-centric solution can be very useful for increasing customer loyalty and engagement. That, in turn, helps drive sales.   Use Videos   A high-quality marketing video-whether describing a product, a customer's review, or simply an entertaining social media short-can help a business get more customer engagement. These can then be used to convert.   Incorporate Mobile Payment   Whether a business has customers visiting a brick-and-mortar store, an app on their mobile, or the company website, making transactions easier can help conversion. Easy mobile payment is one such way of simplifying the buying process. It can be in the form of an online store or a physical store that accepts mobile payment forms, like Apple Pay or Google Pay. No matter how one uses plans their marketing strategy, it is obvious that making it mobile-friendly is essential. It's no longer a“good to have” - people expect it. Not having a mobile marketing strategy means a business loses out on a huge opportunity. MENAFN03052023003238003268ID1106167919 MENAFN03052023003238003268ID1106167919 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN