Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  The following article contains spoilers for Season 2 Episode 3 of Loki.
                     This week’s episode of Loki has so much to offer. Stressful moments, mystery, thrill, and some comic relief, the 48-minute episode has it all. The scene shifts to Chicago in the 1800s this week and brings in characters that fans have been waiting to see, including a variant of He Who Remains, Ravonna Renslayer, and Miss Minutes. While this episode is paced slower than last week’s, it marks the halfway mark in Season 2 and perfectly establishes that things are about to get heated moving forward.
                         Fans will remember He Who Remains’ monologue from the Season 1 finale of Loki. He promised that if Sylvie were to kill him, he would return to being right back on top. This week’s episode of Loki is the starting point of that promise, where it seems like He Who Remains tasked Miss Minutes to kickstart a loop and hand over the official Time Variance Authority guidebook to a past variant of himself. Fast-forward a few decades, and this variant has already created a version of the temporal loom. So, in a nutshell, the incidents taking place in this week’s episode of Loki are responsible for the continuing work that the TVA has been a part of “for eons.”
      RELATED: Loki Managed To Sneak In Daniel Craig's Cut Doctor Strange 2 Character (Sort Of)
                     A key aspect of Loki has been the relationships between the various characters. The equation between Loki and Mobius, Loki and Sylvie, and now Renslayer and Minutes, all play a crucial role in the developing storyline. Gugu Mbatha-Raw and Tara Strong both deliver fantastic performances in the episode. While Loki and Mobius have shared great chemistry in the series, the highlight of this week’s episode is the equation shared by Renslayer and the menacing Minutes. The two are equally strong characters, with leadership qualities, and it’s quite easy for fans to forget that Minutes is just AI that He Who Remains created.
                         From the minute the two characters appear on-screen, their chemistry is dynamic. While they may not see eye to eye all the time, both Renslayer and Minutes are extremely sharp and focused on the bigger picture, at least most of the time. When Season 1 dropped, fans praised Minutes and the character’s creation and animation. Minutes’ switch over to a black and white look in this week’s episode is absolutely brilliant and an intelligent way for the creators to sustain the visual element while making it timely, pun intended.
                         Focusing on the storyline, this episode progresses at a slightly slower pace. A lot of time is spent in introducing He Who Remains’ variant, known as Victor Timely, and his creation of the temporal loom. It was refreshing to see a hint of comedy included in the otherwise serious situation and also the fact that the episode gives Jonathan Majors the opportunity to showcase his comic capabilities. Even the chase scene, where Loki and Mobius are looking for Timely and Renslayer, is shrouded in a veil of the 1800s, with a comedic background score and quick camera movement.
                         It is important to note that the sets include a lot of detail and a lot of work has been put into the visual effects to recreate the 1800s. One scene that stands out is the one at the Ferris Wheel. It is engaging, thrilling, and would keep fans at the edge of their seats. While the ride itself looks straight out of that era, the situation included is absolutely engaging. The scene is a callback to the Loki Season 1 finale, when Loki and Sylvie come face-to-face with He Who Remains. This time around, the duo is on opposite ends once again and battles it out in a passenger car, while Timely looks rather petrified in the background.
                         This week’s episode also offers Sophia Di Martino more time to showcase the conflict that Sylvie has to live with every day. The scene where she finally has the option to kill Timely is one to remember. Throughout the episode, she carries a machete and wants to kill the He Who Remains variant. However, when the opportunity is finally in front of her, she falters, and Martino’s performance in that moment is commendable. Sylvie’s inner conflict can be felt through her expressions, and it is obvious how difficult it is to decide to let Timely go.
                         While Martino does a fantastic job as Sylvie, one thing that lacks in the episode is a good performance from Majors. Apart from his comedic lines, his performance as Timely is rather weak as compared to the one he put on as He Who Remains. While Timely is just a variant, it is natural for fans to compare Majors’ performance for both characters, and it just seems like there is something missing. It seems worse when compared to the performance by all other actors for their roles, especially the portrayal of Minutes by Strong. Even though she is only offering her voice to the character, Strong is able to use her talent to emote, and perfectly portray Minutes’ unhinged character. Her monologue wherein she expresses her feelings for her creator is both touching and frightening at the same time. This character development deserves applause.
                         As the episode comes to a close, fans are left with a massive cliffhanger for next week. After Sylvie pushes Renslayer through a Time Door to the “End of Time,” Minutes is heard telling her, “It was foolish for him to make an enemy of someone who knows all his secrets. I know a really big one about you. I can tell you, but it’s going to make you really angry.” What is this secret? Fans are already theorizing on social media whether it could be something major connected to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Only time will tell how many of these theories will come true. For now, Loki is running full steam ahead towards the second and final half of the season. It will be interesting to see how things move forward, and what Timely will do at the TVA.
      Loki is streaming on Disney Plus.
      More: Loki Season 2 Exec Finally Addresses Jonathan Majors' Role In Light Of Legal Troubles
 Season 2's third episode is a roller coaster ride of emotions and strategies. Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Loki season 2 producer Kevin Wright confirmed a long-awaited character moment for Tom Hiddleston's God of Mischief is part of the plan. A Pokemon fan designs a new form for Rotom, reimagining the iconic Electric/Ghost-type creature from Gen 4 as a coffee machine. From a kindhearted bear to a medieval artist to humanity's supersoldier, these Xbox characters stand out for their personality. Developer Hello Games releases patch 5.05 for No Man's Sky, bringing several fixes and improvements to enhance the game's performance. After a life of abuse, Tyrion finally gave into his deepest desire and shot his father dead, but what was the final insult? How to find Johnson's Acre in Fallout 76's Savage Divide. Tarnished Will be rewarded with the Dragonbolt Of Florissax as well as a powerful summon by picking specific choices in Elden Ring SOTE.