What?!  Published: Oct 14, 2023, 4:07 Updated: Oct 14, 2023, 4:30 We still have a long way to go to get to the finish line of the Marvel Cinematic Universe's Multiverse Saga and if you've been keeping track of everything that's been going on so far, it's almost guaranteed that the next chapter of the MCU will be centered on the mutants.  However, it looks like Marvel Studios has other plans in mind and just when we all thought we've already figured out the studio's next move, Kevin Feige might throw a massive curveball that will undoubtedly change the entire complexion of the MCU in the next five years.    According to Joanna Robinson, co-author of MCU: The Reign of Marvel Studios (via @CanWeGetToast on X), the Marvel Studios boss is looking to hit the reset button on the franchise come Avengers: Secret Wars.  Robinson claims: "We have a quote from Kevin Feige sort of implying… that like Secret Wars will serve as a soft reboot in which they can prune everything. That's not to use a Loki-ism. Prune everything that's not working and just keep what is [working], or bring back people you thought were gone forever."  Also Read: Kevin Feige Teases the Future of the MCU: "We've Barely Scratched the Surface"  Of course, we've yet to get official word from Feige himself regarding the MCU's next step but it's worth mentioning that rumors about a reboot have been floating around for quite some time now.  Now, whether or not that would be a good idea remains to be seen but given the obvious decline in the franchise's overall quality, it's a risk worth taking.  As it stands, Avengers: Secret Wars is rumored to come out sometime in 2027. Meanwhile, the second season of Loki is already streaming on Disney+.  Explore new topics and discover content that's right for you!  Bri is Epicstream’s film & TV editor. He oversees the team’s daily work and ensures all the articles published are up to the highest standard.  A Communication graduate with eight years of writing experience, he joined Epicstream in 2020 after working for ABS-CBN, the Philippines' largest news network. His ability to uncover stories has made him an authority in the pop culture & entertainment space.   Epicstream  was founded in 2015 by people passionate about geek culture and we are committed to our mission of making the fast-moving world of entertainment accessible to everyone. All our writers and editors are passionate members of the communities they write for, and all articles are checked to ensure they reach our high journalistic standards before publishing.   At Gfinity Digital Media, we hold ourselves to the highest standards of editorial conduct, ensuring the integrity and quality of our content. Editorial independence is fundamental to our mission, allowing us to deliver unbiased verdicts on products and companies while avoiding conflicts of interest. Our editorial staff adheres to a stringent  editorial policy  to uphold this principle. 