Over 65 local officers will be off the job after Thursday’s hours-long standoff in Pittsburgh’s Garfield neighborhood that ended with a suspect’s death. Allegheny County Sheriff Kevin Kraus told Channel 11 that William Hardison Sr. was pronounced dead at 5:08 p.m., nearly seven hours after the shootout started. SEE PHOTOS FROM THE SCENE ⇒ Pittsburgh police, the bomb squad, Pennsylvania State Police, the FBI, the Allegheny County Sheriff’s Office, Allegheny County police, the Attorney General’s Office, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and SWAT all responded to the scene, where Hardison allegedly opened fire when sheriff’s deputies arrived to serve an eviction notice. Neighbors told Channel 11 Hardison was a squatter at the home, which was originally owned by his brother. It was a harrowing day for the neighborhood as hundreds of shots were fired. Many residents had to be evacuated. The aftermath of the shootout was seen by a Channel 11 crew the next morning, as many vehicles in the neighborhood remained parked in the streets riddled with bullets and their windows blown out. RIGHT NOW: We’re getting our first close look at the aftermath of yesterday’s shootout between William Hardison Sr. and police on Broad Street in Garfield. We’ve seen several cars with bullet holes and windows blown out. Pittsburgh police will remain here for now @WPXI pic.twitter.com/KbS2tOdi37 — Lauren Talotta (@LaurenTalottaTV) August 24, 2023 Click here for everything we’ve learned about Hardison so far. State police are handling the investigation. >>> Law enforcement officials react to active shooting situation in Garfield On Thursday, a Pittsburgh Public Safety official told Channel 11 that about 40 Pittsburgh police officers are on paid leave as protocol. The officers had to turn in the weapons that were fired. They will have to see a psychologist and then give an interview to return to the job. They are expected to be off the job for about a week. About a dozen Allegheny County police officers are on leave and will return to duty at the discretion of the superintendent, officials told Channel 11. Sixteen Allegheny County Sheriff’s Deputies fired shots and are on paid leave. They must also undergo a psychiatric evaluation before returning to work. Download the FREE WPXI News app for breaking news alerts. Follow Channel 11 News on Facebook and Twitter. | Watch WPXI NOW TRENDING NOW: PITTSBURGH ACTIVE SHOOTER: Suspect dead after police shootout in Garfield Pittsburgh active shooter: What we know about the suspect, William Hardison Sr. 1 killed in crash on I-79 in Washington County, officials say VIDEO: Radio calls between dispatchers, police describe moments as shooting situation escalated in Garfield DOWNLOAD the Channel 11 News app for breaking news alerts New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.