Amarillo College head baseball coach Brandon Rains joked that most teams don't have a $46 million gym right in the middle of downtown. Yet in its first year of existence, the Badgers can. That's because the Badgers will be playing their home games at HODGETOWN where the Double-A Sod Poodles call home and play. The Badgers got their first taste of what home games will be like Thursday as they took the field to practice for the first time.  Palo Duro's Jaime Carrillo, West Plains' Sydney Lanigan are AGN Athletes of the Week  Palo Duro's Jaime Carrillo, West Plains' Sydney Lanigan are AGN Athletes of the Week "It's been a long time in the making," Rains said. "I think we've gone 17 months in this process of putting together the team, bringing all these kids to Amarillo, working out. And now, finally, we're about two weeks away from our first game. I know the kids are really excited, the coaches are excited and the whole kids are really excited as well." It's not hard to understand why they're excited. Not only is it the birth of a new college program, but the Badgers are playing in the same spot that professional athletes call home. Corbin Carroll is slugging home runs for the Arizona Diamondbacks now, but just a few short months ago he was in the very same locker room that the players at Amarillo College are now occupying.  Hereford's Nickilah Whatley signs to play volleyball for New Mexico JC  Hereford's Nickilah Whatley signs to play volleyball for New Mexico JC "It feels awesome," first baseman and former Tascosa standout Javin Patrick said. "I walked into that locker room and was like, 'Some guys that are in the Major Leagues were in here and could've been sitting at my locker.' It is awesome. I'm grateful to play here and grateful for this opportunity." It's an opportunity some have been waiting a long time for. Cesar Gonzalez and Salvador Muniz finished their high school careers at Palo Duro in 2018, but on Thursday they took the field in blue once again. Not for the Dons, but this time for the Badgers. "First year as a college program at AC has been wonderful," Gonzalez said. "Coach Rains welcomed us in with open hands, providing us the opportunity to play. It's been an experience. We have a lot of talented players. Everybody can hit. It's been amazing." The players have come from all over. Puerto Rico, California, and other parts of Texas. But the Badgers have built the backbone of their roster on local talent featuring alumni from Tascosa, Palo Duro, Amarillo High, Randall and others. "Being born and raised here in Amarillo it's truly a blessing to represent Amarillo College and being able to start a program at Amarillo College," Muniz said. "We're the ones who create the foundation and make sure that this program goes in the right step towards a better future." Starting a team from scratch is never easy, though. The Badgers will compet in the Western Junior College Athletic Association, one of the toughest conferences in the country. The 56-game season begins with a noon Feb. 4 doubleheader against Luna Community College at at HODGETOWN. It won’t be a walk in the park, but there's new college baseball life infused into the Panhandle in the form of AC baseball. And the players find it hard not to get excited about that. "I'm pumped," outfielder and former Amarillo High star Will Franklin said. "I'm counting down the days to February 4th." This article originally appeared on Amarillo Globe-News: At long last, Amarillo College begins baseball practice on Thursday Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC.