WEATHER ALERT Daniel Dahm, Digital Content Manager Published: February 16, 2023 at 9:15 AM Updated: February 16, 2023 at 9:28 AM Daniel Dahm, Digital Content Manager A baby girl was born with a 2-inch tail despite no history of infections or radiation and two healthy parents, according to a case report in the Journal of Pediatric Surgery. The girl, born in November in Mexico, was born with a tail described as “soft” and “covered in skin and fine hair” that protruded from near the center of her tailbone and had a “pointy” tip. The tail contained nerves and the girl would cry when her tail was pierced with a needle, the Jerusalem Post reported. Recommended Videos The girl was examined for several possible medical issues, but no abnormalities were found. According to doctors, the girl’s mother had no pregnancy-related difficulties and the girl was born full-term. The girl has an older sibling, a healthy brother, from the same parents. Two months after her birth, the girl was re-examined and doctors found that her tail had grown in proportion to the girl’s size. [TRENDING: Crews battle massive fire at Fla. nursery | Lizard watch: Scientists urge Floridians to report brown basilisk sightings | Become a News 6 Insider] Doctors removed the tail and reconstructed the area with plastic surgery, the Post reported. The girl has not had any issues or complications. It’s believed to be the first report of a human born with a tail in Mexico, but there have been nearly 200 other cases worldwide, including in France, Italy and Japan, the case report stated. You can listen to every episode of Florida’s Fourth Estate in the media player below: Copyright 2023 by WKMG ClickOrlando - All rights reserved. Daniel started with WKMG-TV in 2000 and became the digital content manager in 2009. When he's not working on ClickOrlando.com, Daniel likes to head to the beach or find a sporting event nearby. email Recommended Videos Cookie Preferences If you need help with the Public File, call (407) 291-6000. At WKMG, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2024 ClickOrlando.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.