 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 
The best software accounting packages are easy to use, offer robust tracking and planning tools and reports, integrate with other software, and are easy to share with outside bookkeepers and accountants. Despite these benefits, 51% of small businesses with 19 or fewer employees rely on spreadsheets or non-digital methods to manage and track their funds, according to one recent survey. The software systems featured here can help you manage business finances more efficiently, and set you up to transfer to more complex systems later as your business grows. 
 
According to our research, QuickBooks Online is the best accounting software for small business due to its popularity with accountants, active user base, and broad collection of helpful tools and resources to help you master the software—and your business finances.
 
Before making our selection, we researched 19 different business accounting software products, and evaluated them based on their cost, scalability, ease of use, reputation, and accounting features.
 
Try Xero for free for 30 days. Get set-up with free onboarding support, connect with any of our 1,000+ app partners, and choose which of our 3 subscriptions is best for you 
We picked QuickBooks Online because of its wide use among small business accounting professionals and its numerous online training resources and forums to get support when you need it. Plus all accounting tools and features can be conveniently accessed through one main dashboard, making bookkeeping more fluid and efficient.
 Scalable Commonly used by accounting professionals Integration with third-party applications Cloud-based Has mobile app Upgrade required for more users Occasional syncing problems with banks and credit cards 
Intuit’s QuickBooks Online is one of the most familiar names in accounting software, widely used by small businesses and their bookkeeping and tax professionals. The cloud-based software can be accessed through a web browser or a mobile app.
 
There are four options for monthly subscription plans:
 
You can select a 30-day free trial, but if you choose to skip it, you'll receive 50% off the first three months.
 
The monthly subscription for this software can be upgraded as a business grows. The feature-packed mobile app can be used to receive payments, send invoices, capture an image of a receipt, provide estimates, and more. QuickBooks Payroll fully integrates with QuickBooks Online for businesses looking for a payroll solution.
 
Each plan offers more advanced features like inventory management, time tracking, additional users, and cash flow. Most service-based small businesses will find that Simple Start meets all of their needs. Essentials adds additional features for bill and time management. For product-based small businesses, Plus will have more options for inventory and customizations.
 
The Advanced subscription adds many features, including expense management, exclusive premium apps, a dedicated account team, and on-demand training. All plans allow integration with third-party apps such as Stripe or PayPal. QuickBooks Online’s app store breaks down its apps by function and provides helpful examples of each app's benefits.
 
Intuit, the company that produces QuickBooks, is a small business accounting and services behemoth with over 17,000 employees and a roster of brands that includes QuickBooks, TurboTax, Mailchimp, and Credit Karma. It was founded in 1983 and is headquartered in Mountain View, California.
 Xero 
We chose Xero for really small "micro-business" that have just a few invoices and bills per month. For businesses of that size, Xero's "Early" subscription plan may be a good fit. At just $15 per month, it's limited to just 20 invoices (or quotes) and five bills per month. The plan also offers a receipt capture tool and a cashflow tool.
 Cloud-based Has mobile app Payroll integration with Gusto Third-party app marketplace Simple inventory management Limited reporting Fees charged for ACH payments Limited customer service 
Xero offers three monthly subscription options and a full-service payroll add-on:
 
The company offers 75% discounts for the first six months. The full-service payroll option is offered through Gusto and starts at an additional $40 per month, plus $6 per employee. You can try Gusto free for three months.
 
The Early plan limits usage and only allows entry for 20 invoices or quotes and five bills per month. This limited plan may be suitable for a micro-business with high-ticket transactions but only a few per month, such as a consulting or small service provider.
 
Both the Growing and Established plans offer unlimited invoices and bills. The only difference between the two is that the Established plan has additional features like multi-currency, expense management, and project costing. All three plans offer Hubdoc, a bill and receipt capture solution.
 
Xero was founded in 2006 in New Zealand and now has over 3.5 million subscribers worldwide. This accounting software is popular in New Zealand, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Xero has over 4,500 employees and is growing rapidly in the U.S., as well.
 FreshBooks 
We like FreshBooks for service-based businesses because it excels at producing proposals, tracking time on projects, and receiving payments—all key processes for service-based businesses. FreshBooks's primary function is sending, receiving, printing, and paying invoices, but it can also handle a business’s basic bookkeeping needs.
 Cloud-based User-friendly interface Third-party app integration Affordable Advanced invoicing features Reporting features not available in mobile app Additional users cost extra 
There are four different Freshbooks plans to choose, and businesses can get a 10% discount if they choose to pay yearly rather than monthly. Additionally, FreshBooks often offers discounts for your first months of membership.
 
The main difference between the four plans is the number of different clients that can be billed per month. In the Lite plan, up to five clients can be billed per month. In the Plus plan, up to 50 clients can be billed per month. In the Premium plan, unlimited clients can be billed per month.
 
The Select plan also does not have a limitation on the number of clients that can be billed per month but adds unique features. It costs an additional $10 per month for multiple team members to use the accounting software, and it includes the advanced payment feature for free ($20 extra each month with other plans), which allows users to charge a credit card in real-time or set up a recurring credit card charge for a client.
 
Many third-party app integrations are available, such as Gusto, G Suite, and more. A unique feature of FreshBooks is that invoices can be highly stylized and customized for a professional look and feel. FreshBooks is a great tool for budgeting out projects, sending estimates or proposals, and collecting customer payments.
 
Founded in 2003 in Toronto, FreshBooks started as just an invoicing tool. Over time, more features have been added, and as of 2023, FreshBooks has over 30 million users.
 
This is our top choice for part-time freelancers and independent contractors who primarily want to track their income and expenses for their tax returns. It's designed for business owners who file a Schedule C on their individual tax returns and need help separating business and personal transactions.
 QuickBooks Solopreneur replaces QuickBooks Self-Employed, which is no longer available to new subscribers. Existing Self-Employed subscribers can continue to use the older product. QuickBooks has also created a FAQ page that explains the differences between the two. Cloud-based Mobile app available Tracks mileage Differentiates between business and personal expenses Syncs with TurboTax Somewhat difficult to upgrade to QuickBooks Online Relatively expensive for limited tools 
QuickBooks Solopreneur is another Intuit product with a cloud-based online interface and a mobile app. This software was created to help freelancers stay organized each year for tax season. Features of QuickBooks Solopreneur include tracking mileage, sorting expenses, organizing receipts, and estimating and filing taxes through TurboTax.
 
There is a 50% discount for the first three months.
 
Solopreneur also gives you access to a tax expert to answer questions throughout the year and during tax season.
 
The mobile app makes it easy to track mileage while driving and capture photos of receipts for business expenses. Most accounting software is not designed to separate business transactions from personal transactions, but a special feature of QuickBooks Solopreneur provides an option to mark each transaction as business or personal. This is helpful for freelancers who don’t have a separate bank account for their business activity.
 What's the difference between QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Solopreneur? In short, Online is the more comprehensive and robust option, meant for businesses with lots of vendors, employees, and clients. Solopreneur lacks Online's reporting, inventory, and sales tracking tools. Both track expenses and can help you at tax time. If you're working a side hustle or run a micro business, Solopreneur can help you track receipts and expenses (and keep them separate from your non-business expenses), and it can help you meet your quarterly tax filing requirements. Wave 
Wave is a good choice for a service-based small business that sends simple invoices and doesn’t need to run payroll. Best of all, it's free (for the basics). At year-end, accountants can pull the necessary reports from Wave to prepare a business’s tax return.
 Free accounting and invoicing No transaction or billing limits Run multiple businesses in one account Unlimited number of users Mobile app available Integrations only through Zapier Higher fees for credit card payments Full-service payroll is limited to only 14 states Receipt scanning costs $8/month 
This free software includes the foundational accounting features that most small businesses need, such as income and expense tracking, financial reporting, sending invoices, and scanning receipts. These features can be accessed online or via the mobile app.
 
There's also a more robust "Pro" plan for $16 per month.
 
Wave makes its money to support its free offering on its payment gateway. To process a credit card payment from a customer, Wave charges 2.9% plus 60¢ per transaction for Visa, Mastercard, and Discover and 3.4% plus 60¢ per transaction for American Express. These fees are slightly higher than other accounting software. (The Pro plan includes 10 credit card transactions with no transaction or "swipe" fees per month.) Additionally, Wave charges 1% per transaction with a $1 minimum fee to process an ACH payment rather than a credit card.
 
Wave offers two payroll plans as an add-on service. The first plan is $20 per month plus $6 per employee or contractor. In this plan, Wave will process payroll and prepare payroll tax calculations, but the user is responsible for manually completing payroll tax forms and submitting tax payments. The second plan is $40 per month plus $6 per employee or contractor. In this plan, payroll is full-service, meaning that all tax filings and payments are managed by Wave. It is only available in 14 states.
 
Wave was founded in 2010 and is based in Toronto. Nine years later, it was purchased by H&R Block and has over 250 employees.
 
QuickBooks Online topped our list for its scalability, training resources, and mobile app. But micro-businesses may find their needs more affordably met by Xero, and self-employed individuals will appreciate the ability to categorize personal and business expenses with QuickBooks Solopreneur. Service-based businesses that want the best invoicing tools and customization will be best-served by FreshBooks. And if you’re looking for a free solution to a business’s invoicing and accounting needs, Wave is a good option.
 
Accounting software packages are specialized computer programs that help businesses track invoices, generate reports, and record and report financial transactions. Large firms may choose complex, customized accounting software packages that track inventory, manage accounts payable and accounts receivable, and handle payroll. For smaller businesses, off-the-shelf packages like those highlighted here can accomplish most or all of the firm's accounting needs.
 
Accounting software reduces the amount of time spent on manual data entry by allowing users to sync their business bank accounts and credit cards with the software. Once synced, bank transactions flow into the accounting software, which can be categorized into various accounts. This process can also reduce human error and make a time-consuming task more efficient.
 Most accounting software is easy to use, but a general understanding of accounting practices will help ensure that financial reports are prepared correctly. For this reason, many small business owners hire bookkeepers or accountants to maintain or review their books. Cloud-based accounting software allows businesses to share their accounting data with their bookkeepers or accountants. 
Many accounting software packages allow third-party application integrations. For example, if a business owner uses a point of sale (POS) system to capture sales transactions, the POS system could integrate with the accounting software to record specific transactions, sales tax liabilities, sales by subcategories, and more. In a service-based business, a time-tracking application could integrate with the accounting software to add labor to a client invoice.
 
Accounting and accounting software can often seem like dull chores that distract from the "real work" of running and growing a business, like marketing or sales or delivering your product or service. However, avoiding accounting can be a mistake, especially for businesses that have grown beyond the "micro-business" stage.
 
Accounting software can make the process more efficient and less tedious. And it can help your business in other, more strategic ways:
 
Accounting software can be divided into a handful of categories.
 
Widely available, general-purpose accounting software designed to be used by a broad range of businesses and organizations. This is the kind of software reviewed here. Customization options are few (if available at all). Some packages feature special functions and reports designed for specific industries. Software may be installed on business computers or delivered online via the internet ("cloud-based" software).
 
An ERP is a complex software package that combines all of a firm's systems, including accounting. It's primarily used by large enterprises.
 
For businesses with highly particular accounting, reporting, and other needs, a custom system may be required. Development time can be extensive, and the upfront cost can also be significant.
 
Start your search by understanding your business and what it needs from accounting software.
 
Depending on the accounting software you choose, you may have access to some of the following features: 
 
Freelancers and micro-business owners may not need accounting software if they outsource accounting tasks to a CPA. But in many cases, having a platform that keeps your income and expenses organized is still helpful. 
 
You can rely on free software, like Wave, to handle your accounting and invoicing needs. Other types of free software may exist for other business needs, but you’ll lose the benefit of having everything in one place. 
 
You can manage your business accounting the old-fashioned way, with spreadsheets that track every aspect of your business.
 
Investopedia collected and analyzed scores of key data points from leading accounting software providers to identify the most important factors for readers choosing accounting software for small businesses. We used this data to review each company based on cost, scalability, reputation, accounting features, and other factors to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to ensure our readers make the right decision for their needs. Investopedia launched in 1999 and has been helping readers find the best accounting software for small businesses since 2020.
 Small business accounting software ranges from $0 to $150 or more per month. Basic plans are in roughly the $0 to $40 per month range and are a great place to start. With a basic plan, a small business will be able to categorize income and expenses, send invoices, and prepare financial reports. As a business grows, most software is scalable, and a plan can be easily upgraded to meet new business needs, but it will cost more than a basic package. The cheapest accounting software among the services we reviewed is the free offering from Wave. The kind of accounting software a small business chooses to use depends on multiple factors. A freelancer or part-time consultant might need something basic or free, and a growing business might choose software that can be easily upgraded. QuickBooks is a popular choice because the company offers a wide range of products. Yes, QuickBooks is useful for many small businesses, particularly because it is scaleable. That means it can grow with your business. It can also integrate with third-party applications. Additionally, QuickBooks offers a 30-day free trial so you can test out the program to see if it fits your business's needs. For businesses that don't need to run a payroll, Wave is the easiest program to use. It allows service-based businesses to send simple invoices and pull reports to prepare a yearly tax return. Wave is also free and does not have transaction or billing limits. If you do want to add payroll services, it starts at $20 per month plus $6 per employee. A per transaction fee is charged for accepting payments as well. Yes, free accounting software is available, including Wave, which is featured here. Additional services offered by Wave, beyond essential small business accounting needs like payroll and credit card processing, come with fees. Yes, absolutely. You can choose an alternate accounting software, such as one of those we've reviewed here. Or you can roll your own spreadsheet-based accounting system using Excel or Google Sheets. You can set up a simple small business accounting system using Excel (or Google Sheets). Your system won't be as robust as QuickBooks (for example, your spreadsheets won't be able to connect with your bank to automatically pull transactions), but if your accounting needs are basic, a spreadsheet-based system can work. You'll find templates online to help you get started. Cloud-based accounting software systems like QuickBooks online aim to protect client data via multiple layers of data encryption and other resources. First, client data is encrypted during transmittal via SSL. Next, providers protect the data on their servers with encryption, firewalls, and other methods. 
We looked at 19 accounting software companies with specialized products for small businesses before choosing our top five software options. We considered cost, scalability, ease of use, reputation, and accounting features.
 
Reputation was a key consideration because the longer a company has been around, the more likely that any technological glitches have been resolved, which ensures that a company’s important financial information will be reported accurately. Scalability was the next most important consideration because as a company grows, its accounting needs grow as well, and transferring financial information to new software can be tedious.
 
Finally, ease of use and collaboration for business owners, employees, and accountants was considered because it’s important for all users to be able to access and review the financials simultaneously.
 AndreyPopov / Getty Images SMB Group. "What’s Ahead for SMBs in Financial Management." Intuit. "About Intuit." Gusto. "Flexible Plans and Features. Honest Pricing. No Hidden Fees." Xero. "We Help Small Businesses Thrive Worldwide." FreshBooks. "The FreshBooks Story." Wave. "Online Payments = On-Time Payments." Wave. "Payroll Software That Pays Off." Wave. "We Are Wave." PWC Bookkeeping Connect. "Five Benefits of Adopting Bookkeeping Software." Accounting Tools. "Types of Accounting Software." Intuit QuickBooks. "Accounting Software Selection: 7 Factors to Consider for 2023." Wave. "Everything You Need. Nothing You Don’t." Oracle Netsuite. "How to Use Excel for Accounting (and When to Level Up)." QuickBooks. "Security Information."