If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on April 16, 2023
 
By: Maurie Backman
 Writer  KEY POINTS The amount of money you're required to put down on your home purchase during your closing will depend on your mortgage lender. A 2022 survey by the National Association of Realtors found that 35% of consumers thought they'd need 16% to 20% for a down payment. But many lenders will accept a 10% down payment, and others might agree to even less. If you're looking to buy a home, you may be inclined to keep your down payment to a minimum. That way, you'll have more funds available for things like moving costs, furniture, and home renovations once you move in. But making a smaller down payment on a home has its drawbacks. Here are a few you should know about.




 The less money you put down on your home, the higher you can expect your monthly mortgage payments to be. Higher payments could put a strain on your budget, so that's something to consider when determining what down payment to make. If you take out a conventional mortgage and don't put 20% down at closing, you'll be hit with private mortgage insurance, or PMI. That might sound like something that benefits you, but it isn't. Rather, PMI is a premium that's usually tacked onto your monthly mortgage payments, and its purpose is to protect your lender (not you) in case you fall behind on your payments. The cost of PMI is generally 0.5% to 1% of your loan amount, so it's not insignificant. For a $300,000 mortgage, 1% PMI leaves you paying an extra $250 a month. So all told, a smaller down payment could cost you more money in the form of PMI. The less money you put down on a home initially, the longer it's going to take you to build up equity. Home equity is measured as the difference between your home's market value and your mortgage balance. Having more of it is a good thing, since you can borrow against it as needed. And also, if you're forced to sell your home suddenly (say, to move for a job), having more equity puts you in a better position. The amount of money you decide to put down on your home should hinge on: If you can get to the 20% mark for your down payment, you'll avoid PMI, and there's a lot of benefit to doing that. But if you can't manage a 20% down payment, don't sweat it. Just don't automatically assume that you're best off putting down the lowest amount your lender will accept. You may be able to get away with a 5% down payment. But putting down 10% might better work to your benefit. This credit card is not just good – it’s so exceptional that our experts use it personally. It features a lengthy 0% intro APR period, a cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee! Click here to read our full review for free and apply in just 2 minutes.   
Maurie Backman is a personal finance writer covering topics ranging from Social Security to credit cards to mortgages. She also has an editing background and has hosted personal finance podcasts.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.