— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. If your patio is in need of a last-minute glow-up ahead of Memorial Day 2023, don't fret. There's plenty of early Memorial Day deals on patio furniture we love and you can snatch the savings just in time for your three-day weekend barbecue plans. Whether you want to add some new loungers to your pool deck or an outdoor dining set to your balcony, we found deals on all that and more at Amazon, Lowe's and Target. Keep scrolling to find out how to brighten up your backyard, front porch or patio on a major budget. Add a touch of comfort to any outside space with the Best Choice Products 7-piece modular outdoor sectional. This wicker patio set comes with six chairs, pillows, a matching coffee table and seat clips, so you can easily arrange the sectional to fit your space. Usually priced at $899.99, you can pick up the patio set for as little as $699.99 at Amazon ahead of Memorial Day 2023. ➤Shop the 60+ best Memorial Day deals at Amazon: Save on Apple, Ninja, Nectar and so much more If you're in the market for some new patio furniture, Memorial Day is one of the best times to shop. Many retailers offer limited-time markdowns on outdoor dining sets, lounge chairs, umbrellas and more during Memorial Day weekend to help you get your outdoor space ready for summertime entertaining. If you're not sure where to start, we recommend checking out the Memorial Day deals at Walmart and Lowe's—keep scrolling for some of our favorite picks. ➤Streaming deal: Get Hulu for just $2 per month for three months with this National Streaming Day deal Here's the deal: Subscribe to our Perks and Rec newsletter for daily savings on all the things you want and need. Memorial Day 2023 will be observed on Monday, May 29. The federal holiday is historically recognized on the last Monday of May and honors fallen U.S. military personnel.  Tons of early Memorial Day sales on patio furniture and more are live right now. We expect to see even more Memorial Day deals drop this week and during Memorial Day weekend. Memorial Day is a great time to shop for big ticket items, like mattresses, smart TVs and patio furniture. The three-day holiday weekend also historically sees Black Friday-level markdowns on many of our favorite home essentials and electronics. If you're looking for sales on more affordable items, don't worry—you'll still find plenty of markdowns on fashion, kitchen tools, beauty products, pet essentials and more. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.