— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. Memorial Day 2023 is less than a week away, and that means barbecues and outdoor shindigs could be in your near future. In order to prepare, head to Lowe's today and start saving big on fire pits, patio furniture, power tools, kitchen appliances and so much more. ➤Memorial Day TV deals: Shop the best 30+ Memorial Day TV deals at Amazon, Walmart and Best Buy Keep scrolling and find some of our favorite deals on outdoor grills, mowers and faucets from Lowe's ahead of summer 2023. In need of new appliances this summer? You can save big on a Reviewed-approved dryer from Lowe's right now during the retailer's Memorial Day sale. Get the Whirlpool electric dryer today at Lowe's for $201 off, bringing the item's $699 list price is just $498 for a limited time. Our reviewers loved the simplicity of this Whirlpool appliance and enjoyed its sensor-based cycle that lets you control how dry you want your clothes. Relax out on your patio this Memorial Day in a super comfortable hammock chair from Lowe's. The wicker chair comes in six colors and has a cozy gray cushion, making it the perfect spot to sit outside. Plus, the item's $294 list price is $199.99 right now, as Lowe's is offering $94.01 off the chair as part of the brand's Memorial Day sale. ➤REI Anniversary sale: Save up to 30% on activewear, camping gear and so much more ➤Gaming laptop deals: 10 best gaming laptop deals we're shopping during Amazon Gaming Week Memorial Day 2023 will be observed on Monday, May 29. The federal holiday is historically recognized on the last Monday of May and honors fallen U.S. military personnel. Memorial Day is a great time to shop for big-ticket items at Walmart, Best Buy, Lowe's and more! During the three-day weekend, you'll find epic discounts on kitchen essentials, tech, furniture and more. If you're looking for sales on other home essentials, we're also tracking incredible deals on mattresses, patio furniture and home appliances. Whether you're in the market for a deck chair or a brand new bathroom vanity, Lowe's has you covered with its current Memorial Day sale. We love the home improvement brand's deals on Reviewed-approved appliances like this Whirlpool electric dryer as well as its discounts on comfy patio furniture. Ready to start saving hundreds at Lowe's? Shop the Memorial Day deals now for markdowns on everything from lawn mowers to gas fire pits. Here's the deal: Subscribe to our Perks and Rec newsletter for daily savings on all the things you want and need. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.