Take a central role at the Bank of Canada with our current opportunities and scholarships. We aim to build confidence in the safety and reliability of payment service providers’ services while protecting end users from specific risks. We’re taking steps to better understand the impacts of climate change on the economy and to reduce our environmental footprint. View the latest data on the Government of Canada's purchases and holdings of Canadian Mortgage Bonds. See more We’ve started the design process for the new $20 bank note featuring His Majesty King Charles III. See more about the new note and our design process. Monetary policy is working to reduce price pressures in the Canadian economy. Core inflation is expected to ease gradually, while the path of CPI inflation will be bumpy. Inflation returns sustainably to the 2% target in the second half of 2025. See more Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Carolyn Rogers, Senior Deputy Governor (10:30 (ET) approx.). Release of the Monetary Policy Report – Press conference by Governor Tiff Macklem and Carolyn Rogers, Senior Deputy Governor (10:30 (ET) approx.). These forecasts are provided to Governing Council in preparation for monetary policy decisions. They are released once a year with a five-year lag. Read up on our current and past bank notes and find even more information on related websites. Learn about the newest generation of Canadian banknotes. Canada’s polymer bank notes celebrate achievements at home, around the world, and in space. See, interact with and share the $10 bank note commemorating Canada's 150th anniversary of Confederation. Learn about the unique and shared design elements of the $20 note that celebrates the historic reign of Queen Elizabeth II.  This series (issued 2001-06) incorporated security features never before seen in Canadian bank notes, and the designs celebrated our culture, history and accomplishments. The 1986 series featured different Birds of Canada on the back of each denomination. This series was designed with security features to counter the colour photocopiers of that era.  A brief historical overview of the first four series of notes issued by the Bank of Canada and the two commemorative notes issued in 1935 and 1967. Since issuing its first series of bank notes in 1935, the Bank of Canada has issued four commemorative bank notes. Each commemorative note marks an important milestone for the reigning monarch or a defining moment in Canadian history. Expand your understanding of spending and saving, discover your place in the economy and explore a world-class currency collection. The Bank of Canada only issues bank notes. If you have questions about Canada’s coins, visit the Royal Canadian Mint. We use cookies to help us keep improving this website.