With the NFL’s schedule release comes the opportunity to start planning road trips for the season. For the 49ers there are a handful of good road cities on their calendar this season, but not all road trips are created equal. The holiday schedule, plus potential weather issues depending on the time of year a game takes place can either make or break the quality of a potential road trip. We went through and ranked the 49ers’ road games through the lens of a person planning to go watch the team on the road this year: Week 2 at Los Angeles Rams (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images) Does this even count as a road trip for 49ers fans in the Bay Area? Anyway, it’s in mid-September so it’s liable to be super hot and that doesn’t sound like that much fun to see a team the 49ers visit every season. Week 12 at Seattle Seahawks (Photo by Christopher Mast/Getty Images) This is nothing against Lumen Field or the city of Seattle. The Pacific Northwest is for the most part a really nice place to spend a weekend, and the atmosphere at that stadium is going to be really fun. Traveling around the Thanksgiving holiday stinks though. Hard pass unless it’s part of a longer vacation where travel doesn’t fall in the days leading up to or following Thanksgiving. Week 17 at Washington Commanders (Photo by Scott Taetsch/Getty Images) Again, this is nothing against our nation’s capital. DC is a really terrific place to hang out. Two things push it to our second-worst road trip. First, it’s probably going to be colder than heck with the game happening on New Year’s Eve day. Second, FedEx Field is not great, nor is it close to downtown DC. Week 15 at Arizona Cardinals (Photo by Christian Petersen/Getty Images) The Phoenix area is pretty underrated. There’s good food, good hiking, a good basketball team in the area, and mid-December is a good time to visit the Valley. It doesn’t get crazy cold, but you’ll also avoid the unbearably high temps that come for most of the year. One gripe – Glendale isn’t super close to Phoenix so there’s a little bit of a jaunt to get to the stadium. Getting to AZ this time of year though beats going if they’re down there earlier in the season. Week 10 at Jacksonville Jaguars (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack) It’s pretty rare the 49ers visit the Jaguars. It’s even rarer that they do it when both teams are good. The uniqueness alone might make this a trek worth making. Jacksonville wouldn’t be a bad trip, it just doesn’t quite stack up to some of the other matchups coming. Week 6 at Cleveland Browns Scott Galvin-USA TODAY Sports Cleveland gets a bad rap, but there’s at least good beer there and the possibility of a playoff baseball game if the Guardians ever get things figured out this season. Fans will likely get really good, crisp Fall weather in mid-October while hanging out with a good football fan base. Cleveland may not be a long-term vacation destination, but don’t sleep on it as a place to chill for a weekend. Week 1 at Pittsburgh Steelers Philip G. Pavely-USA TODAY Sports A season opener at Acrisure Stadium? Yes please! The vibes in that place are going to be incredible, and by all accounts it’s a good stadium in a good city. A bonus here is the Pirates are in town the day after the 49ers-Steelers game which means a trip to what’s regarded as one of the best ballparks in Major League Baseball can be squeezed in if one were so inclined. Week 7 at Minnesota Vikings Matt Krohn-USA TODAY Sports Monday Night Football games are just a little bit different. The energy is excellent and the Vikings play in a beautiful new stadium that isn’t far from downtown Minneapolis. Plus there’s the added benefit of the mid-to-late October weather that will only make it feel even more like football season. Week 13 at Philadelphia Eagles (Photo by Tim Nwachukwu/Getty Images) Philly is a terrific city. The fans are pretty nuts, so maybe keep a low profile, but being in the building for the NFC championship game rematch would be a blast. Story originally appeared on Niners Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The Yahoo Fantasy experts give their thoughts on how to use fantasy football rankings when making draft and lineup decisions. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. What fantasy football draft strategy is right for you? Our team outlines several different approaches to building your roster. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts.