Meris is calling its new MercuryX the most flexible and and powerful reverb in a pedal format, and from some of the brains who were involved in Line 6 and Strymon, that kind of talk carries the weight of reputation. It boasts eight custom reverb alogorithms and combines those with the impressively advanced  LVX architecture we saw on Meris's Modular Delay System.  The controls are bolstered by Meris's stunning menu screen graphics, with parameters that can be controlled by the C1 and C2 knobs beneath. This becomes the gateway to deep-dive editing with your reverb sounds, in addition to scrolling through presets and your own favourite sounds with the C3 control to the right of the screen. The key to the MercuryX Reverb's power seems to be how much you can customise each varied algorithm's 'structure' through modular effects, including preamps, filters, pitch-shifting and modulation. There's pre-delay time and feedback editing too which starts to blur the lines between reverb and delay. It's an ambient tweaker's dream machine and the demo above sounds pretty spectacular. As the follow-up to Meris's acclaimed Mercury 7 there's are familiar Ultraplate and Catherdra algorithms, but there's six others too, including three from the world's most expensive reverb pedal, the Chase Bliss x Meris collaboration CXM 1978. It certainly sounds like a home recording and bedroom fiddlers' paradise from these demos, rather than the average gigging player's workhorse reverb pedal. But we'd wager the market for the former group is far bigger, and this could be some serious competition for the likes of the Strymon BigSky. The MercuryX is $599 and available now at Meris New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.