Across social media, some iPhone 14 Pro and ‌iPhone 14‌ Pro Max users are reporting that horizontal lines are flashing across their iPhone display when the device is being turned on, with no clear reason why or how to fix it. MacRumors forum user Infernoqt and Reddit user u/1LastOutlawOn one thread on Reddit, dozens of ‌iPhone 14‌ Pro users are reporting that one or more green and yellow lines may flash across the screen before disappearing a few seconds later when the device is being turned on. According to those same users, Apple Support has informed them the issue is not a result of a hardware defect but is a bug in iOS 16. According to users on Reddit, the Apple Support forums (1,2,3), and the MacRumors forum, the issue seems to have started following the iOS 16.2 update, although some users report the problem even occurring on older versions of iOS 16. One user on Reddit claims an Apple engineer informed them over the phone that Apple is working on a software patch for the issue, but the exact details are unknown. Apple is currently testing iOS 16.3 with developers and public beta testers, but the update isn't expected to launch until early next year. The latest version of iOS 16 is iOS 16.2, which included several new features, including Apple Music Sing, Apple's new Freeform app, and more.  Get weekly top MacRumors stories in your inbox. Our comprehensive guide highlighting every major new addition in iOS 17, plus how-tos that walk you through using the new features. Update now for a number of important security fixes. Get the most out your iPhone 15 with our complete guide to all the new features. A deep dive into new features in macOS Sonoma, big and small. Updates to Mail, Photos, Messages, and more, with Apple Intelligence features throughout. iPhone Mirroring, Safari improvements, new Passwords app, and Apple Intelligence features throughout. Apple Intelligence features, Smart Script handwriting refinement, Calculator app, and more. New hand gestures, rearrange apps in Home View, larger Mac Virtual Display, and more. 6 hours ago by Tim Hardwick 4 days ago by Juli Clover 4 days ago by Tim Hardwick 5 days ago by Tim Hardwick 6 days ago by Tim Hardwick   MacRumors attracts a broad audience of both consumers and professionals interested in the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and other Apple platforms.