Comment Blockchain games have grown exponentially over the past year as a new and innovative alternative to the traditional gaming world. While the two areas have been widely separated, some market players see an integrated future. “I was around in the very early days of mobile gaming, right after the iPhone came out, the App Store came out,” Chris Akhavan, chief gaming officer at NFT marketplace Magic Eden, said to TechCrunch. “I remember the attitude back then amongst traditional gaming companies was that mobile games were stupid.” These gaming conglomerates viewed mobile games as “really small, unimpressive games” that people wouldn’t want to play, Akhavan said. “Largely, a lot of the big traditional gaming companies ignored mobile [games] for the first couple of years and that created opportunities for new mobile gaming companies like King, which is now owned by Activision, to create that margin and grow substantially.” Bored Apes creator Yuga Labs appoints Activision’s Daniel Alegre as CEO  As that happened, big gaming companies became hyperfocused on the mobile gaming space and began acquiring smaller games to compete, Akhavan noted. “We think that the same journey is going to happen in web3,” Akhavan said. “Over the last year, there’s been multiple billions of dollars invested in new web3 gaming studios and they’ll lead the charge here in creating the ecosystem and showing the true sides of the opportunities, which is going to be massive.”  Akhavan was hired by Magic Eden just two weeks ago, an indicator that the leading Solana-based NFT marketplace is trying to push itself further into the gaming space. The platform now offers NFTs across Solana, Ethereum and Polygon blockchains. “At the end of the day, we are a marketplace for anything that has digital asset ownership,” Akhavan said. “Web3 gives the ability for creators to earn value and have more true ownership over games.” Last week, Magic Eden expanded its Launchpad and marketplace to support the layer-2 blockchain Polygon in an effort to become more multichain and expand to new communities, Zhuoxun Yin, co-founder of Magic Eden, said to TechCrunch. “From day one, we’ve thought of ourselves as a multichain NFT marketplace,” Yin said. “If you look at the way NFTs are proliferating across the different chains, different use cases are developing more strongly on the chains. So it’s a must as a platform that supports creators to support different use cases.” Magic Eden’s NFT platform plans to bring games to the Polygon blockchain by working with developers like Shatterpoint and Infinite Drive in December. In early 2023, it aims to team up with Taunt Battleworld, Planet Mojo and Kakao Games. Shatterpoint was developed by BlockGames and Estoty, a European gaming studio with over 50 million active monthly players, Magic Eden said. Even though crypto markets may be hurting, blockchain gaming is still pouring in money. In the past 30 days, the total balance, which is the total value of assets in the decentralized applications (dApps) smart contracts, across the five largest blockchain games reached about $1.327 billion, according to DappRadar data. The games, BinaryX, Axie Infinity, Galactic Arena DeFi Kingdoms and The Sandbox, consisted of 170,262 unique active wallets, which typically equates to how many players are interacting with the game. “Most industry-shifting events are always led by new and nimble teams,” Yin said. “That’s what we’re seeing. A lot of the gaming teams that have been experimenting in the past 12 months have been web3-native.” To date, Magic Eden has worked with Animoca Brands, nWay and Kakao, among others, and has launched over 150 web3 games through those partnerships, Akhavan noted. Since traditional game companies learned a lesson in being late to mobile, neither they nor Magic Eden is going to be late here, Akhavan said. “They’re going to move faster as they start to see real traction in the space.” By the middle of next year, Akhavan thinks the industry will start to see “really awesome blockchain games come out that truly demonstrate the potential of this technology to transport gaming.” Then what, you might ask? “The big Web 2.0 gaming companies will jump into the space shortly after,” Akhavan added. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Powered by WordPress VIP