Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A year ago, veteran guard Gary Harris wasn’t participating in Magic training camp due to surgery in his left knee.Injuries, in general, largely caused a bumpy start to the 2022-23 season as Orlando opened 5-20 without Harris, Cole Anthony and Markelle Fultz.But this preseason is seemingly different — not only for Harris but the entire team, which opened camp at full health for the first time under coach Jamahl Mosley. That’s led to smoother practices.“It’s been night and day since last training camp,” Harris said. “I wasn’t even in training camp last year — I was coming back from surgery. Just being out there on the floor with the guys, I just remember the first year we had to do a lot of stopping defensively.“A lot of stuff has carried over since last year and everybody’s familiar with each other. Everybody’s grown up and everybody’s mature.”Mosley said Thursday the team opened up things a bit more on Day 3 and ran full court rather than half-court drills.Given the health of the roster, the group’s continuity and that it is Mosley’s third season, the Magic coach said he has more options because of his team’s expanded basketball IQ. Last year’s offense ran more smoothly when Orlando ran set plays. Where they must improve is playing in flow (without play calls) and quickly identifying and exploiting mismatches.“We can run the same thing but now they’re starting to make the reads that they found last year where a defense can take one thing away, they can make the adjustment,” Mosley said. “They’ve done a great job of that, recognizing it early.

“We keep the same simple sets but how do they get so comfortable in it that they’re making the reads themselves? That’s what we’re asking these guys to do.”Magic rookies Black, Howard receiving guidance from vets in 1st campMosley said the team is holding itself accountable and that’s how the team will continue to improve.Harris stressed accountability as well when discussing practice.“We’re all locked in and working towards the same goal,” he said. “I’m not saying we weren’t doing that last year, but going through the season last year with the ups and downs, starting off so slow and making that play-in push, the guys came into camp motivated.“The guys know the goal is to make the playoffs. We’re all pushing each other and holding each other accountable.”Email Jason Beede at jbeede@orlandosentinel.com or follow him on X, known as Twitter, at @therealBeede. Injuries, in general, largely caused a bumpy start to the 2022-23 season as Orlando opened 5-20 without Harris, Cole Anthony and Markelle Fultz. But this preseason is seemingly different — not only for Harris but the entire team, which opened camp at full health for the first time under coach Jamahl Mosley. That’s led to smoother practices. “It’s been night and day since last training camp,” Harris said. “I wasn’t even in training camp last year — I was coming back from surgery. Just being out there on the floor with the guys, I just remember the first year we had to do a lot of stopping defensively. “A lot of stuff has carried over since last year and everybody’s familiar with each other. Everybody’s grown up and everybody’s mature.” Mosley said Thursday the team opened up things a bit more on Day 3 and ran full court rather than half-court drills. Given the health of the roster, the group’s continuity and that it is Mosley’s third season, the Magic coach said he has more options because of his team’s expanded basketball IQ. Last year’s offense ran more smoothly when Orlando ran set plays. Where they must improve is playing in flow (without play calls) and quickly identifying and exploiting mismatches. “We can run the same thing but now they’re starting to make the reads that they found last year where a defense can take one thing away, they can make the adjustment,” Mosley said. “They’ve done a great job of that, recognizing it early. “We keep the same simple sets but how do they get so comfortable in it that they’re making the reads themselves? That’s what we’re asking these guys to do.” Magic rookies Black, Howard receiving guidance from vets in 1st camp  Mosley said the team is holding itself accountable and that’s how the team will continue to improve. Harris stressed accountability as well when discussing practice. “We’re all locked in and working towards the same goal,” he said. “I’m not saying we weren’t doing that last year, but going through the season last year with the ups and downs, starting off so slow and making that play-in push, the guys came into camp motivated. “The guys know the goal is to make the playoffs. We’re all pushing each other and holding each other accountable.” Email Jason Beede at jbeede@orlandosentinel.com or follow him on X, known as Twitter, at @therealBeede. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel