NBA legend on campus as chairman of dining services provider Sodexo Magic NBA legend on campus as chairman of dining services provider Sodexo Magic The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. NBA legend on campus as chairman of dining services provider Sodexo Magic NBA legend Magic Johnson surprised Morgan State University students Monday morning with a visit to tour the campus and see the newly renovated Thurgood Marshall dining hall. The Hall of Famer danced with the band and took pictures with fans, but his visit was more than just a photo opportunity. Johnson was on campus as the chairman of Sodexo Magic, the dining services provider that won a contract with the university in 2020. "They just opened up this incredible new cafeteria, and so I'm just happy to be a part of coming here, that my business is here. We have a great team that's right here to take care of young people every single day. I'm blessed about that," Johnson said. Morgan President David Wilson said students asked for a change. "We want to make sure that we have different variety and options for the young people here on campus," Wilson said. The five-year, $45 million agreement includes facility upgrades and student-friendly meal plans. Johnson added that Sodexo even offers training for people who want to become chefs. His tour, of course, included some words of wisdom. "I was one of those guys who always got turned down a lot of times, sometimes because of the color of my skin, but I stuck with it," Johnson said. "This is why I came here, to high-five and take pictures and to inspire them and let them know I came from the same background as them. I started off Irving Johnson, and with a lot of hard work, turned into Magic Johnson." Johnson added that this will not be the last time he visits the northeast Baltimore campus. "Normally, when I have a contract like this, I don't just show up one time. I'll be back many times. So, that's the blessing of this. And, I'm going to the game tonight, so it's great," Johnson said. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.