
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  New Delhi, March 27, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market is flourishing because of a high demand for hybrid vehicle powertrains and favorable initiatives by governments across countries. BlueWeave Consulting, a leading strategic consulting and market research firm, in its recent study, expects global   hybrid vehicle powertrain component market   size to zoom at a robust CAGR of 28.22% during the forecast period between 2023 and 2029. Major growth drivers for global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market include rising demand for vehicles that are both fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly, as well as increasing fuel costs. Hybrid powertrain components are utilized in hybrid vehicles to enhance fuel efficiency and provide power. Likewise, government regulations aimed at reducing carbon emissions, significant investments in charging infrastructure development, and an increasing demand for green vehicles are also driving the market growth. Also, technology advancements have led to the development of more efficient and reliable powertrain components, which are expected to contribute to the market's growth during the forecast period. However, shortage of semiconductors in the global market is anticipated to restrain the growth of the market.   Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market – Overview   A hybrid vehicle powertrain component is a combination of mechanical, electrical, and electronic systems that work together to power a hybrid vehicle. It includes the components that convert the energy stored in the battery or fuel cell into mechanical power that propels the vehicle. Hybrid vehicle powertrain components typically consist of an electric motor, battery or fuel cell, power electronics, transmission or gearbox, and other auxiliary components, such as regenerative braking systems and cooling systems. The powertrain components in a hybrid vehicle are designed to work in a highly integrated manner to optimize fuel efficiency and reduce emissions while still providing the necessary power and performance for the vehicle. The hybrid vehicle powertrain component market includes the production and sale of these components for use in hybrid vehicles.   Sample Request @       Impact of COVID-19 on   Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market   COVID-19 had a detrimental impact on the hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. The pandemic caused disruptions in the supply chain, manufacturing operations, and a decline in demand for hybrid vehicles. The global lockdowns and travel restrictions led to a reduction in production capacity and disrupted the supply chain of components and raw materials. As a result, the production of hybrid vehicles was delayed, leading to a decline in sales and revenue for manufacturers. Also, the pandemic caused a decline in consumer demand for hybrid vehicles as the economic uncertainty led to a decrease in purchasing power. Many customers postponed their plans to buy a hybrid vehicle due to financial constraints, which resulted in a drop in sales. However, the pandemic has also brought opportunities for the hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. The shift towards remote work and the increased focus on sustainability have led to a growing interest in hybrid and electric vehicles. The pandemic has also led to increased government support and incentives for the adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles, which could help to drive the market growth.   Please Visit the Press Release:      Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market   – By Component   Based on component, global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market is divided into Battery, Motor, Controller, Engine, and Transmission segments. The battery segment holds the highest share in the global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. Hybrid vehicles rely on a combination of electric motor and internal combustion engine (ICE), and the battery is an essential component that powers the electric motor. It is responsible for storing and providing energy to the electric motor, thereby reducing the reliance on the internal combustion engine and improving the fuel efficiency of the vehicle. The increasing demand for hybrid vehicles has led to a surge in demand for batteries, and battery manufacturers are investing in research and development to improve the efficiency and durability of batteries used in hybrid vehicles. Moreover, governments across the world are offering subsidies and incentives to promote the adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles, which is expected to drive the growth of the battery segment in the global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market.   Competitive Landscape   Major players operating in global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market include Robert Bosch GmbH, BorgWarner Inc., Magna International Inc., Hitachi Automotive Systems Ltd, Cummins Inc., ZF Friedrichshafen AG, Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Schaeffler AG, Continental AG, Marelli Holdings Co. Ltd, Tianjin Santroll, Allison Technologies, Bosch, ALTe Technology, and Voith. To further enhance their market share, these companies employ various strategies, including mergers and acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, license agreements, and new product launches.   don't miss the business opportunity in the   global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market   . consult our analysts to gain crucial insights and facilitate your business growth.   The in-depth analysis of the report provides information about growth potential, upcoming trends, and statistics of Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market. It also highlights the factors driving forecasts of total market size. The report promises to provide recent technology trends in Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market and industry insights to help decision-makers make sound strategic decisions. Furthermore, the report also analyzes the growth drivers, challenges, and competitive dynamics of the market.    Recent Developments      In May 2021  - Cosworth, a UK-based company specialized in high-performance internal combustion engines and powertrains, completed the acquisition of Delta, a specialist in electrified powertrain. The acquisition allows Cosworth to expand its capabilities and meet the changing needs of its clients as they transition to hybrid, electric, and fuel cell configurations.     Scope of the Report       Attributes     Details      Years Considered   Historical Data – 2019–2022     Base Year – 2022     Estimated Year – 2023     Forecast Period – 2023–2029     Facts Covered   Revenue in USD Billion     Market Coverage   North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East and Africa     Product/ Service Segmentation   Vehicle Type, Propulsion, Component, Region     Key Players   Robert Bosch GmbH, BorgWarner Inc., Magna International Inc., Hitachi Automotive Systems Ltd, Cummins Inc., ZF Friedrichshafen AG, Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Schaeffler AG, Continental AG, Marelli Holdings Co. Ltd, Tianjin Santroll, Allison Technologies, Bosch, ALTe Technology, Voith      By Vehicle Type     Passenger Car   Medium & Heavy Commercial Vehicle (M&HCV)   Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)     By Propulsion     HEV   PHEV     By Component     Battery   Motor   Controller   Engine   Transmission     By Region     North America   Europe   Asia Pacific (APAC)   Latin America (LATAM)   Middle East and Africa (MEA)      Please Find Below Some Related Topics:      retrofitted electric three-wheeler market - global size, share, trend analysis, opportunity and forecast report, 2019–2029    hybrid vehicle powertrain component market - global size, share, trend analysis, opportunity and forecast report, 2019–2029    car wash systems market - global size, share, trend analysis, opportunity and forecast report, 2019–2029    colombia tire market - size, share, trend analysis, opportunity and forecast report, 2019–2029    hungary tire market - size, share, trend analysis, opportunity and forecast report, 2019–2029     About Us   BlueWeave Consulting provides comprehensive Market Intelligence (MI) Solutions to businesses regarding various products and services online and offline. We offer all-inclusive market research reports by analyzing qualitative and quantitative data to boost the performance of your business solutions. BlueWeave has built its reputation by delivering quality inputs and nourishing long-lasting relationships with its clients. We are one of the promising digital MI solutions companies providing agile assistance to make your business endeavors successful.   Contact Us:     BlueWeave Consulting & Research Pvt. Ltd     +1 866 658 6826 | +1 425 320 4776 | +44 1865 60 0662            Tags hybrid vehicle powertrain hybrid vehicle market research company automotive industry report automotive technology Related Links   estonia tire market   latvia tire market   kenya tire market   automotive blind spot detection market   track geometry measurement system market   aerial ladder rescue vehicle market    asia-pacific golf cart market   light electric vehicles market   electric utility vehicle (euv) market   botswana tire market   angola tire market   europe construction equipment market   weigh in motion (wim) market   automotive traction motor market   india automotive sensors market   asia-pacific two-wheeler tire market    automotive tensioner market    bahrain tire market   underground mining tire market   djibouti tire market   MENAFN27032023004107003653ID1105874424 New Delhi, March 27, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market is flourishing because of a high demand for hybrid vehicle powertrains and favorable initiatives by governments across countries. BlueWeave Consulting, a leading strategic consulting and market research firm, in its recent study, expects global   hybrid vehicle powertrain component market   size to zoom at a robust CAGR of 28.22% during the forecast period between 2023 and 2029. Major growth drivers for global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market include rising demand for vehicles that are both fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly, as well as increasing fuel costs. Hybrid powertrain components are utilized in hybrid vehicles to enhance fuel efficiency and provide power. Likewise, government regulations aimed at reducing carbon emissions, significant investments in charging infrastructure development, and an increasing demand for green vehicles are also driving the market growth. Also, technology advancements have led to the development of more efficient and reliable powertrain components, which are expected to contribute to the market's growth during the forecast period. However, shortage of semiconductors in the global market is anticipated to restrain the growth of the market.   Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market – Overview   A hybrid vehicle powertrain component is a combination of mechanical, electrical, and electronic systems that work together to power a hybrid vehicle. It includes the components that convert the energy stored in the battery or fuel cell into mechanical power that propels the vehicle. Hybrid vehicle powertrain components typically consist of an electric motor, battery or fuel cell, power electronics, transmission or gearbox, and other auxiliary components, such as regenerative braking systems and cooling systems. The powertrain components in a hybrid vehicle are designed to work in a highly integrated manner to optimize fuel efficiency and reduce emissions while still providing the necessary power and performance for the vehicle. The hybrid vehicle powertrain component market includes the production and sale of these components for use in hybrid vehicles.   Sample Request @       Impact of COVID-19 on   Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market   COVID-19 had a detrimental impact on the hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. The pandemic caused disruptions in the supply chain, manufacturing operations, and a decline in demand for hybrid vehicles. The global lockdowns and travel restrictions led to a reduction in production capacity and disrupted the supply chain of components and raw materials. As a result, the production of hybrid vehicles was delayed, leading to a decline in sales and revenue for manufacturers. Also, the pandemic caused a decline in consumer demand for hybrid vehicles as the economic uncertainty led to a decrease in purchasing power. Many customers postponed their plans to buy a hybrid vehicle due to financial constraints, which resulted in a drop in sales. However, the pandemic has also brought opportunities for the hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. The shift towards remote work and the increased focus on sustainability have led to a growing interest in hybrid and electric vehicles. The pandemic has also led to increased government support and incentives for the adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles, which could help to drive the market growth.   Please Visit the Press Release:      Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market   – By Component   Based on component, global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market is divided into Battery, Motor, Controller, Engine, and Transmission segments. The battery segment holds the highest share in the global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market. Hybrid vehicles rely on a combination of electric motor and internal combustion engine (ICE), and the battery is an essential component that powers the electric motor. It is responsible for storing and providing energy to the electric motor, thereby reducing the reliance on the internal combustion engine and improving the fuel efficiency of the vehicle. The increasing demand for hybrid vehicles has led to a surge in demand for batteries, and battery manufacturers are investing in research and development to improve the efficiency and durability of batteries used in hybrid vehicles. Moreover, governments across the world are offering subsidies and incentives to promote the adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles, which is expected to drive the growth of the battery segment in the global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market.   Competitive Landscape   Major players operating in global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market include Robert Bosch GmbH, BorgWarner Inc., Magna International Inc., Hitachi Automotive Systems Ltd, Cummins Inc., ZF Friedrichshafen AG, Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Schaeffler AG, Continental AG, Marelli Holdings Co. Ltd, Tianjin Santroll, Allison Technologies, Bosch, ALTe Technology, and Voith. To further enhance their market share, these companies employ various strategies, including mergers and acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, license agreements, and new product launches.   don't miss the business opportunity in the   global hybrid vehicle powertrain component market   . consult our analysts to gain crucial insights and facilitate your business growth.   The in-depth analysis of the report provides information about growth potential, upcoming trends, and statistics of Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market. It also highlights the factors driving forecasts of total market size. The report promises to provide recent technology trends in Global Hybrid Vehicle Powertrain Component Market and industry insights to help decision-makers make sound strategic decisions. Furthermore, the report also analyzes the growth drivers, challenges, and competitive dynamics of the market.      Recent Developments     Scope of the Report     By Vehicle Type     By Propulsion     By Component     By Region       Please Find Below Some Related Topics:     About Us   BlueWeave Consulting provides comprehensive Market Intelligence (MI) Solutions to businesses regarding various products and services online and offline. We offer all-inclusive market research reports by analyzing qualitative and quantitative data to boost the performance of your business solutions. BlueWeave has built its reputation by delivering quality inputs and nourishing long-lasting relationships with its clients. We are one of the promising digital MI solutions companies providing agile assistance to make your business endeavors successful.   Contact Us:     BlueWeave Consulting & Research Pvt. Ltd     +1 866 658 6826 | +1 425 320 4776 | +44 1865 60 0662           MENAFN27032023004107003653ID1105874424 MENAFN27032023004107003653ID1105874424 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN