MakerDAO’s DAI stablecoin could be due for a makeover. In a call with community members on Thursday, Rune Christensen, the founder of Ethereum’s MakerDAO, said the stablecoin-issuing protocol should rebrand its flagship token to be more understandable for “normal people.” DAI, the fourth-largest stablecoin, with a market cap near $5 billion – and the only top stablecoin backed by a basket of assets, including other cryptocurrencies – suffers from bad branding that could be inhibiting its growth, Christensen said during a call to discuss the protocol’s decentralization plan, called “Endgame.” “What’s the right name for a stablecoin if you’re going to try to appeal to normal people? It has to have USD in it,” Christensen said on the call, which CoinDesk attended. But that moniker would imply the token would stay pegged to the dollar, Christensen said, and there’s no guarantee a peg would hold. The discussion of a rebranding came amid a broader debate about Christensen’s “Endgame” proposal for MakerDAO, itself a complex topic that Christensen admitted few understand. He said the move created a broader opportunity to rebrand MakerDAO and make it more approachable. He called for “a complete rebrand, complete new name, complete new look, completely different approach to user acquisition,” saying it's “the only way to take control of the narrative.” MakerDAO should position DAI as a currency that users can generate yield with, he added. And DAI should be seen as “the safest and most reliable gamified crypto of all,” he argued. Not all attendees were convinced by Christensen's arguments. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Danny is CoinDesk's Managing Editor for Data & Tokens. He owns BTC, ETH and SOL. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk