DENVER — Fresh off a headlining appearance at Riot Fest in Chicago, Warped Tour fan favorites Yellowcard are reuniting for a 2023 tour. The pop-punk legends are celebrating 20 years of their breakthrough album "Ocean Avenue," which was released July 2003. The 2023 North American tour will kick off July 5 in Baltimore, Maryland, and circling the continent until Tuesday, Aug. 8, where they wind down at Levitt Pavilion in Denver. Mayday Parade, Story of the Year, Anberlin, and This Wild Life will also be joining the tour. Tickets for Yellowcard's tour are on sale now at Ticketmaster.com. "Announcing a Yellowcard tour is something I never thought we would get to do again," said Yellowcard vocalist Ryan Key. "Much less, a tour with bands of this caliber made up of such amazing people and good friends. Being given the opportunity to play music together again is truly a gift that we are not taking for granted. We are going to make these shows extremely special for all of the fans who we have missed so much these last six years." Artist presale is happening now! Find the presale password in the announcements channel of our Discord, and tell us what shows you’re attending in the comments! ⬇️https://t.co/FX2Z90FybT pic.twitter.com/d79NV0nTqN Yellowcard's breakthrough album features the singles “Way Away,” “Only One” and the title track “Ocean Avenue” among its 13 tracks. The outdoor Levitt Pavilion can host up to 18,000 people in its open lawn seating for their free concerts and 7,500 for ticketed concerts SUGGESTED VIDEOS: Colorado Guide Watch more from 9NEWS on the free 9NEWS+ app for Roku and Fire TV. 9NEWS+ has multiple live daily shows including 9NEWS Mornings, Next with Kyle Clark and 9NEWS+ Daily, an original streaming program. 9NEWS+ is where you can watch live breaking news, weather updates, and press conferences. You can also replay recent newscasts and find videos on demand of our top stories, local politics, investigations and Colorado specific features. To download 9NEWS+ on Roku search for KUSA. To download 9NEWS+ on Fire TV search for 9NEWS. RELATED: Watch 9NEWS for free on ROKU, Apple TV, Fire TV Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     In Other News Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.