
                
                    
                        Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The cat food brand is reintroducing its “Remix” campaign by keying into pop culture nostalgia. Like many other brands in recent months, Meow Mix has been integrating nostalgia for pop cultural artifacts of past decades into its marketing as a way to engage consumers. PSOne, a unit of Publicis dedicated to the J.M. Smucker Company, and BBH US worked on the campaign.  The thirty-second spot features a group of five cats wearing denim outfits singing “meow” over and over again to a ‘90s beat. Chasez makes a cameo and sings along before the cats make a costume change to white outfits. The short music video ends with the brand’s classic tagline, “the only cat food cats ask for by name.” A landing page dedicated to the campaign features a zodiac quiz for cats along with a profile of the Tabby 5. “Our latest campaign honors Meow Mix’s storied heritage while also bringing new cultural relevancy to the brand,” said Gail Hollander, CMO of J.M. Smucker in a statement. The campaign comes not only at a popular time for campaigns driven by popular music, with brands such as Malibu, Wendy’s and others recently re-purposing classic songs for advertising purposes — it also comes a pivotal time for Meow Mix. Earlier this year, J.M. Smucker completed its sales of a number of pet food brands and said it will increase its focus on driving growth for Meow Mix and Milk-Bone going forward. The pet food sector has seen increased competition in recent years, making a brand’s ability to stand out increasingly important. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts A ban could benefit Meta, weakening competition and options for advertisers, while a potential suitor will need to be well-versed in data management. As marketers emerged from two strenuous years, innovative media strategies and bets on buzzy technology like generative AI stood apart from the pack. Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts A ban could benefit Meta, weakening competition and options for advertisers, while a potential suitor will need to be well-versed in data management. As marketers emerged from two strenuous years, innovative media strategies and bets on buzzy technology like generative AI stood apart from the pack. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines