Real-world sex, real-world emotion. Choose your preferred player: For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a 10-digit phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the
        podcast in your app: We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up
          manually: 
How does this work?
 
We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet
We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer,
          click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed,  check our FAQ.
 Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. On today’s episode of Hear Me Out… let’s get it on. Whether you watch porn or not — admit it, or not — adult entertainment shapes the way we think about sex, gender, and power. Our guest today argues that porn is an industry, but it’s also a genre, and it’s much closer to fantasy than it is to reality. But if we abandoned porn and replaced it with watching real people have real sex, we might not just shake off taboos; we might also become better lovers, and better people, too. Cindy Gallop, CEO of MakeLoveNotPorn, joins us. If you have thoughts you want to share, or an idea for a topic we should tackle, you can email the show: hearmeout@slate.com Podcast production by Maura Currie Celeste Headlee is a veteran journalist, and the author of We Need to Talk: How to Have Conversations That Matter. She’s devoted her career to reviving the art of productive discussion and debate in American life. Slate is published by The Slate
          Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents ©
        2024
        The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.