CSCO is top for value, FTNT is fastest-growing, and VRSN top for momentum Oscar Wong / Getty Images  Top cybersecurity stocks this quarter include VeriSign Inc., Booz Allen Hamilton Corp., and CACI International Inc., shares of which have all notched double-digit gains in the last 12 months, weathering a higher interest rate environment that has hurt tech companies and spurred widespread pullbacks in business spending.
  Cybersecurity stocks, represented by the First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity ETF (CIBR), have underperformed the broader market over the past year. CIBR has fallen 19% over the past 12 months, while the Russell 1000's has fallen 2%.
  Here are the top three cybersecurity stocks with the best value, the fastest growth, and the most momentum. All data are as of May 1, 2023.
  These are the cybersecurity stocks with the lowest 12-month trailing price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Because profits can be returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks, a low P/E ratio shows you’re paying less for each dollar of profit generated.
  Source: YCharts
  These are the top cybersecurity stocks as ranked by a growth model that scores companies based on a 50/50 weighting of their most recent quarterly year-over-year (YOY) percentage revenue growth and their most recent quarterly YOY earnings-per-share (EPS) growth.
  Both sales and earnings are critical factors in the success of a company. Therefore ranking companies by only one growth metric makes a ranking susceptible to the accounting anomalies of that quarter (such as changes in tax law or restructuring costs) that may make one or the other figure unrepresentative of the business in general. Companies with quarterly EPS or revenue growth of over 1,000% were excluded as outliers.
  Source: YCharts
   These are the cybersecurity stocks with the highest total return over the past 12 months.
  Source: YCharts
  According to the International Data Corporation, worldwide spending on security services is expected to grow 12% to $219 billion in 2023. The research firm estimates spending on security products and services will continue to outperform growth in overall IT spending, driven by cloud deployments and expanding privacy legislation. Banking, manufacturing, professional services, and government are the industries expected to increase spending the most. Software is expected to be the largest and fast-growing technology group in 2023, with endpoint security the leading software category.
  With this in mind and geopolitical tensions remaining elevated, cybersecurity stocks—particularly software-focused names—could be positioned to weather the macroeconomic storm and deliver strong growth.
  Many of the stocks in this sector have high P/E ratios, and prices can be volatile and verysensitive to quarterly growth. With inflation in the U.S. remaining elevated, there is apossibility of more rate increases by the Federal Reserve, which also could hurt these stocksin the near term.
 Cisco Systems Inc. "CISCO REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS" Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. "Check Point Software Technologies Reports 2023 First Quarter Financial Results" Leidos Holdings Inc. "Leidos Holdings, Inc. Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2023 Results." Leidos Holdings Inc. "Tom Bell begins tenure as Leidos CEO." Fortinet Inc. "Fortinet Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2022 Financial Results." A10 Networks Inc. "A10 Networks Reports Preliminary First Quarter Financial Results, Reiterates Full-Year Earnings Guidance." Alarm.com. "Alarm.com Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2022 Results." VeriSign Inc. "VeriSign Reports First Quarter 2023 Results." Booz Allen Hamilton. "About Booz Allen Hamilton." Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. "BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FISCAL 2023 RESULTS." CACI International Inc. "What We Do." CACI International Inc. "CACI Reports Results for Its Fiscal 2023 Third Quarter." International Data Corporation. "New IDC Spending Guide Forecasts Worldwide Security Investments Will Grow 12.1% in 2023 to $219 Billion."