
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 Get some of the best blockbuster AAA games at a great price in the Green Man Gaming Sizzling Star sale. By 
    Darryn Bonthuys
   on June 29, 2023 at 12:02PM PDT Green Man Gaming's big Sizzling Sale is now live, and if you've been looking for some blockbuster games that you can use to casually show off your new hardware, this sale will help you out with a range of high-profile PC games. Some of the standout titles hail from PlayStation Studios, as Sony's console brand has made a big push into PC gaming with ports of its biggest games.   The Sizzling Sale is squaring off against the biggest PC game sale of the year so far: the Steam Summer Sale. You'll definitely want to check out our roundups for the best Steam Summer Sale deals and Steam Deck offers, but it's worth noting that Green Man Gaming is offering lower prices than Steam on a bunch of games. And since most of the deals in this roundup are for Steam keys, it makes sense to buy from GMG when the price is better. Make sure to compare prices across Steam, Green Man Gaming, and Fanatical before purchasing a game on your wishlist. You can't go wrong with  Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered,  which is pure web-slinging bliss,  Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection  is two-fisted adventure fun that's perfect for anyone who just walked out of the latest Indiana Jones movie, and  God of War  deftly weaves emotional storytelling with lethal action in a gorgeous Nordic setting. The big plus with these ports is that they come with a wide range of graphical features that are tailor-made for PC, ranging from ultrawide screen support to some very impressive ray-tracing upgrades. If your rig can handle it, these games will look better than their PS5 source material when they're running with ultra settings applied. Moving beyond PlayStation, there's also Microsoft's recent  Hi-Fi Rush.  While it's not as graphically demanding as its competition, it's still an incredible amount of fun, effortlessly charming with its high-energy Saturday morning cartoon visuals, and the gameplay is foot-tappingly good. For some bloodier action,  Doom Eternal  is an excellent stress test for any PC as you reduce hell's armies to single-digit numbers, and  The Quarry  will have you on the edge of your seat with its spooky setup. Best experienced with easily scared friends! Other recommendations include  Gotham Knights,  which has alright gameplay that has been expanded upon in recent months,  Red Dead Redemption 2  is still one of the best cowboy games of all time, and  Lego Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga  is unbeatable at around $17. You can see more highlights below of Green Man Gaming's sale. Please note that some of the deals below are only for Green Man Gaming XP members. You can  sign up for a free account  to take advantage of all of the deals. Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 