
eParisExtra.com
 eExtra News 
eParisExtra.com
 The average refund in 2022 (for the 2021 tax year) was $3,176 for individual income taxpayers, according to the IRS. 
                    File / eExtra News                 The average refund in 2022 (for the 2021 tax year) was $3,176 for individual income taxpayers, according to the IRS.1 If you expect to receive a refund in 2023 after filing your 2022 tax return, will you save or spend it? While you may be tempted to indulge, consider using the money to solidify your long-term financial position.  No matter your stage in life or the size of your refund, there are ways you can use it to help reach your current and future financial goals. Here are a few: For people starting out in their careers: -Advertisement- For those starting families: For those who have a solid financial foundation: For those approaching retirement:  For retirees: Review your tax withholding If you regularly receive a large tax refund, you may want to adjust the withholding on your paycheck. Decreasing your refund may increase your monthly net pay, allowing you to allocate extra income each month to your financial goals. This strategy isn’t right for everyone. Consult with your tax professional and financial advisor before making adjustments or deciding how to manage your refund. 1 – IRS.gov, “Filing Season Statistics for Week Ending October 28, 2022,” Nov. 03, 2022. https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/filing-season-statistics-for-week-ending-october-28-2022. Thomas A. Callaway CRPC®, is a Financial Advisor with Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. in Paris TX.  He specializes in fee-based financial planning and asset management strategies and has been in practice for 30 years. To contact him you can go to www.ameripriseadvisors.com/thomas.callaway or call (903)785-7000, office located at 2219 Lamar Ave Paris TX 75460. Ameriprise Financial and its affiliates do not offer tax or legal advice. Consumers should consult with their tax advisor or attorney regarding their specific situation. Investment products are not insured by the FDIC, NCUA or any federal agency, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by any financial institution, and involve investment risks including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value. A Roth IRA is tax free as long as investors leave money in the account for at least 5 years and are 59 ½ or older when they take distributions or meet another qualifying event, such as death, disability or purchase of a first home. Investment advisory products and services are made available through Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC, a registered investment adviser. Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC. Member FINRA and SIPC. © 2023 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. All rights reserved.