e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Editor’s note: This is the Wednesday, May 31, 2023, edition of the “Game Day with Kevin Modesti” newsletter. To receive the newsletter in your inbox, sign up here. When the English Premier League season ended last weekend, many fans here might have wondered where and when they’d find their next fix of soccer drama (not to mention what to do at 7 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays). Those of us in Southern California didn’t have to look far or wait long. In other news: • Bill McGovern, a former UCLA and NFL assistant coach, died of cancer at age 60; he missed much of last season while the school kept details of his condition private. • Clayton Kershaw spoke out against the Dodgers’ decision to honor the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence on Pride Night at Dodger Stadium, saying he doesn’t like how the LGBTQ group is “making fun of a religion.” • A man has sued the Angels after being blinded in one eye by a ball thrown into the stands during a 2022 game in Anaheim. • On the field, the Dodgers continued their May offensive display and beat the Washington Nationals, but the Angels couldn’t continue their recent success with Tyler Anderson on the mound and lost to the White Sox in Chicago. Soccer headlines are everywhere this morning. The Galaxy fired president Chris Klein yesterday after the club’s seven-year slide to the bottom of the Major League Soccer standings and a season of boycotts by supporter groups. The Galaxy, Los Angeles Football Club and Angel City Football Club all have what could be pivotal games tonight. And one more thing: The U.S. men’s national team has yet another new interim coach. The Southern California News Group soccer writing team of Damian Calhoun and Josh Gross has it all covered. Galaxy: The firing of Klein, the former MLS and U.S. national team midfielder who had held his executive role with the Galaxy since 2013, was just a matter of time with MLS’ one-time marquee franchise in an extended trophy drought. Klein’s offseason contract extension, coming after he was suspended and the Galaxy fined and sanctioned for violations of MLS salary and roster rules, had angered fans and led to protests and boycotts that columnist Mirjam Swanson gave her take on in April. There had been reasons for optimism before this season after the arrival of midfielders Gaston Brugman and Riqui Puig sparked last season’s run to the MLS Cup semifinals. But the Galaxy is 2-9-3. It got a feel-good win recently, knocking rival LAFC out of the U.S. Open Cup tournament, only to immediately revert to form, losing to Charlotte FC, 1-0, at home for its third straight MLS shutout. Now Coach Greg Vanney will “lead all soccer operations,” according to the firing announcement. If any fire is lit by the front office change, it could come tonight when the Galaxy visits Real Salt Lake, which is fourth from the bottom of the 14-team Western Conference. LAFC: After winning the MLS regular-season title and the MLS Cup last fall, LAFC is looking to win a third trophy in eight months as it begins the two-leg CONCACAF Champions League final tonight against Club León in Mexico. The second leg of the continental championship final is Sunday at L.A.’s BMO Stadium. A victory would reward Coach Steve Cherundolo for a month-long project of managing players’ workloads while playing in several competitions at once, the penalty good soccer teams pay for success. Also, Gross writes, the game in Mexico is a chance for LAFC captain Carlos Vela to burnish his reputation in his home country, where he’s less revered. Relive LAFC’s MLS Cup victory in November in Gross’ dramatic game story. Angel City: Trying to improve on its eighth-place finish in its first year in the National Women’s Soccer League, Angel City (2-4-3) is 10th in the 12-team table with midseason closing in. Tonight’s road game against Portland Thorns FC is part of the NWSL’s Challenge Cup in-season tournament. It’s one Angel City has to win, since the L.A. club is third in its four-team group and Portland fourth; the three group winners plus the best runner-up will advance. Angel City was must-see TV – or live streaming – early in the season because of Alyssa Thompson, who had goals in her first professional game and her first NWSL game. But the 18-year-old from Harvard-Westlake High has only one shot on goal in the last three games. Calhoun writes: “The club also hasn’t done a good enough job of getting Alyssa Thompson into scoring chances.” U.S. men: Anthony Hudson, who’d been interim coach since Gregg Berhalter was let go following a Round-of-16 finish at the World Cup, stepped down yesterday to take a “new opportunity” reported to be a coaching job in the Middle East. This leaves B.J. Callaghan, another interim coach, in charge while a new coach is sought to take the U.S. to the 2026 World Cup in the United States, Canada and Mexico. As Calhoun writes, Callaghan will be coaching the U.S. during a busy summer featuring the CONCACAF Nations League semifinals (June 15-18) and the CONCACAF Gold Cup (June 16-July 16, with the final at SoFi Stadium). Bookmark soccer coverage here, and follow Calhoun (@DamianCalhoun) and Gross (@yay_yee) on Twitter. • The Angels finish up with the White Sox, hoping Jaime Barria builds on his sharp first start against the Red Sox (11:10 a.m., BSW) • The Dodgers go for a sweep vs. the Nationals (1:10 p.m., SNLA). They host the Yankees beginning Friday. • The Galaxy, winless with one goal in seven away games in MLS play, visits Real Salt Lake (6:30 p.m., Apple TV+). • LAFC is in Mexico to face León in the first leg of the CONCACAF Champions League final (7 p.m., FS1, TUDN). • Angel City FC, which has one road win in all competitions, plays at Portland for an NWSL Challenge Cup game (7:30 p.m., Paramount+). Noah Syndergaard is the only starting pitcher with whom the Dodgers are under .500 (4-6), yet they’re listed as -230 favorites against Patrick Corbin and the Nationals today. “Really didn’t think it would happen during the season.” — Soccer writer Damian Calhoun tweeting about the Galaxy firing president Chris Klein.  Role reversal: Washington Nationals center fielder Lane Thomas becomes the spectator as fans try to catch a home run to right-center by the Dodgers’ Jason Heyward during the second inning on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium. The photo is by Ashley Landis for The Associated Press. Thanks for reading. Send suggestions, comments and questions by email at kmodesti@scng.com and via Twitter @KevinModesti. Editor’s note: Thanks for reading the “Game Day with Kevin Modesti” newsletter. To receive the newsletter in your inbox, sign up here. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group