INDIANAPOLIS -- In the days following the end of a chaotic 4-12-1 season, the Colts had an interim head coach and general manager speak for a combined 50 minutes about what went wrong and what comes next, including Jeff Saturday's candidacy for the permanent job. In those 50 minutes, neither Saturday nor general manager Chris Ballard made a case for anything Saturday tangibly improved on the Colts during a 1-7 stretch. Neither man pointed to anything from any of his eight games to make a case for why he could land the permanent job. "That’s a great question and one I’m going to hold tight to the vest," Saturday said. That's because the case is a simple one, and it's not about football. "Ultimately, Mr. (Jim) Irsay makes the final call," Ballard said of the team owner. "We give him, here’s our thoughts, and Mr. Irsay is a good listener. Ultimately, he’ll make the final call." Irsay's affection for his 14-year center, Ring of Honor member and team consultant has never been a secret. Ever since the owner beamed next to him at a midseason press conference and defended his lack of coaching experience, he made one thing clear: This tenure and how it'd be judged would be anything but traditional. It has lasted eight games so far, with seven losses and a -87 point differential. "I’m not judging him by that," Ballard said. "What I will judge, the things I did like were he stayed positive, he kept working, held the team accountable, wasn’t afraid to hold players accountable and when he saw mistakes, to call them out. Sure, he’s got things he’s got to grow. We all do. I’m not going to judge him off that.” Ballard made it clear in his season wrap-up press conference Tuesday that he was bothered by some of what happened in those eight games. He brought up the 33-0 run the Colts allowed in the fourth quarter to the Cowboys to tie an NFL record. He fumed about Nick Foles' injury and Kayvon Thibodeaux's snow angel celebration and the apathetic reaction from his offensive line. "Somewhere along the way, and I don’t know where, but our competitive confidence we lost," Ballard said. "Like when it got hard in the game, those are the times we would melt down for whatever reason." Those meltdowns started in Saturday's second game, when the Colts allowed Jalen Hurts to walk in the end zone on a 3rd-and-Goal draw play for a 17-16 Eagles victory. Through the first 10 games, including Saturday's debut against the Raiders, the Colts had generated five fourth-quarter comebacks. In the final seven games, they were outscored 102-13. "When you say eight-game audition, eight-game audition with half an offensive staff, boundaries when you come in," Saturday said. "So I mean, yeah, it’s an eight-game audition with the hand you’re dealt. So, how do you deal with that?" The NFL is the ultimate results-based business, where a franchise quarterback like Derek Carr can get benched and coaches like Nathaniel Hackett can get fired before his first season is over. Saturday grew up in that pressure-cooker as Peyton Manning's center, and he arrived as a coach still speaking that language. "I’m about W’s and L’s," Saturday said after coaching his third game. But after he finished 1-7, with a win over the Raiders and seven straight losses, the record doesn't appear to matter to his evaluation. It matters for plenty of those around him. On the players who endured such rapid change in the middle of a season, Ballard said, “They’re pros. It’s their job to show up and perform.” On himself, the architect of that roster, Ballard said, "I failed. I’m not going to sit up here and make excuses. Ultimately, it falls on my shoulders. I won’t walk away from that. I won’t run from it." MORE: What to know about the four head coaching candidates the Colts want to interview Saturday is the exception to the standard. He's an outsider who arrived at midseason, and he must be evaluated in a prism of where they were after changing a quarterback, an offensive coordinator and a coach in three weeks. "When he made the decision and we talked through Jeff, I voiced my concerns, which were: ‘Look, this is unprecedented, and we’re putting him into a really tough situation here, taking a team over midseason. It’s going to be tough, and I wanted to make sure he understood that," Ballard said. "You can’t do wholesale changes when you come in Week 8. That stuff starts in April. Your vision and everything you want to do, that’s built over time and over the years. It’ll be interesting to hear." The night the Colts fired Reich, they didn't discuss interim options on their own staff, such as former head coaches in Gus Bradley and John Fox. "The discussion was Jeff, and when we decided to go that way, that’s where we were going," Ballard said. Ballard talked Saturday through the immense challenges he was facing. Saturday had only watched some of the Colts games due to his schedule at ESPN. The team he was inheriting was struggling at quarterback and offensive line, and he'd be down an offensive coordinator, plus the man who designed the offense in Reich. Saturday estimates that he spent 85% of his time in offensive meetings early on, trying to make up for the shortened staff. He spent practice time with the offensive line, determined to start at the root of the issues. The line began to play better, with clear improvement from rookie left tackle Bernhard Raimann. But the offense grew simplistic, and they simplified even more when tight ends coach Klayton Adams left for a job at Stanford with four games to go. Key players such as DeForest Buckner and Shaquille Leonard have spoken up the accountability Saturday brought to the day-to-day operations, but the Colts found it hard to translate that to the field on Sundays. "Being a head coach is hard," Ballard said. "Not only from managing a football team and coaching a football team, managing a coaching staff, 69 players, schedule, media – all the stuff you’ve got to deal with." It's difficult to find success with an interim coach, but it's possible. This year, Steve Wilks took over a 1-4 Panthers team and finished 6-6, even after the team traded star running back Christian McCaffrey and released quarterback Baker Mayfield. Last year, Rich Bisaccia stepped in for a 3-2 Raiders team swarmed in controversies involving Jon Gruden and Henry Ruggs III, and he finished 7-5 to get Las Vegas into the playoffs. "They’re better football teams," Ballard said. They're also normal interim hires, coordinators who were on staff and had spent decades in the NFL. They were ready for difficult moments, and now Wilks' record is his primary case for the Panthers' permanent job. Saturday's are becoming a line in a media guide. They include the worst fourth quarter in NFL history, the biggest collapse in NFL history and the fifth-longest losing streak in the Colts' Indianapolis history. By throwing out the wins and losses of the only games Saturday has coached above high school, the Colts are whittling his candidacy down to just a few factors: his presence in the building and his vision for the future based on all he's learned about what went wrong. Ballard is leading the search portion. His interview list includes names like the Eagles' Shane Steichen, the Lions' Ben Johnson and Aaron Glenn, the Broncos' Ejiro Evero and the Rams' Raheem Morris. They are all current coordinators with more than a decade either on NFL coaching staffs or in front office roles, the type of men who understand the work flow and daily challenges Ballard laid out. Saturday has been on the interview list since Irsay called him that day in New England. "I have a plan of attack, that I understand this is what I believe has to happen for us to turn a corner," Saturday said. "Hopefully, that sets me apart, is what I will bring to that." What happens with this hire will say plenty about whether Irsay or Ballard are in charge of the Colts' biggest decisions. And they just so happen to have another coming at quarterback in the NFL Draft. Contact Colts insider Nate Atkins at natkins@indystar.com. Follow him on Twitter @NateAtkins_. This article originally appeared on Indianapolis Star: Colts: Why don't Jeff Saturday's results seem to matter? Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Training camps are opening across the country and there's no better time to get an insider's perspective on the biggest whispers at the buzziest camps. Yahoo's senior NFL writer Jori Epstein joins Matt Harmon to share her biggest observations and what she's hearing from Bears, Packers, Commanders and Cowboys camp. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105.