Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Russian Oil Depot Fire Rages on After Ukraine Drone Attack 
Find us on:







  The International Energy Agency has… Elon Musk, in an interview… China admits its ship damaged… Robert Rapier Robert Rapier is a chemical engineer in the energy industry. He has 25 years of international engineering experience in the chemical, oil and gas, and… More Info On September 29th the third quarter of 2023 came to a close. The S&P 500 lost 3.6% for the quarter, and nine of eleven S&P 500 sectors turned in a negative return in Q3. Particularly hard hit were defensive income sectors like consumer staples, real estate, and utilities. The clear star of the quarter was the energy sector, which returned double digits on the back of energy prices that are once again on the rise. Through Q3 the energy sector is up 6.1% year-to-date (YTD), after leading all sectors in 2021 and 2022.


  Q3 2023 Sector Returns. ROBERT RAPIER According to data provider FactSet — which I use to analyze companies — the average upstream company returned 14.3% in Q3. These are the companies that produce oil and gas. Of the 51 companies that FactSet classifies as “upstream”, only seven had a negative return in Q3. YTD the average upstream company is up 2.9%. The top performers in Q3 in the upstream sector were mostly small companies, like BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust (+56.8%) and Gran Tierra Energy (+41.3%). The best-performing large Upstream company was Cenovus Energy (+23.2%). Among the 45 companies that FactSet classifies as “midstream”, the average return was 9.3%. KNOT Offshore Partners LP was the top performer in this category, notching a 38.9% return. The integrated supermajors bounced back from a second quarter decline, gaining 10.5%. Among this group, the best performer in Q3 was TotalEnergies SE with a total return of 15.2%. Shell remains the top performer in its class for the year with a return of 14.8%.


 The Big Three refiners — Marathon PetroleumMPC , Valero, and Phillips 66PSX — significantly outperformed the broader energy sector, gaining an average of 26.5%. After a negative Q2, Marathon was the top performer, gaining 32.4% during the quarter. As I noted at the end of Q2, “OPEC production cuts will likely be felt before the year ends. This should prop up oil prices and provide better prospects for energy companies in the second half of the year.” That was certainly the case in Q3, and OPEC+ supply reductions will likely continue to be the primary driver in the oil markets through next year’s presidential election. This is bullish for the oil markets but presents challenges for inflation control and economic stability as the U.S. heads into a presidential election year. By Robert Rapier More Top Reads From Oilprice.com: Back to homepage Previous Post Disciplined Oil & Gas Companies Succesful In Winning Back Investors Next Post Groundbreaking Dual-Purpose Batteries Store Energy And Capture CO2 
	            Robert Rapier is a chemical engineer in the energy industry. He has 25 years of international engineering experience in the chemical, oil and gas, and…	           The World's 5 Largest Oilfields and Their Impact Kazakhstan Calls for a Russia-Free Defense Bloc in Central Asia The Real Reason Iran Hasn’t Retaliated Against Israel Supply Chain Woes Worsen After Chinese Port Closure Nigeria's Dangote Refinery Set to Disrupt European Fuel Markets ADVERTISEMENT 





 © OilPrice.com The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice. Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction. Merchant of Record: A Media Solutions trading as Oilprice.com