 A worker building a Pulte Home. Pulte is one of five companies I like that feature rapid revenue ... [+] growth. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)  For a while, revenue growth at all costs was a popular approach, and investors fell for it. Now that stocks such as AMC Entertainment
AMC
 Holdings and WeWork (WE) have crashed too earth, investors are a little less in love with revenue growth. So, now that the fad has faded, let’s revisit the area, with a trio of safeguards. Safeguard number one: We don’t want companies that are giving away their product or service for less than it costs to produce – no matter whether the product is movie tickets or office space. That’s madness. Safeguard number two: We don’t want companies that borrow to the hilt to fund rapid growth. That’s foolhardiness. Safeguard number three: We don’t want companies whose stocks sell for sky-high prices, perhaps because they are being flogged on Internet bulletin boards. That’s stupidity. Here are five companies that have grown their revenue by 15% of more in the latest year and the latest five years, and in my judgment don’t crash into the guardrails I described above. Markel Group is a specialty insurer, offering lines such as professional liability, marine insurance, reinsurance and workers’ compensation. During the past five years, it has grown its revenue at a 16.7% annual clip. Unusually for an insurer, it invests much of the revenue generated by its insurance operations into non-insurance ventures such as payroll processing, commercial real estate and private equity. Pulte Group (PHM), based in Atlanta, is one of the largest U.S. home builders, selling at a variety of price points. Its average selling price is about $540,000. Its five-year revenue growth rate is 18.1%. You may think I’m crazy to recommend a homebuilder at a time when rising mortgage rates have scared many buyers out of the housing market. Perhaps I am, but I think the pent-up demand for single-family houses will outweigh the mortgage problem in the next two or three years. Cement, slag, aggregates and concrete are not the stuff that dreams are made of. But they have propelled Eagle Materials Inc. to a 15.9% revenue growth rate over the past five years. Recent results have been helped by the federal infrastructure bill, passed in November 2021. But Eagle’s stock price hasn’t moved much since that bill was passed. The stock sells for only 11 times earnings, a modest multiple. The company’s net profit margin is handsome, 22%. Boasting an 18.7% revenue growth rate the past five years is Permian Resources Corp. (PR) of Midland, Texas. Was formed through the merger of three small oil companies. Colgate Energy and Centennial Resources merged in 2022 to form Permian, which is now in the process of acquiring Earthstone Energy. The company has a market value of a little over $5 billion, which makes it a mid-capitalization stock, yet a comparative minnow in the world of big oil. Profitability has been spotty, so this one is speculative, but the stock is cheap at under 10 times earnings. Dorian LPG Ltd. (LPG), based in Stamford, Connecticut, owns and operates about 22 ships designed to carry liquefied petroleum gas, which the U.S. is exporting in increasing amounts to Europe. Its five-year revenue growth rate is 27.6%. I like the stock because I think the outlook for gas exports is strong. Dorian went public in 2014 and has reported a profit in seven of its 10 fiscal years. The latest fiscal year is the only one in which I would say its profitability was excellent, with a 19% return on stockholders’ equity. The stock sells for six times recent earnings and five times forward estimates. The last time I wrote about stocks with rapid revenue growth, the results were spectacular—a gain of 81% from July 20, 2020 to July 16, 2021. All four stocks I recommended rose, with MYR Group
MYRG
 leading the pack with a 172% gain. Align Technology
ALGN
chipped in a 97% gain, and LGI Homes
LGIH
 returned 40%. Progressive
PGR
 brought up the read with 15%. Three of the four stocks beat the Standard & Poor’s 500 Total Return Index, which was up 33% for the period. But alas, that time wasn’t typical. In six outings, my rapid revenue growth stocks have returned an average of 14.5%, just a shade better than the index, which came in at 14.0% for the same six one-year periods. Three of the six columns showed a profit, and only two beat the S&P. Bear in mind that my column results are hypothetical and shouldn’t be confused with results I obtain for clients. Also, past performance doesn’t predict the future. Disclosure: My firm has a professional liability policy with Markel. A few of my firm’s clients own Pulte.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.