Ritz-Carlton Central Park on Central Park South A staycation at The Ritz-Carlton Central Park conveniently sidesteps the hassles of crowded airports, canceled flights, and other irksome travel delays. And for those living in the tri-state area, a New York City staycation is one way to reduce their carbon footprint. As tempting as exotic vacations may be, closer-to-home getaways not only potentially save time and money but eliminate the adverse impact of long-haul air travel on the environment. A weekend or midweek stay at this luxury property offers an easy (albeit indulgent) way to relax, recharge and rejuvenate close to home. Located at 50 Central Park South (between Fifth and Sixth Avenues) the hotel sits at the epicenter of one of the world’s most vibrant and interesting cities. Moreover, Central Park—an 843-acre urban oasis—is just steps away from its doors. The three-block stretch that comprises Central Park South is lined with exclusive residences, art galleries, and restaurants. The streets are anchored by Columbus Circle on the west and Grand Army Plaza on the east. Guests can shop (or window-shop) the department stores and designer boutiques on Fifth Avenue, visit nearby cultural attractions (including MoMA and the Museum of Arts and Design), enjoy Broadway entertainment, or explore everything else the city has to offer by heading uptown or downtown (by foot, taxi, car service or taking the convenient Fifth Avenue subway, with a station steps from the hotel). Or they can simply opt to luxuriate in a beautiful room or suite and enjoy the hotel’s amenities. Guest room with a park view Three classic hotels sit on Central Park South, The Plaza, The Ritz-Carlton, and The Essex House, each with its own unique style and personality. When built in 1930, the Beaux-Arts style, sandstone building housing the Ritz-Carlton Central Park was called the St. Moritz, a nod to the Swiss ski resort of that name. The structure was designed by master architect Emery Roth, whose landmark residences include the Beresford and the San Remo on Central Park West, both of which became home to celebrities, politicians and business magnates. Over the course of many years, 50 Central Park South was bought and sold, and repurposed for a variety of residential and commercial ventures. But in 1999, The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC took over the property, reflagging and converting it into a luxury hotel, which opened its doors in 2002, adding 12 luxury condominium residences on the upper floors. The hotel was redesigned and updated again in 2017. The Ritz-Carlton Central Park feels intimate and right-sized, offering nine different categories of accommodations to choose from—across its 235 sophisticated rooms and elegant suites. All are spacious, and tastefully furnished blending classic with contemporary motifs. Guest rooms feel homelike with custom furnishings in rich woods, iconic art prints, and stacks of New York-focused coffee table books. The soft, natural palate of the upholstery, drapes, and flooring reflects the feel of the park that can be seen from the windows of the north-facing rooms. Attention to detail and guest comfort is reflected in the triple-sheeted plush bedding, ample seating, convenient drawer, and closet storage, and updated in-room technology. Oversized polished marble bathrooms offer separate water closets and thoughtful details rarely seen anymore like soap dishes and toothbrush holders. Soundproof windows and blackout curtains insulate guests from the bustle of the city streets below. Club Lounge at Ritz-Carlton Central Park South Keyed access to the exclusive Club Lounge on the second floor is available to occupants of suites on a complimentary basis (and at an upcharge to guests in other room categories). In this sedate and private setting, five different presentations of food and beverages are presented—starting with an extensive buffet breakfast to after-dinner dessert and cordials. The large, windowed lounge has a full bar and is staffed by wait staff attentive to the needs of every guest. A team of Club Concierges are available in the lounge to help with dinner reservations, theater tickets, tours and any other special requests. Those seeking tranquility and self-care can arrange massages, facials, or body treatments at the first Switzerland La Prairie Spa stateside. In fact, this unique sanctuary is the only one in the northeast. If guests desire, treatments can also be delivered in-room. As part of the hotel’s redesign, the 24-hour Ritz-Carlton Fitness Center has also been reimagined with Technogym state-of-the-art equipment, Concept2Rowers, and Peloton bikes. Individual and small-group fitness sessions can also be arranged upon request. The Ritz-Carlton brand is legendary in the hospitality industry for its high standards of service and the Central Park property certainly lives up to this promise. What sets this hotel apart from the many other luxury properties around the city, is the nature of the warm, attentive, personal service and care afforded to every guest who walks through the doors. Almost every person on the staff greets you by name and anticipates your needs. In the Club Lounge, waiters know how you like your morning coffee. All the concierges property proudly display the gold Les Clefs d'Or on their lapels attesting to their training and professionalism. But uniformly, from doormen to housekeepers, servers, and front desk receptionists, every member of the hotel staff is exceptionally well-trained. Moreover, their warm and welcoming personalities make the hotel feel like a comfortable home away from home. The Ritz-Carlton Central Park is a Forbes Five Star and AAA Five Diamond Hotel. As part of Marriott International, it participates in the Marriott Bonvoy rewards program.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.