We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. Molly was recently dumped from the island.  Love Island star Molly Marsh has shared a post showing a "solo date" after other half Zachariah Noble moved on in the villa. The weekend's dramatic events saw former Islander Kady McDermott return to the villa as a bombshell, and was tasked with coupling up with one of the men by stealing them. She chose Zach, meaning his pairing with Molly was officially over and the latter was subsequently dumped from the villa. Related: Love Island's Whitney quizzes Mehdi over surprise kisses Molly later said on Aftersun she wanted to wait for him on the outside world, though in last night's (June 26) episode, Zach went in for a kiss with Kady – suggesting he had definitely moved on from Molly. Taking to her Instagram Stories, Molly shared a series of posts about what she's been up to since she returned to the UK, one picture showing her eating a pizza at a restaurant, the star captioning the snap: "Solo dates". Speaking on Aftersun after her exit, Molly admitted she hoped that Zach would follow her and also leave the villa, saying: "There was definitely a part of me that thought, 'Come home with me'. Related: Love Island's Maya Jama addresses kissing noises in the villa "I thought, 'Let’s go and we can carry this on'. But it’s his journey as well and he probably needs to keep himself a little bit open and see if there is something there. "Me and Zach had said to each other we can’t be fully closed off yet and it will take time to get there. But it was heading to that, we were quite close to being that." Molly continued: "I wonder now if he maybe regrets saying he was still open. Maybe he was wishing he’d said, 'I am closed off' and it would have been different. Related: Love Island merchandise, gifts and more "I would have loved him to have come back with me and come home. But I understand he needs to stay and see what’s right and hopefully we carry on at home when he does leave. "I wish I'd spoken to Zach to say, 'I'll be waiting. I really want this to carry on'. But no words could come out of my mouth. I was so speechless!"  Love Island airs on ITV2 and streams on ITVX. Sam is a freelance reporter and sub-editor who has a particular interest in movies, TV and music. After completing a journalism Masters at City University, London, Sam joined Digital Spy as a reporter, and has also freelanced for publications such as NME and Screen International.  Sam, who also has a degree in Film, can wax lyrical about everything from Lord of the Rings to Love Is Blind, and is equally in his element crossing every 't' and dotting every 'i' as a sub-editor. Tommy Fury denies cheating amid Molly-Mae split Maya Jama unveils fringe hair transformation Love Island star Davide's home robbed What happened with Molly-Mae and Tommy Fury? Love Island's Joey Essex reports alleged stalker Molly-Mae confirms Tommy Fury split Love Island's Whitney shares relationship update Love Island's Andrew shares Tasha birthday tribute Love Island's Malin shares new relationship Olivia Attwood on moving past husband's cheating Maya Jama lines up next role after Love Island Love Island's Sean and Matilda relationship update DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.