My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Vedanta Ltd on February 6 announced that it has appointed David Reed as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of its semiconductor business. Reed was previously at NXP Semiconductors and GlobalFoundaries where he was Executive Vice President and General Manager of global operations. Vedanta said that Reed will be responsible for setting up a semiconductor fab unit and a semiconductor assembling and testing unit in India. Reed moved to NXP as part of the company’s merger with American Freescale Semiconductor in 2015. Before that, he was vice president and general manager at GlobalFoundries, a semiconductor contract manufacturing company. Vedanta added that with 35 years of experience, Reed's international experience includes establishment of a complete semiconductor ecosystem with global execution of wafer fabrication, research and development, assembly and testing, total quality management and packaging, and supply chain management. Recently in September 2022, billionaire Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta had selected Gujarat for its semiconductor project in a major step in its $20-billion joint venture with Taiwan's Foxconn. The project will include display and semiconductor facilities near Ahmedabad. The Mumbai-headquartered oil-to-metals conglomerate has obtained financial and non-financial subsidies including capital expenditure and cheap electricity from Gujarat to build the semiconductor plants. Meanwhile, shares of Vedanta on February 6 closed 2.56 percent lower at Rs 306.25 apiece on BSE. India's semiconductor market is estimated to reach $63 billion by 2026 from $15 billion in 2020. Most of the world's chip output is limited to a few countries like Taiwan and late-entrant India is now actively luring companies to “usher in a new era in electronics manufacturing” as it seeks ways to have seamless access to chips.
         Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.