McCoy’s Building Supply recently announced the addition of two members to its Executive Team. Melanie Rae has been promoted to vice president of people development, benefits, and training. Brandon Bishop has been promoted to vice president of merchandising. Rae, who attended Southwest Texas State University, has over 20 years of experience at McCoy’s starting as a human resources generalist before moving into manager and supervisor roles helping to establish and grow McCoy’s people development, benefits, and training departments. Most recently, she served as director of people development providing leadership to her department and mentorship to employees across McCoy’s. “I’m so excited for this next step and to be able to foster development in our McCoy’s team,” said Rae. “As a team, we will continue to champion our unique McCoy’s culture while finding strategic ways to enhance their employment experience.” White Paper: Manufacturing Competitive Advantage Bishop, a graduate of Tarleton State University, has spent 15 years at McCoy’s, including five years working at the company’s Stephenville location. He served at headquarters as a forest products buyer before moving into management roles in the commodities department. Most recently, he served as director of merchandising – commodities, leading his team while working closely with members of McCoy’s vendor community during supply chain challenges. “I’m looking forward to continuing to support the commodities side of our business while also expanding to work with hardlines and our store planning teams as well as their vendor partners,” said Bishop. “Overall, Merchandising has such a direct impact on our store teams and our customers. This new role allows a specific voice on the Executive Team to fully represent this department which is exciting.” “It is such an honor to welcome Melanie and Brandon to our Executive Team. I appreciate the balanced and wise view that Melanie brings to complex issues. And Brandon is an analytical thinker and a diligent student of our industry,” said Meagan McCoy Jones, president and CEO. “Every responsibility in McCoy’s ultimately reports up to one of the 12 leaders on our Executive Team, and they have my trust and confidence as our company continues to grow and thrive.” Get our free newsletter Join thousands of other lumber and building material industry leaders and keep up with the companies, people, products and issues shaping the industry. Become a digital partner ... Download this 55-page, in-depth study by LBM Journal of industry trends in sales force compensation and benefits. See how your organization stacks up. View all ... View all ... LBM Journal is the leading media company serving lumberyards, building material distributors, wholesalers, manufacturers, and service providers. Copyright© 2024 LBM Journal. All Rights Reserved. Registration is now open for the LBM Strategies 2024 Conference