 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN By Nakari Thorpe Topic:Employment Statistics Daniel Afonso co-founded an Indigenous-owned construction company with the aim of employing 100 per cent First Nations staff.  (ABC News: Nakari Thorpe) Daniel Afonso's construction company is filling gaps in employment while the country faces a workers shortage. He and his co-founders are tapping into an under-utilised workforce of First Nations staff at their firm NPM Indigenous.  "Speaking from experience there's only positives to gain," he said. "Look after our backyard first and we can provide great outcomes like this. [There is a] golden opportunity here to make a big change in generations."  Mr Afonso currently employs 60 per cent First Nations workers, and he's aiming for a clear 100 per cent in the near future. NPM Indigenous has completed construction projects in Sydney and regional communities. (Supplied) One of those staff members is Tjarani Barton-Vaofaunua. In the 12 months Ms Barton-Vaofaunua made the switch to working in construction, she's not once regretted it -- despite being new to the industry. "I was actually in media and communications prior to this, and I just had a moment where I wanted to change industries and have a change of career," she said.  Lining up tradies, overseeing a worksite or basic upkeep of properties are some of the career building blocks she is learning on the job as a project manager.  "It's been a really fun rollercoaster," she said. "I'm just learning so many different things about the industry like how to work with clients, how to work with community and I'm just really enjoying the new skill set."  Tjarani Barton-Vaofaunua made the switch to construction 12 months ago. (ABC News: Nakari Thorpe) "It's really important because it will show that our people can make a mark in this industry... and really make some important changes to way the industry works and the way we work," she said.  Mr Afonso's largely Indigenous-owned construction firm is trying to take in as many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees — qualified or not — to fill the gap in the industry's chronic labour shortage. The Sydney-based company has worked across 58 different locations across NSW particularly in regional and remote communities including Griffith, Tamworth, Walgett and Gulargambone.  They've partnered with Housing NSW, the Aboriginal Housing Organisation and most recently Lendlease on a major project at Barangaroo.  In 2022, the national shortfall of technicians and trade workers reached 47 per cent.  That shortfall also reached machine operators and drivers, and labourers, with a third of workers leaving according to the National Skills Report.  The Bureau of Statistics found that between 2008 and 2018–19, the national Indigenous employment rate increased slightly from 48.2 per cent to 49.1 per cent.  While the industry looks overseas to recruit migrant workers to make up the shortfall, Mr Afonso says the key to recovery is back home. The move is backed by service providers to tackle high unemployment and underemployment within the Indigenous population.  "I do encourage other businesses to take on and engage with Indigenous supply chains whether its Indigenous sub-contractors in our industry or Indigenous business in general," he said.  National Diversity and Inclusion Manager of APM Employment Services, Judi McConville, said there are many barriers to First Nations people gaining employment — including discrimination and generational factors.  Judi McConville says more pathways and processes need to be opened for Indigenous people looking for work. (ABC News: Nakari Thorpe) Stating a different approach to recruitment processes is needed.  "Sometimes people think there's no way they could apply for that job, or they open up Seek and there's fifteen steps they've gotta do — we can help with all of that," she said.  Ms McConville said the impacts of employing more First Nations people is huge.  "We see a person subsisting on a Centrelink payment and facing issues with health and debts that seem overwhelming and to find to find stable work that pays well ... that affects every aspect not just of that person's life, not just their family but the whole community they're within," she said.  Mr Afonso thinks all businesses should take the chance to make a difference to First Nations workers in any field.  "Go on the journey with them and build futures — we've all got a responsibility to do that."  Topic:Disinformation and Misinformation Topic:Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:US Elections Topic:Federal Government Topic:Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Topic:Royalty Aboriginal Economy Employment Statistics Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Sydney Tamworth Topic:Disinformation and Misinformation Topic:Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:US Elections Topic:Federal Government Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Federal Government Topic:War Topic:Race Relations We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)