Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Tropico 6 is a management sim that allows players to transform an island from a simple colony into an absolute paradise backed by revolutionary advancements. They'll need to make wise decisions as to which industries they invest in so that they can make the most money and advance their civilization. The choices players make will be different, depending on the stage of the game they're at.
      RELATED: Tropico 6: Every Faction In The Game, Explained
                     In the early stages of Tropico 6, players will want to focus their strategy on what they have at hand, while during the later stages, they can branch out into more lucrative money-making industries. There are many ways to increase production and profits, but the best industries in Tropico 6 can lead to players making a lot more money than others.
                         One of the earliest industries players can establish is a bustling rum industry. They'll need to set up sugar plantations and a rum distillery for this to work effectively. There should be a minimum of two sugar plantations per distillery for the best results. One thing to consider is the placement of workers' homes. Players won't want them walking a long distance to the plantation or distillery, which will be a waste of working time. Having their homes close to their jobs will alleviate this loss of time.
                         They'll also find there are rum export trade missions in which they can make a good chunk of income, allowing for expansion into other industries. By starting with rum, they'll get a good foothold, allowing for the start of a very profitable island. Both the plantation and distillery are unlocked at the start of the game for players to immediately begin building this industry.
                         Tobacco is a good starting industry. After players develop a thriving rum industry and make money off it, they'll have enough money to lay down some tobacco plantations. Planting these tobacco plantations is good planning during the Colonial era because they will allow for the sale of cigars during later eras.
                         During the World Wars era, for instance, the tobacco industry can be very easily transitioned into selling cigars, provided players have already established it. Waiting to do it until this era comes around may be too late to effectively make money on selling cigars, so they should aim to get into the tobacco industry as soon as possible.
                         Players will find that cotton is the most profitable agricultural product in Tropico 6. The industry does require a lot of space and logistics to manage though, so players will have to be prepared to handle the potential trials of dealing with it.
      RELATED: Tropico 6: Best Tips To Earn Money Fast
                     Properly placing a single cotton field can sustain a World Wars-era textile mill without the need for another field. Then, during the Cold War era, the unified weaving feeder will allow the combination of one cotton field and two to three llama ranches to sustain three factories. Additionally, investing in the cotton industry is essential if players want to build up their fashion industry, as this is an essential component.
                         Shipyards are valuable throughout the entirety of Tropico 6. They can be used to make a profit from the Colonial era all the way to the Modern era. Boats are the most valuable commodity throughout all time periods. To make this an effective industry, players will need to set up several lumber camps with a lumber mill to supply the shipyard. Eventually, they can increase the number of shipyards they have to maximize boat production.
      RELATED: Tropico 6: Best Tips To Increase Your Approval Rating
                     During the Cold War era, shipyards can be upgraded to take both steel and aluminum, which is a great transition for otherwise low-value materials. The only factor that prevents shipyards from being the most lucrative of the industries in Tropico 6 is the limitation on placement requirements.
                         The fashion industry relies heavily on several other industries to be successful. Players must be able to manage multiple resources simultaneously to make this one profitable. The cotton industry is essential to the fashion industry and is, on its own, a very valuable money-making machine. By the time players reach the Modern era, upgraded farms and ranches are just as profitable as the factories, and leather production becomes extremely profitable in Haute Couture mode.
                         The fashion companies feature an alternative work mode that has the side benefit of increasing housing happiness. Players also have the option to sell the apparel they are producing in the malls, which further increases overall happiness. While this is the best industry overall for profitability, it is the most resource and time-intensive, requiring the most input from players to be successful.
      Tropico 6 is available now on PC, macOS, Linux, PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Nintendo Switch.
      MORE: Beginner Tips For Tropico 6
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Now that the Pillars of Eternity universe is seeing a first-person action RPG in Avowed, one part of its world can no longer stay hidden.  Not many of Dexter's relationships have ended well, but Dexter: Resurrection could bring back one of his love interests.  A fresh melee weapon has joined the action. Find out how to unlock the Spear in Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone using this guide. Fans who want to explore a new chapter in The Elder Scrolls after the release of Gold Road may have to wait a while for a new storyline. PlayStation Plus experiences a bump in its player count this month, which seems to be thanks to an especially popular game featured in its new lineup. Specialized Memory Fragments can be a great help in Once Human, but players will have to spend some time, effort, and resources to get them. Developer Hello Games releases patch 5.05 for No Man's Sky, bringing several fixes and improvements to enhance the game's performance.