Change is coming to McDonald's. The popular fast food chain just announced that it would be modifying some of its classic dishes, notably the Big Mac and the McDouble. You can soon expect more Big Mac sauce, a more pillowy bun, and a better-seared patty—among other things. Change can be many things. It can be exciting, scary, mysterious, and so much more. But for McDonald's, change can also be delicious. The fast food chain has just announced that it has made several changes to its classic burgers, including the Big Mac and the McDouble, to improve their flavor. Among the changes customers can expect are softer, more pillowy buns, perfectly melted cheese, a better sear on the patty, and more Big Mac sauce. I think we've all had our fingers crossed when it comes to extra sauce. The tweaks also consist of adding white onions to the burger patties while they're still on the grill to enhance the overall flavor. “I’ll always remember my first burger from McDonald’s. And now my culinary team and I have the best job in the world: thinking about ways to bring even more of that iconic McDonald’s taste to fans,” said Chef Chad Schafer, Senior Director of Culinary Innovation, McDonald’s USA, in a statement. “We found that small changes, like tweaking our process to get hotter, meltier cheese and adjusting our grill settings for a better sear, added up to a big difference in making our burgers more flavorful than ever.” On social media, reactions to the burger news has been somewhat mixed. There were some who felt it was about time McDonald's made some tweaks. “It’s about time? McDonald’s is UPGRADING ITS BIG MAC, DOUBLE CHEESEBURGER AND CHICKEN SANDWICHES. first in some cities then nationally by 2024!" one user on Twitter wrote. Another person wasn't extremely confident in the upgrades, given that McDonald's ice cream machines are consistently on the fritz. "McDonald’s making tweaks to its classic burgers Good luck with this. You can’t get the shake machines to work on the south side," they tweeted. The revamped burgers are currently available in Los Angeles, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Sacramento, Phoenix, and several other cities. They're expected to be in restaurants nationwide by 2024. You Might Also Like Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.