Hey, it’s National French Fry Day 2023! Let’s eat some fried potatoes! Some big-name chains are honoring the celebration of crispy spuds by handing out some free or discounted fries, and we’re here to help you get them, because who doesn’t love free or less expensive food? Also, this is a good place to remind you that French fries may not actually have been French — they’re actually likely from Belgium. See? We’re bringing you free food AND some facts that you can bring with you while you eat! So let’s dive in with some deals you can get on Thursday, July 13, 2023: (AP Photo/Charlie Neibergall) ORG XMIT: IACN202 You can get FREE FRIES of any size on Thursday by using the McDonald’s app. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)  From Delaware Online: In honor of National French Fry Day, members of Burger King’s Royal Perks loyalty program can get a free order of fries of any size — small, medium or large — with any purchase via the app or BK.com. More reasons to join the Royal Perks program  This is one that starts on, er, Fry-day: Between July 14 and 16, you can get a free XL fries by using the app.  This one will last for days: Use the Wendy’s app from Thursday through Sunday and you can get a free fries. Courtesy of Hardee’s   A post shared by Hardee's (@hardees)  Alright so this one is funky. If you buy fries on Thursday, you can get FREE FRIES the next time you go, for the rest of 2023, as long as you spend at least $1 there. Fatburger Buffalo Express 04 From Cheapism: You’ll be able to get free fries at Fatburger through Sunday. Get an order of fat or skinny fries free with any purchase in-store or online starting Thursday. Just make sure you mention the promotion if you’re in store, or use code “FrenchFryDay23” online to redeem. Charley S Philly Cheesesteaks Walmart If you’re in their rewards program, you can get fries for $1. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy  





 
				© Copyright For The Win 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		