Scattered thunderstorms early, then cloudy skies after midnight. Low near 60F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 70%..
                                 Scattered thunderstorms early, then cloudy skies after midnight. Low near 60F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 70%.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 3:38 pm    Shannon McGinley NEW HAMPSHIRE should be the ideal place to work, have a family, and enjoy the benefits of generational proximity as children establish their own households in our beautiful state. That’s not what’s happening. The truth is that young people and their families are leaving our state in record numbers. Parents raising families here today know their children are likely to leave and never return. This isn’t just my opinion. The facts bear this out. We are now one of only three states in the country that is experiencing more deaths than births in every single county. Despite the alarm bells, we have continued in the wrong direction for some years. In their 2020 book, Communities & Consequences II, demographer Peter Francese and coauthor Lorraine Merrill note that New Hampshire is now second only to Maine in both our average age and the rate at which the state is aging. Just eleven years ago, as shared in their first documentary, Communities & Consequences, we were the sixth state, tied with Florida. New Hampshire also has rapidly declining public school enrollment. It boasts the dubious distinction of hemorrhaging the highest rate of graduating high school seniors in the country, most of whom permanently flee the state when they turn 18. And, in a further alarming sign when compared with the other 49 states, New Hampshire also saw the largest percentage decrease of children under 18 in the decade ending in 2020. That is a drop of 10.6%. Not only are New Hampshire children leaving the state, we are failing to attract others to move and stay here. It’s not about the availability of jobs. In 2022, our unemployment rate hit 2.1%, a rate not seen in 50 years. Companies are clamoring for workers. Why? After all, New Hampshire boasts a low-tax base, an enviable self-governance system at the local level, and good schools. But a deeper look reveals New Hampshire is also suffering a grave demographic crisis that has received far less attention than it deserves. As Ian Huyett pointed out in his recent article, New Hampshire’s rapidly aging population will spell disaster for our state and addressing this issue should be at the top of our priority list. The fact is that the majority of our aging New Hampshire communities are governed through the lens of viewing families and children as burdens, not as the fresh infusion of population and workers those communities so desperately need. As a result, older residents often see children as “not my problem,” and are opposed to supporting measures that would attract and keep younger generations. Does it really make sense to require that all homes in a town be built on expensive acre lots, to fail to invest in schooling, or to refuse to consider child tax credits? Certainly, not in the long run. But the costs for families like ours go far beyond economics or worker shortages. Demographic winter means our children are being frozen out of the state. We have proudly raised our family here and love New Hampshire and so do our five sons, but the chances of them settling here to raise their own families and our grandchildren are slim to none. It’s not difficult to understand why. As our older sons embark on their careers with my younger sons soon to follow, New Hampshire is not part of the discussion. Opportunities and the future lie elsewhere. Our children aren’t coming back. And the exodus is generational. I have watched more than one friend leave the state to be close to their children and grandchildren. It’s not that they wanted to leave. To choose family, they felt compelled to pack up and leave the state they love. It shouldn’t be that way. And it doesn’t have to be. If we can all acknowledge, whatever our age may be, that New Hampshire needs to attract and keep families and their children, better policy will follow. Then, instead of leaving to invest in other states’ economies and communities, our children and their extended families will stay right here in our beautiful state, so New Hampshire and her people can thrive for generations to come. Cornerstone Action Executive Director Shannon McGinley lives in Bedford. Shannon McGinley Click for guidelines and instructions to contribute an op-ed column. (500-800 words) THE Manchester Board of Mayor and Aldermen must reconsider the motion to remove Joe Kelly Levasseur as chairman. The initial vote, resulting in a 5-7 split with Aldermen Dan O’Neil and Bill Barry abstaining, failed to address a very serious issue that has been festering for far too long in t… MY SON recently asked me, “Why does it seem like human rights depend on skin color?”  THEY SAY a man’s home is his castle, but in today’s New Hampshire, too many of us are finding our castles crumbling beneath us. Colin Van Ostern’s Housing Affordability Plan seems like a step forward, but as renters and community organizers who witness these struggles daily, we feel it falls… KAMALA HARRIS and Tim Walz can’t hide from the past or their records.  ON 24 August 1812, Washington, D.C., was invaded and destroyed by the British. It was our sovereignty’s first invasion but not the last. The War of 1812 would leave an indelible imprint on the United States, teaching our young nation valuable lessons that are still relevant today. These less… THERE IS a lot of misinformation and ignorance concerning the situation between Israel and Palestinian terrorists in Gaza.  RECENT passage of Democratic legislation prohibiting the sale of many commonly used consumer products with toxic forever chemicals is a huge step forward for Granite Staters. We use products in our everyday lives without knowing if manufacturers have added PFAS to them. Most of us have a coc… Matthew Neuman, Esq. is a real estate attorney and the managing member and co-founder of Absolute Title, a full-service title insurance company with offices in Bedford, Concord, and Portsmouth. DISPLAYING some deceptive political footwork, Governor Chris Sununu posed as a moderate by signing HB 1205, claiming to separate sports in grades 5-12 by biological sex, while vetoing HB 396, a simple but crucial bill saying that separation based on biological sex is not illegal in New Hampshire.  RECENTLY in these pages, I urged Governor Chris Sununu to follow the example of one of his predecessors, Walter R. Peterson, a Republican who feared his party would drift too far to the right. In that April op-ed, I quoted a 2011 article from the NH Business Review that imagined Peterson’s l…  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.