Stock image Drugs to treat cancer, infections, abnormal blood pressure and pain are among 187 different medicines which are currently out of stock, a new index reveals today . Eleven of these drugs are on the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) “critical medicines list”. Last week it emerged there is a shortage of penicillin, the first-line treatment for strep A infection, and pharmacists warned they are having to turn to other antibiotics which have more side effects and contribute to drug resistance. Today’s index shows the extent of difficulties faced by patients accessing the preferred medicines prescribed by their doctor. Shortages are also seen in treatments for seizures, mental health and diabetes, and there continues to be problems sourcing some forms of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) The medicine shortage index was prepared by industry experts Azure Pharmaceuticals, which analysed data published by the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA), the medicines’ watchdog. It found that 40pc of medicines which are out of stock this month had just a single supplier leaving pharmacists without alternatives for patients. This compares badly with other countries in Europe where reliance on a single supplier accounts for 25pc of medicines, according to a recent European Commission report. Ireland is seen as being at a competitive disadvantage with other countries in Europe because prices for drugs here are lower. Drugs that are in short supply in Ireland and on the WHO’s critical list include the antibiotics penicillin and amoxicillin which are used to treat bacterial infections. Another is vinorelbine, which is a common chemotherapy drug. Commenting on the shortages, Sandra Gannon, managing director of Azure Pharmaceuticals, which is involved in supplying some of the older off-patent medicines, said: “Our analysis is further evidence that while the problem of medicine shortages is a global one, Ireland is increasingly an outlier when compared to neighbouring countries. “The consequence is that patients and pharmacists are in an ever-worsening situation. Patients will be increasingly anxious. Pharmacists are exposed by the reality of single-source supply situations, over-stretched doctors, and inflexibility to give them new mechanisms to respond.” She said: “We are paying the price for not paying the price. Since the end of 2019, there were clear signals that the policy of downward pressure on price was leaving Ireland increasingly exposed. “The disparity between Ireland and other EU markets has gone full circle and is particularly acute in older, low value medicines. Administratively, we have not adapted to the new global market reality. “Our reimbursement process means we are playing catch-up on other countries, missing opportunities to secure medicines, and overly reliant on single-sourced suppliers who are getting better prices elsewhere. Covid has exacerbated international supply chain challenges and exposed Ireland’s dependency on the low-price Asian market.” She said the price differential the State pays for paracetamol, which is also in short supply, is lagging and a factor in the shortage. In Ireland the reimbursement price for 100 tablets containing paracetamol is €1.73, while the average price for the same medicine across Europe is €3.51, a 51pc differential. She said: “Opening the door to alternative sources for medicines, which are single-source dependant can be transformative. “Medicines will continue to follow the best prices and until Ireland can better compete, shortages will continue. “It is also time to reflect on the learnings of Covid, broaden our manufacturing base, and de-risk our dependency on particularly markets.” The HPRA said where there is a shortage of any medicine, “alternative options such as alternative strengths, brands and generic medicines will be available to ensure continuity of treatment”. Join the Irish Independent WhatsApp channel Stay up to date with all the latest news