Going fast(er).                                                                               Story Highlights According to a video spotted by DSOGaming. RPCSX, the newly announced PlayStation 4 emulator made by the wonderful people behind RPCS3, was shown running Sonic Mania at a whopping 45 FPS. While this may not sound impressive to the average bloke because of course Sonic Mania isn’t particularly the most demanding game around, we have to keep in mind that this is some amazing progress for a project that started only recently.   Moreover, we also got a brief look at the game’s animated intro video which was glitched out as the emulator is still in a very early experimental phase. The video doesn’t show any in-game footage past the main menu, however. An additional note in the video itself states that this is because the input system still hasn’t been implemented on the emulator.  This isn’t the first game RPCSX has run either, back in July, the emulator ran its first commercial title. A twin-stick shooter title called “We Are Doomed” was developed by Vertex Pop marking its first exponential milestone. Already, a second game being able to run on the system is some superb progress. Just don’t expect to play any major PlayStation 4 exclusives for a long time.  Also Read Their previous project, RPCS3 was also a massive success, quickly becoming the de-facto PS3 emulator for public use. The emulator is now capable of running some of the system’s best titles at a respectable performance, these include games such as God of War 3, Demon’s Souls, Ninja Gaiden Sigma, and Asura’s Wrath to name a few. Furthermore, RPCS3 can now, at the bare minimum, boot every single title on the PS3 catalog.  Thanks! Do share your feedback with us. ⚡ How can we make this post better? Your help would be appreciated. ✍ Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           Experience: 4+ Years || Previously Worked At: Tech4Gamers || Education: Bachelors in English Literature. Enjoyed this article? Discuss the latest gaming news, get expert help with guides and errors, and chat about all things gaming on eXputer Forums and Discord Server. Connect with fellow gamers who share your passion by becoming a part of eXputer's community. 
					 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           
					These are challenging times for video game journalism, and we need your support. If eXputer has been part of your gaming journey, please consider becoming a Patreon member. Your contribution will help us continue delivering the content you love and keep our independent voice alive. Thank you for standing with us.
				 
	eXputer is a leading gaming-focused news and media website catering to a diverse readership across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC regions. Specializing in gaming news, guides, tier lists, game settings, and error fixes, eXputer also conducts interviews and offers exclusives, features, and leaks. Additionally, eXputer provides gaming tools such as a game recommendation engine, all built for gamers by gamers.
 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           © 2024 eXputer®. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. eXputer® is part of REDLUMB LLC FZ.