 SD Worx racer doubles up after time trial win earlier this week 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Lotte Kopecky claimed her second Belgian Nationals’ gold this week as she followed up Thursday’s victory in the time trial with a win in Sunday’s road race.  Widely tipped for victory beforehand, Kopecky had already taken the road race title in 2020 and 2021. And as she made that a National Road Champion’s hat-trick with a comfortable bunch sprint victory, she proved her status as top favourite was more than justified. Second in the 134 kilometre course starting and finishing in the West Flanders town of Izegem was Marthe Goossens (AG Insurance-Soudal-QuickStep) and Kelly Druyts (Duolar-Chevelmaire) took third. However, after closing down several late attacks then having ample fuel left in the tank for a bunch sprint, from the time trial to the road race, Kopecky’s dominance in this year’s Belgian Road Nationals was clear. Kopecky’s tenth victory of 2023 also finally enables her to put her considerable disappointment after losing the 2022 Championships - to the point where she memorably described it as “the most annoying race on the calendar “ -  behind her for good. This time round, “the race went much better than I expected,” Kopecky said. “Each time a kilometre ticked by, I felt pleased. I couldn’t react to everything, so I had to choose my battles. Sometimes I thought  'Shit, now I'm going to have to do it myself again' It was a bit of a gamble." "You also lose part of your strength for the sprint through those kinds of efforts, but I felt like I had control over the race." Fenix-Deceuninck and AG Insurance-Soudal-QuickStep did try to test Kopecky's strength during the race itself But no matter how serious the attack, even without teammates, the Belgian star managed to shut them down and into the final kilometres, the main group was still together. Then when it came down to the bunch sprint in Izegem, Kopecky was still so sure of herself she did not hesitate to lead out the dash for the line from the front. Kopecky said she did not risk making her final move too early, opting to wait until 200 meters before the line. “I no longer had any doubts. Now I can go to the Tour de France with this jersey,” she said, “I'm really looking forward to it." Results powered by FirstCycling Thank you for reading 5 articles in the past 30 days* Join now for unlimited access Enjoy your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 *Read any 5 articles for free in each 30-day period, this automatically resets After your trial you will be billed £4.99 $7.99 €5.99 per month, cancel anytime. Or sign up for one year for just £49 $79 €59 Join now for unlimited access Try your first month for just £1 / $1 / €1 The latest race content, interviews, features, reviews and expert buying guides, direct to your inbox! Alasdair Fotheringham has been reporting on cycling since 1991. He has covered every Tour de France since 1992 bar one, as well as numerous other bike races of all shapes and sizes, ranging from the Olympic Games in 2008 to the now sadly defunct Subida a Urkiola hill climb in Spain. As well as working for Cyclingnews, he has also written for The Independent,  The Guardian,  ProCycling, The Express and Reuters. Tour de France Femmes stage 8 Live - Vollering attacks on Col du Glandon Australian Cyclo-cross National Championships – Izzy Flint and Max Hobson claim elite titles Tour de France Femmes: Demi Vollering conquers Alpe d’Huez as Kasia Niewiadoma wins GC title Cyclingnews is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 