We independently evaluate the products we review. When you buy via links on our site, we may receive compensation. Read more about how we vet products and deals. Prime Day 2023 is officially over, but a slew of must-have sales are still happening. While Prime Day is technically an Amazon savings event, retailers like Walmart, Target, Wayfair, Home Depot and plenty of others served up Prime Day alternative deals — and many of them have been extended. That means you still have time to save! These stores have marked down overstock goods to make space for fresh new finds this fall. While they won't last much longer, you can still load up on everything from electronics and kitchen appliances to beauty and and clothing deals. Our team of shopping experts is here live with you, scouring the deals in real time. Scroll for our favorite extended Prime Day alternative deals and Amazon finds across the web. Amazon isn't the only one having a massive blowout event — Walmart+ Week runs through Thursday, July 13 and the deals are absolutely incredible Here are the hottest deals of the bunch: Amazon: Need a new bedroom TV? This wildly popular two-inch Insignia is just $65 (that's nearly 50% off). Best Buy: It's Black Friday in July! Score up to $600 off Samsung, LG, Sony and more TVs. Whether you're in the market for discreet new earbuds for your morning run or XXL cans for your next flight, you can score an impressive deal on your favorites from the both big brands and budget faves. Whether you're a pro gamer or a casual web surfer, you can score incredible deals on laptops, tablets and computers from Apple to Lenovo. Michelle Madhok, online shopping expert and founder of deals site SheFinds.com, recommends looking at home and kitchen appliances, including refrigerators, washing machines, blenders and air fryers — all categories with big savings. Home Depot: Save up to $1,000 on select kitchen appliances, plus score free delivery on appliances valued at $396 or more. HSN: Save a bundle on everything from cookware sets and small appliances to drinkware and furniture. Our Place: Save 20% on cult fave pans, pots and more. Solo Stove: Nab up to $300 off fire pits. Target: It's Circle Week! You'll get massive savings now through Saturday, July 15 on top home and kitchen brands, including Keurig, Ninja, KitchenAid and more. It's time to suck up some serious savings! We found great deals on everything from robovacs to stick vacs, upright models and even carpet steamers to get your floors in tip-top shape. Save on Hoover, Bissell, Shark and, yes, even Dyson. Amazon: Score nearly 50% off a Shark vac and pick up a robovac loved by 6,000+ fans for only a Benjamin. Dyson: Save up to $170 on cordless vacuums. Whether you're lusting after cooling sheets, a plush new pillow or a cloud-like mattress, you can score it for a dreamy price this Prime Day. Here are the biggest deals you can't miss. Amazon: Enjoy a full mattress for $291, plus bestselling sheets for a steal. Brooklinen: Take advantage of 20% off bestselling bedding and other comfy favorites sitewide. Bear: Take 35% off sitewide and get $400 worth of free accessories with the purchase of a mattress. Casper: Save up to 20% sitewide. Helix: Enjoy 25% off sitewide using code JULY25, and get two free pillows with all mattress orders. Nectar: Take 33% off sitewide — prices start at just $359. Parachute: Save up to 50% on everything from bed and bath linens to robes and slippers. Saatva: Take up to $600 off bestselling mattresses, bedding and furniture. Sleep Number: Save up to $1,200 on smart beds and enjoy steep discounts on pillows, bedding and furniture. Wayfair: Take advantage of the retailer's 72-hour clearout sale. Now's the time to snag that sundress! "Many clothing brands and beauty companies participate in Prime Day too, offering discounts on their products," Madhok says. "This includes makeup, skin care, clothing and shoes." Here's what's still on sale that shouldn't be missed. Amazon: Save big on bestsellers including beach cover ups, breezy dresses, cooling wireless bras and summer sandals. Coach: Fill your cart with sale styles — including leather goods and accessories — for a sweet 50% off. Lululemon: Even though Lululemon's We Made Too Much event happens all year round, there's new items added to get you through the week. Macy's: Save up to 70% on select sale and clearance items. Madewell: Enjoy up to 70% off sale styles, and snap up a new pair of top-rated jeans for just $50 (select styles only). Nike: Save up to 60% on popular sneakers and more, plus use code ULTIMATE for 20% off select styles. Nordstrom: The anticipated Anniversary sale is in previews — everyone gets access on July 17. Zappos: Summer clearance is on! Save on Brooks, Steve Madden and more. The biggest beauty brands, including Clinique and L'Oreal, are getting in on the extended Prime Day action. Nordstrom: Score a gift set from Kiehl's, La Mer, Kate Somerville and more — no one has to know if you're getting it for you. Score $30 off these low-profile buds — but hurry, as we don't expect stock to last long. This popular laptop is still on sale for extended Prime Day. Enjoy cool perks like a touchscreen and an Intel Core i3-1115G4 processor for speedy use. See all of our Prime Day coverage. Shop the best Prime Day deals on Yahoo Life. Follow Engadget for the best Amazon Prime Day tech deals. Learn about Prime Day trends on In the Know. Hear from Autoblog’s car experts on must-shop auto-related Prime Day deals and find Prime Day sales to shop on AOL, handpicked just for you. The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.