A thriller inspired by Stephen King, a disco-loving nun and puppets with filthy mouths are all running wild, spreading drama and laughter across Delaware's theater scene early this year.  There also are a bunch of other top-flight theater productions being produced across the state in January and February. The overwhelming majority of these shows are easy to follow, so you won't need a theater degree to enjoy them.  From family-friendly shows to an adult-themed production, here's a fun preview of seven events you won't want to miss over the next few weeks.  You might say this show is second to nun.  Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Tickets are selling like crazy. Twelve of the 18 shows scheduled have sold out online, but patrons are encouraged to call to see if tickets are still available for those dates.   "Sister Act" follows a disco-loving woman who is placed in protective custody after she witnesses a murder. To keep her safe, law enforcement decides she'll be perfectly fine if she hides in a convent and pretends to be a nun.     From there, the worlds of disco and gospel collide in a silly, yet heartwarming show.   Candlelight Theatre (2208 Millers Road, Wilmington). Show dates are from Wednesday, Jan. 25 to Sunday, Feb. 26. Tickets are $69. For more info, visit candlelighttheatredelaware.org or (302) 475-2313.   Stephen King's novel "Misery" comes to life on the small stage in horrific fashion.   Successful novelist Paul Sheldon suffers a car crash and gets rescued by Annie, the writer's greatest fan.     But this isn't little orphan Annie with the cute red hair, who inspired Jay-Z to make one of his biggest songs.   This is Annie Wilkes, an obsessed, gray-haired woman who kidnaps and tortures her favorite writer, letting him know that this is still a hard-knock life.  Clear Space Theatre Company (20 Baltimore Ave., Rehoboth Beach). Show dates are from Thursday, Jan. 26 to Sunday, Feb. 5. Tickets start at $20. For more info, visit clearspacetheatre.org or (302) 227-2270.   A poor guy is fired from a band, so naturally he ends up working for a gangster to keep money in his pockets. But things end up getting extra screwy in the British romp "One Man, Two Guvnors," which is off-the-wall crazy.   Delaware Theatre Company (200 Water St., Wilmington). Shows dates are from Wednesday, Feb. 1 through Sunday, Feb. 19. Tickets start at $27. For more info, visitdelawaretheatre.org (302) 594-1100.   Do you secretly turn into a little kid whenever you see pets patrolling the aisles of Walmart or Lowe's?   Then you and others like you will feel right at home at Popovich Comedy Pet Theater, a European-style circus show where super smart pets (including dogs and house cats) hang out with humans under the same roof.  The Grand (818 N. Market St., Wilmington) at 2 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 4. Tickets are $28. For more info, visitthegrandwilmington.org or (800) 37-GRAND.  It's the early 1900s and a cold-blooded Soviet officer is after a young woman on the run. Patrons will go back in time from the end of the Russian empire to the bliss of Paris in 1920 in the Broadway production "Anastasia," a show about family, love and mystery.  The Playhouse on Rodney Square (1007 N. Market St., Wilmington). Show dates are from Thursday, Feb. 9 through Sunday, Feb. 12. Tickets start at $48. For more info, visit thegrandwilmington.org or (800) 37-GRAND.  Joan Didion suddenly loses her husband and their only daughter. "The Year of Magical Thinking" is a one-woman show about grief and loss based on Didion's Pulitzer Prize-nominated memoir of the same name.   City Theatre Company (The Delaware Contemporary, 200 S. Madison St., Wilmington). Show dates are from Friday, Feb. 10 through Saturday, Feb. 18 Tickets start at $30. For more info, visitcity-theater.org.   Imagine watching a musical about adulthood told by puppets who love to swear.   Welcome to the rated-R production “Avenue Q.” It’s a musical comedy that follows a college grad who moves into a rundown New York apartment in Avenue Q.   While his neighbors appear normal, the graduate eventually learns he’s in a strange place. To make matters worse, the man and his buddies find it challenging to land dates and keep jobs.    This show is for adults only.   The Everett (47 W. Main St., Middletown). Show dates are from Friday, Feb. 10 through Sunday, Feb. 19. Tickets are $22. For more info, visit everetttheatre.com or (302) 378-7038.  Concerts in 2023: The return of Nelly, party for Swifties & more 2023 Delaware highlights No Firefly, No Cry: Plenty of Delaware entertainment to love in 2023 More:'Bow to your queen!' Aubrey Plaza uses SNL monologue to remind Biden who rules Delaware Sip on these: 3 frosty Delaware festivals brewing in early 2023 Phylicia Rashad, Slick Rick & more: Lots of celebs Delaware-bound in 2023 Longwood Gardens: They're tucking visitors into a warm flowerbed of Winter Wonder Andre Lamar is the features/lifestyle reporter. If you have an interesting story idea, email Andre Lamar at alamar@gannett.com.