We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Published 5 September 2023 The consultation period for this application has ended. You can view current licences on the Public Registers. 

 
  © Crown copyright 2023
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/b66-2bz-dunton-technologies-limited-environmental-permit-application-advertisement-eprwe8923abv002/b66-2bz-dunton-technologies-limited-environmental-permit-application-advertisement-eprwe8923abv002
 The Environment Agency has received an application to vary an environmental permit under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 involving substantial change to a permit from Dunton Technologies Limited. EPR/WE8923AB/V002 Section 5.3 A(1)(a)(i), Section 5.3 A(1)(a)(vi), Section 5.6 A1(a): Hazardous waste treatment. The process is the treatment of contaminated soils via physio-chemical treatment and bioremediation in an indoor facility with a maximum of treatment capacity of 215,000 tonnes of hazardous waste per year. The principal treatment objective is to render the waste materials non hazardous and appropriate for re-use. 

Bridge Street North Waste Treatment Facility
Bridge Street North
Smethwick
B66 2BZ

 The application contains a description of how the proposed change(s) may affect: the installation the materials, substances and energy it will use and generate the source, nature and quantity of its foreseeable emissions and their significant effects on the environment the proposed techniques for preventing, reducing, and monitoring its emissions and preventing and recovering waste If you have any comments on the application send these by 03/10/2023. You can comment:
Online: view and comment on the application using Citizen Space Via email: pscpublicresponse@environment-agency.gov.uk For advice about how to make a representation or if you are unable to make a representation via e-mail, please call 03708 506 506. The Environment Agency will normally put any comments it receives on the public register. This includes your name but not your personal contact details. Please tell us if you do not want your response to be public. The privacy notice for permit applicants/operators can be viewed at Privacy Notice Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      