We all have our strengths. Dancing is not one of mine. I’ve never considered myself a dancer and I don't have much rhythm. That said, I love fun music and watching others move and groove on TikTok is one of my favorite pastimes. Enter: my foray into Jazzercise. I’m not ashamed of my lack of skills, but I don’t necessarily love to dance. What I do love, though, is a new challenge (especially if it involves working out), so when I had the opportunity to try Jazzercise for two weeks, I was intrigued. I was a little skeptical at first and TBH, I didn’t realize Jazzercise was still around in 2023. I had only heard of the dance cardio class from older family members, and the thought of dancing for my workout didn’t seem like the most challenging or exciting modality. Jazzercise has been around for over 50 years (!) and is the *OG* dance cardio class. I knew there had to be something special about the method. There’s a reason it’s stood the test of time. For personal context, I am a fitness class enthusiast who has never done a group aerobics session. I typically opt for hot yoga, reformer Pilates, and Peloton workouts. I feed off the energy of others and love when a motivational instructor is leading the charge. Oh, and upbeat workout playlists always keep me motivated, so I went into the challenge with an open mind. My goal for the two weeks was not to overhaul my entire fitness routine, but to explore new ways to move and tone my body. I’m a creature of habit and typically stick to the workouts I know and love. I was curious to see how my weekly training would benefit from a new program. Here are my (unfiltered!) thoughts and what results I noticed during two weeks of Jazzercise workouts. Jazzercise is a combination of aerobic exercise, HIIT cardio, dance, and resistance training that focuses on choreographed movement. Jazzercise On Demand workouts range from 10 to 50 minutes, and there are routines focused on upper body, lower body, core, and cardio endurance. Jazzercise does offer in-person classes, but there wasn't a studio where I live. I committed to On Demand classes at least four times a week. I got my selection of classes for my two-week journey direct from the Jazzercise coaches. My schedule consisted of Cardio Sculpt, Cardio, Power Sculpt, and Band Blast formats. Most classes ranged 20 to 40 minutes, and some required zero equipment, while others needed a set of dumbbells and/or resistance bands. For the shorter workouts (10, 20, or 30 minutes), I typically supplemented with my own cardio regimen. The 20-minute workouts were a great warm-up for a run or cycle class, and the 10-minute sessions were a killer finisher. The longer 40-minute workouts were a full body burn, so I didn't need any other sweats for the day.  Given that Jazzercise is rooted in dance cardio, I began with the Kickstarter collection to familiarize myself with core movements and choreography. For example, one dance pattern: march in place for eight counts, roll the shoulders back for four counts, then squat for four counts before repeating the sequence. Each workout begins with a dynamic warm-up, followed by a quick stretch and preview of the upcoming routine. The coach primes you for what to expect and demonstrates the basic moves with simple instructions. I was able to catch on quickly without previous dance knowledge. I will admit, I was a little embarrassed and felt silly performing the routines. The dance moves were totally out of my comfort zone. After three days of dancing and doing my best during the Cardio classes, I had a mini breakthrough after the coach said, “we all have different styles,” and “no one is watching you." Once I realized that my dance skills didn’t need to match the experienced coach, I took myself less seriously. I was alone in my apartment…literally no one was watching me. I added intensity with classes like Power Sculpt, which is HIIT-based and packed with compound exercises, and Band Blast, incorporating resistance bands. My heart rate was constantly elevated, and my *entire* body was putting in the work. I certainly felt the cardio endurance effects. There was still a fair amount of dance cardio, which served as a welcome active recovery between the strength circuits. At the end of a 40-minute class, I was satisfied with my workout and shimmering in sweat. After each Band Blast class, my body was always left quaking. My arms, in particular, were working at a whole new level using resistance bands. Instead of solely focusing on reps and sets, the instructors explained it was about creating time under tension. As a result, I noticed my smaller stabilizer muscles were put to the test, and the larger muscle groups were activated in both the concentric (muscles shortening) and eccentric (muscles lengthening) part of muscle contraction. Resistance bands were a game changer for me. Not only did I learn to feel (and embrace) the burn, but the Jazzercise instructors kept me focused on the proper movement patterns and form. I knew resistance bands work and have the power to totally transform your muscle composition, but before Jazzercise, I didn’t have much experience using them. I primarily train with dumbbells and/or bodyweight. As soon as I tried the Band Blast classes, I was instantly obsessed with bands. Another perk? Resistance band classes are so versatile. Whether I was in my small apartment, at the gym, or on vacay, I was confident I could knock out a 20- or 30-minute class and tone my entire body. Resistance bands are here to stay in my routine. After only two weeks, I could see and feel my muscles leveling-up. Even though I regularly strength train, the resistance band workouts targeted my muscles in a new way. It’s no secret I didn’t love dance cardio nor was I very good at it, but that doesn’t mean it was invaluable. I still had fun with it, and that's ultimately what matters. Sure, the moves can feel cheesy and a little elementary, but after a long day of sitting at a desk, dancing it out was refreshing and sometimes exactly what I needed. I learned to appreciate a dance break. In every class I completed, combination exercises were a huge part of the choreography. The instructors frequently paired two different movements together to be performed as one. For example, using dumbbells for biceps curls while simultaneously doing mini squats with a resistance band. It sounds complex, but I got the hang of it after a few reps and turned my focus to form. Instead of rushing or trying to stay on beat with the music, I focused on maximizing each rep. It was well worth the mental and physical challenge. Compound exercises are super effective. Working my upper and lower body at the same time? Say less.  Ultimately, I have no regrets dedicating two weeks to Jazzercise and would encourage others to give the classes a try—especially if you love to dance! As the saying goes, what’s old is new again, and Jazzercise certainly has a lot more to offer than aerobics. You Might Also Like Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.