Retail’s embrace of artificial intelligence has pushed bots to new corners of the shopping experience — and not just for new products or traditional e-tailers, but also secondary sales platforms like Mercari. Last week, the peer-to-peer selling platform launched a beta test for Merchat AI, a conversational shopping assistant based on OpenAI’s ChatGPT. More from WWD Up Close with The RealReal's 'Joy of Making and Creating' Recollection 04 2020 Holiday Gift Ideas: Google's Top Searched Beauty, Home and Tech Gifts Inside the Jacquard by Google Exhibit in Paris “I’ve been following AI for a long time, and I feel like often we’ve had a hard time really getting new users to understand how deep our inventory is,” John Lagerling, chief executive officer of Mercari’s U.S. division, told WWD. “We have so many unique items. And we felt like just the clean search experience doesn’t always guide people to find all those treasures that are hidden in all these categories that we have.” The value of applying data science in the back end for any type of retail is evident — the mere fact that AI can track myriad inventory levels and supply chains across regions, and in real time, is enough for brands and retailers to amp up their tech investments. But it’s especially valuable in resale, which doesn’t deal in large volume orders or lots, but individualized offerings that vary at any given moment, depending on what people have to sell. “When these LLMs [large language models] started getting to the level that I noticed in the last couple of months,” he added, “I felt like this could really be something that could help guide people through the treasure hunting.” LLMs involve enormous data sets that train and refine AI and machine learning models, allowing them to evolve into more sophisticated systems much faster. Mercari has been organizing its data for the last two years to prepare for the advent of genuinely useful, usable retail AI. In essence, it got everything ready and then waited for the tech to become good enough. It’s not an unusual data strategy, perhaps particularly for Lagerling, who hails from Google. The overarching vision that he adopted from his previous employer was to use technology to make things easier. That inspired Mercari to lay the groundwork and then, when OpenAI launched its development tools for its ChatGPT AI bot in March, it was able to connect Mercari’s data to the AI engine was quickly, creating the bot in as little as two weeks. At first blush, its feature set looks robust. Merchat AI can offer gift suggestions or recommend items that fit the latest trends, search hard-to-find collectibles and even offer styling tips in apparel or home goods. It’s not limited to a select audience either, so anyone can take it for a test spin online. But Lagerling made clear that this is not an official roll-out. The company launched Merchat AI as a test feature, and by calling it that, Mercari is acknowledging that it doesn’t have the polish of a final version. It’s live on the web, but not available through the mobile app, and it doesn’t offer deeper features, like saving or favoriting historical chats. ChatGPT itself isn’t perfect either, so fundamentally, flawed recommendations or other unexpected behavior could still pop up. That wasn’t enough to hold up the project, though. “I think we sometimes have a tendency to look for perfection before we make things available,” the CEO continued. “But we felt like it was kind of magical enough, [and] we shouldn’t hold that back.” A judicious release that aims to set reasonable expectations seems like a rarity in the often hyped-up, tech-fueled world. But platforms may be realizing that this type of strategy is in order, especially with bots. Because simply deploying AI to the public comes with no guarantee of success — as Snapchat recently learned. Last week, the social media app added its own ChatGPT-powered bot, called My AI, to messaging inboxes without permission or consent, then immediately saw a surge of one-star reviews hammer its app store page. Mercari’s introduction takes a more measured approach, at least for now. But the popular Tokyo-based shopping platform has more than 50 million downloads in the U.S. alone and 350,000 new listings daily, so a full launch of Merchat AI could eventually flood the resale zone. Best of WWD Retailers Leverage First Insight for ESG Alignment What Steph Curry's Sneaker NFTs Can Teach Fashion Year in Review: Brands, Retailers Go Hyper-digital in a Challenging Landscape Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.