The global hype surrounding the potential benefits of AI has captured the attention of the business world and beyond, so it’s no surprise that new and existing SaaS startups are integrating it into their products. According to one recent survey, 35% of SaaS businesses already use AI, while another 42% plan to in the near future. Yet the potential risks are as numerous as the benefits, and this reality creates challenges to building AI into SaaS applications. We’re excited to have three leading experts who can unpack those challenges on the SaaS Stage at TechCrunch Disrupt 2023, which takes place September 19–21 in San Francisco. Panelists — including Ines Chami, chief scientist, Numbers Station; David DeSanto, chief product officer, GitLab; and Navrina Singh, founder and CEO, Credo AI — will join us for a discussion called “AI for SaaS.” The discussion will center around whether, why and how you should make AI part of your core product. And, given AI’s well-known bias and toxicity problem (algorithms can end up discriminating against or causing harm to certain segments of customers), how to do so ethically and responsibly. Other areas we’ll look at include jumping on the AI bandwagon (not every problem requires AI to find a solution), the risks associated with cloud-based AI and uploading sensitive data through a third-party server, and the potential liability issues stemming from using AI trained on public and even copyrighted data. We’ll also likely touch on regulation — like the EU’s AI Act, which may introduce roadblocks to implementing AI in SaaS.  Learn more about our speakers — and their qualifications for tackling this challenging topic — below. Ines Chami received her PhD from the Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering at Stanford University. Prior to attending Stanford, she studied mathematics and computer science at École Centrale Paris.  Chami is particularly excited about building intelligent models to automate data-intensive work. Her work spans applications such as knowledge graph construction and data cleaning. For her work on graph representation learning, Chami won the 2021 Stanford Gene Golub Doctoral Dissertation Award. While getting her PhD, she interned at Microsoft AI and Research and Google Research, where she co-authored the graph representation learning chapter of Kevin Murphy’s book “Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction.” David DeSanto focuses on delivering a stellar product experience to GitLab's users from startups to global enterprises. He leads GitLab's Product division (product management, product monetization and operations, user experience) to define and execute GitLab's product vision and roadmap.  He is responsible for facilitating strong collaboration between product, engineering, the CEO and other executives. DeSanto also leverages customer and industry feedback to build, ship and support products that improve GitLab's position within the DevSecOps market. DeSanto holds an MS in cybersecurity from New York University and a BS in computer science from Millersville University of Pennsylvania. He is a frequent speaker at major international conferences on topics such as threat intelligence, cloud security, GNSS security issues and SSL/TLS issues, in addition to being the co-author of “Threat Forecasting." Navrina Singh is the founder and CEO of Credo AI, an AI governance platform that empowers organizations to deliver and embed artificial intelligence responsibly by proactively measuring, monitoring and managing AI risks.  Before founding Credo AI, Singh spent nearly two decades building products in mobile, SaaS and AI at companies like Microsoft and Qualcomm. She is a member of the U.S. Department of Commerce National Artificial Intelligence Advisory Committee (NAIAC), which advises the president and the National AI Initiative Office. Singh is also a young global leader with the World Economic Forum and currently served as an executive board member of Mozilla, supporting its trustworthy AI charter. She lives in Palo Alto with her family. TechCrunch Disrupt 2023 takes place in San Francisco on September 19–21. You can save up to $600, but the deadline is August at 11:59 p.m. PDT. Hurry and buy your Disrupt pass today! Is your company interested in sponsoring or exhibiting at TechCrunch Disrupt 2023? Contact our sponsorship sales team by filling out this form. Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen When Marlon realised his daughter was being groomed and sexually exploited by grown men, he engaged with police, doing everything he could to keep his 14-year-old child safe.  "For a child who has been groomed and then taken to a police station to be strip searched is just massively inappropriate, its appalling," says Marlon.  The search was conducted by female officers in front of a glass door, says Marlon, meaning she was also visible to male officers. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Todor Merdjanov spent one month at Kim Il Sung University in Pyongyang in 2013. He wants more people to know what the country is like from the inside. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Keep up to date as Arsenal look set to complete £30m swoop while Chelsea continue their new striker search All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window Donald Trump has posted a series of AI-generated images on his Truth Social account falsely claiming that Taylor Swift has endorsed him for president. On Sunday night, Trump shared several screenshots of X posts showing women wearing “Swifties for Trump” shirts. Many of the photos appear to have been doctored, and one screenshot is of … Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv The Longting Bridge in Guizhou, China collapsed on August 8 after a large crack was discovered on August 7. Authorities blocked the bridge on both sides, no one was injured. The bridge was constructed in the 1960s and had no steel reinforcement.