Mark Zuckerberg is going all-in on artificial intelligence and his latest idea to make it possible for everyone to have their own Jarvis. He's trying to make this a reality to an extent by bringing AI personalities people can interact with on Meta Platforms Inc.'s META Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and Facebook. What Happened: Zuckerberg marked Meta's entry in the AI chatbot wars, bringing several AI characters to Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and Facebook. See Also: ‘iPhone Of AI’: OpenAI’s Sam Altman, Apple Design Legend Jony Ive And SoftBank’s Masayoshi Son Explore A New Venture Imagine having your own Jarvis, an AI designed by Tony Stark, which also doubles up as a butler and Stark's friend. Zuckerberg is trying to recreate that vision with his own AI – he has even named it Jarvis, drawing inspiration from the Iron Man series. Now, Zuckerberg wants his users to have a similar experience. While existing chatbots like ChatGPT and Claude are very conversational, they still don't feel natural. Zuckerberg's vision seems to be trying to solve that. Meta has dozens of personalities and celebrities you can choose from to give it a slightly special touch. These personalities include a fitness coach, a travel agent, and more. Celebrities include Kendall Jenner, Charli D'Amelio, Dwyane Wade, Snoop Dogg, MrBeast, and Paris Hilton. Soon, you could be talking with these personalities and celebrities like they are your friend, personal coach, butler, or even an assistant. However, Zuckerberg wants to ensure people know these AI characters are not real. "It’ll be clear to people that they’re not interacting with the physical Kylie Jenner, it would be kind of an AI version," he told The Verge. Why It's Important: While the different use cases of AI have been demonstrated throughout the year – ranging from chatbots to art creation and healthcare – locking in the consumers remains lucrative given the large market companies can address. Chatbots like ChatGPT might lose user interest beyond a point, and that's why integrating these AI technologies into different consumer products is the next step for AI firms. For instance, OpenAI is looking to build the iPhone for AI, and it is tapping former Apple designer Sir Jony Ive and SoftBank Group Corp.'s SFTBF Masayoshi Son to launch a new venture. On the other hand, Meta's response is to integrate its AI into its apps – Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and Facebook. This alone gives the company access to billions of users. Check out more of Benzinga’s Consumer Tech coverage by following this link. Read Next: Zuckerberg Talks About How Musk’s Acquisition Fueled His Ambition To Build A Universal Version Of Twitter, AI, Mixed Reality and More © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.