Watch CBS News 
                          We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
                       
    By
                        
                      Matt Richardson
 
    Edited By
                        
                      Angelica Leicht
 
September 15, 2023 / 2:59 PM EDT
          / CBS News
         When it comes to insurance policies and the protections they afford, the types are usually broken down into two categories: Those that you are mandated to have and those that you can opt in to. In the former category, you'll find home, auto and health insurance. Millions of Americans are familiar with these types due to the legal requirements mandating that they be secured. There are other insurances, however, that fall into the second category that may not be mandated but could still be valuable. Pet insurance, for example, is one. Life insurance is another. While not often mandated, life insurance can be particularly valuable to have, even for younger people who may view it as an extra financial burden. Term life insurance, however, can be both valuable and cost-effective for young people and it can be easily secured now. Start by getting a free life insurance quote here to learn more. Here are three reasons why term life insurance is valuable for younger people. Younger people are generally considered to be healthier, and, thus, less of a risk to insure. That lower risk will usually be reflected in lower monthly and annual premiums passed on to the policyholder. Each birthday that passes will only make life insurance more expensive.  But if you apply now, when you're as young as you ever will be, you'll maximize your chances of getting inexpensive life insurance. And if you take certain steps, like bundling your plan with your other policies, you may be eligible for a discount. Get a free price estimate to learn more. Not only will term life insurance cost less for younger people, but the coverage options will generally be more robust than if you had waited. It's not unusual for those under 40 to get $1 million or more in coverage for less than $100 a month.  That could be well worth it, particularly if you have family members or beneficiaries who depend on you or if you have a mortgage or other debts that will get passed on in your absence. Then, many experts would argue, that life insurance actually is mandatory. It's always better to have financial peace of mind instead of worrying about the future. This is always true, but especially now when prices are high and inflation has eroded the purchasing power of your dollar. You'll want to make sure your loved ones are protected should the worst-case scenario arise.  Term life insurance can do that, giving you peace of mind by knowing that there's a backup plan in place. Just be sure to shop around to find the best and most affordable plans. Otherwise, you could get stuck with a policy that's too expensive and not particularly valuable. Get a life insurance quote here now or use the below table to start shopping providers. Don't get caught up with perceptions. Life insurance, particularly in a term format, can be advantageous for adults old and young. For the latter group, it's advantageous due to the generally lower costs and great coverage options. But it also has more important, less tangible benefits, like peace of mind, which no one can put an exact price tag on.  Have more questions? Get started here now! Matt Richardson is the managing editor for the Managing Your Money section for CBSNews.com. He writes and edits content about personal finance ranging from savings to investing to insurance. 
© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.