Some companies are giving shares to environmental groups, or putting such advocates on their board. Winemakers in the Napa Valley are having to battle wildfires affecting vineyards and wineries. Morocco plans to send renewable energy to Europe, but some want it to save it for its home market. The South American country has become the world's largest exporter of the berries in only a decade. With Russian vodkas no longer on shelves around the world, Ukrainian brands have filled the gap. Winemakers in the Napa Valley are having to battle wildfires affecting vineyards and wineries. The firms aiming to help eradicate invasive species by making commercial use of them. Makers of sweets and chocolates are aiming to shield customers from their higher costs. Morocco plans to send renewable energy to Europe, but some want it to save it for its home market. How researchers are pinning their hopes on a climate-resilient coffee species. The global B Corp business accreditation scheme rewards firms that behave ethically. The global spices sector is thriving as the pandemic is said to have made people try more recipes. A number of rail operators are launching new sleeper train services across the continent. The boss of a leading microchip maker warns without huge investment companies will go abroad. The BBC's Zeinab Badawi hosts a discussion on the likely lasting economic damage of Covid-19. The chief executive of Qatar Airways says he's cutting one in five staff and aircraft. Shops and restaurants are selling less, but goods are still arriving at warehouses around the UK. Monica Miller explains the alphabet soup of possible recession shapes for the coronavirus-hit global economy. How one of the most profitable leisure industries in the world can also be one of the most polluting. A growing number of people are choosing to hire a bicycle over a long period of time. Falling river levels are affecting the use of cargo riverboats around the world. Croatia switched to the euro on 1 January, but many feel businesses are taking advantage by hiking their prices. The rivalry is entering a new phase, with global players increasingly caught in the crossfire. Small businesses around the world are being impacted by currency swings and soaring costs. In Swedish Lapland herders say their animals are being affected by wind farms and other industry. The global brewing giants highlight a brand's nationality but does it matter when they brew it overseas? Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.  