LACEY - Four people died Tuesday in a house fire in the Lanoka Harbor section, said Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley D. Billhimer. The four victims inside the two-story home on Buttonwood Drive lost their lives when the roof of the house collapsed. Attempts were made to rescue the victims, but firefighters were forced to evacuate the interior of the residence once the roof had fallen in, Billhimer said. A female victim was rescued from the back of the home and she was taken to Community Medical Center in Toms River for treatment. The names, genders and ages of the victims who died in the fire were not released on Tuesday night. The name and age of the surviving female was also not made public at this time. “This is an absolutely tragic situation,” Billhimer said. “Sadly, four of the occupants of the residence perished in this fire.” “It’s a sad day for Lacey, and our prayers and thoughts go out to the victims and their families,” Mayor Timothy McDonald told the Asbury Park Press earlier in the day. The afternoon blaze in a neighborhood behind the Good Luck Cemetery was located in a split-level, single-family home, where a neighbor said a number of cars and trailers spilled over from the driveway onto the front yard. The fire triggered a major response from area first responders, including the Prosecutor’s Office and Sheriff’s Department. McDonald said he anticipated a lengthy investigation. Hours after the fire was first reported at 12:30 p.m., billowing smoke could be seen from the opening in the top of the house. A burning odor filled the neighborhood, where police and sheriff’s officers had blocked off several streets. Firefighters and first aid crews from Lacey and its neighboring towns were on the scene. An investigation into the origin and cause of the fire is being conducted by the Arson Unit of the Prosecutor's Office, the Detective Bureau of the Lacey Police Department, the Crime Scene Investigations Unit of the Sheriff's Office, the Ocean County Fire Marshal’s Office and the New Jersey State Fire Marshal’s Office, the prosecutor explained. “More information will be released as it becomes available,” Billhimer said. This is a developing story. Stay with app.com for updates.