Consensus estimates are based on estimates collected by Sharenet and are calculated by taking the arithmetic average of the constituent analyst forecasts. Consensus estimates data are based on "SELL-SIDE" analysts' opinions, projections, and predictions regarding listed companies' performance. It does not represent Sharenet's own views on performance. Sharenet endeavours to ensure that consensus estimates data is accurate and up to date, but it is not under an obligation to update the consensus data, revise or supplement the consensus figures to reflect circumstances existing after the date hereof. Sharenet does not accept any liability whatsoever for reliance upon, or actions taken based on, any of the information set out in consensus estimates. Consensus estimates are forward-looking and as such are speculative and rely on assumptions and events in the future (some or all of which may not be satisfied or may not occur). Risk Disclosure: Sharenet will not accept any liability for loss or damage as a result of reliance on the information contained within this website including data, quotes, charts and buy/sell signals. Please be fully informed regarding the risks and costs associated with trading the financial markets, it is one of the riskiest investment forms possible. Currency trading on margin involves high risk, and is not suitable for all investors. Trading or investing in crypto currencies carries with it potential risks. Prices of crypto currencies are extremely volatile and may be affected by external factors such as financial, regulatory or political events. Crypto currencies are not suitable for all investors. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange or any other financial instrument or crypto currencies you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. Sharenet would like to remind you that the data contained in this website is not necessarily real-time nor accurate. All CFDs (stocks, indexes, futures), Forex and crypto currencies prices are not provided by exchanges but rather by market makers, and so prices may not be accurate and may differ from the actual market price, meaning prices are indicative and not appropriate for trading purposes. Therefore Sharenet doesn't bear any responsibility for any trading losses you might incur as a result of using this data. Sharenet may be compensated by the advertisers that appear on the website, based on your interaction with the advertisements or advertisers. Market Statistics are calculated by Sharenet and are therefore not the official JSE Market Statistics. The calculation/derivation may include underlying JSE data. Sharenet Group of Companies are authorised financial services providers. Sharenet Securities FSP#: 28430 | Sharenet Wealth FSP#: 41688 © 2024 SHARENET (PTY) Ltd, Cape Town, South Africa For more information about the Coronavirus (COVID-19), please visit https://sacoronavirus.co.za. As the world continues to face challenges in dealing with the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we are taking steps to provide some safety measures to our clients and staff. Given the wide-ranging impact of the pandemic and in line with advice from government and the World Health Organisation (WHO), limiting unnecessary human contact is an invaluable precaution. We therefore strongly encourage you to use our suite of digital tools and trading platforms for your financial needs. Digital platforms provide an efficient, fast, safe and nearly instantaneous solution to many, if not all your investing requirements, away from public spaces. KEEPING EVERYONE SAFE 
			The safety of our employees and clients is something that we care deeply about. While the extent of COVID-19 is still unknown, our plans have the necessary flexibility to evolve as the situation requires. As a result, Sharenet will unfortunately not be accommodating client meetings at a branch level, for the forceable future. As soon as the situation changes, we will advise you, our valuable clients accordingly. ONLINE SAFETY 
			The widespread concern around COVID-19 creates the perfect opportunity for cybercriminals to defraud customers. To ensure protection against targeted ransomware and Malware attacks, remember to install the latest version of a Multi-layered Antivirus program and never share your account details online or via email. Sharenet remains fully operational and should you experience any technical difficulty, rest assured that our superior support staff is ready to assist with any technical queries and can be reached on: Tel: +27 (0)21 7004800
			Email: support@sharenet.co.za We thank you for your understanding. 
			All the best to you and your loved ones. 