One dog lost two legs in an explosive blast wave, another had been shot Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters ITV vet Scott Miller swapped the This Morning sofa for war-torn Ukraine. Dr Scott, 48, is used to chatting with Holly and Phil in comfort. But he recently spent a week in the Ukraine saving abandoned animals. The married dad-of-four helped perform surgery on maimed pets and give out food to residents. He said: "I'm still processing the whole experience to be honest." Scott, who has been a vet for 26 years, flew out to Suceava in Romania on January 20. He then crossed the border into Ukraine and drove four hours to the city of Vinnytsia. There he linked up with charity Breaking The Chains, which is made up of ex-military personnel. The volunteers rescue stray animals in Ukraine and deliver pet and farm owners vital food and supplies. Scott's experience meant he was a useful pair of hands for the charity and he was quickly called into action. A Staffordshire Bull Terrier that had been shot desperately needed surgery after developing an infection. Scott was tasked with amputating his toe in a shelter - and had to use a torch when the electricity went out. He said: "This dog had been shot in the back by Russians and needed his toe amputating to stop an infection. I was performing the surgery in sub-zero temperatures, and had to finish it by torchlight after the electricity cut out. "I also met Phoenix, a pup who had both of his back legs ripped off by a shock wave from an explosion. He was found hobbling through the rubble but has since been nursed back to heath - and will be coming to the UK." Scott also travelled to Kherson - a city in the southeast of Ukraine recently liberated by Zelenskyy's forces. There he helped deliver pet food and supplies to a woman who was looking after 200 dogs in an abandoned shelter. But when he arrived, many of the dogs were breeding uncontrollably and needed neutering to stop them reproducing. So, with the help of ex-soldiers, he turned their van in to an operating theatre and performed surgical castration on ten dogs. Scott said: "This lady was caring for 200 dogs all by herself. We brought her pet food and supplies to keep them alive, but some needed neutering and vaccinating. "Ex-British soldiers working for the charity, led by Tom S-N, helped me turn our van into an operating theatre and anesthetise the dogs before surgery. They adapted to the situation incredibly well, and, with their assistance, I performed successful castration surgery on ten dogs." Scott says he also travelled to the front line to provide survival kits for those caring for animals and visited an orphanage. He returned from Ukraine last week. Scott said: "The people I met out there were incredible and the love and care they had for animals was inspiring. Breaking The Chains are doing an outstanding job." Scott is now raising money for a specialist veterinary ambulance vehicle for Breaking The Chains.  To donate visit https://gofund.me/eac72c6e.  