NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT If chicken is your order of choice at McDonald’s, you’re in luck. An old favourite is returning to the menu next week – much to the delight of fans everywhere. If you missed it the first time around, the Chicken Big Mac will be available in restaurants from Wednesday March 29 at 11am. The twist on the classic includes a triple-layered bun with the two 100% chicken breast patties in a crispy coating, a slice of cheese, lettuce, pickles, and the famous Big Mac sauce.  It first debuted in February 2022 (here’s what the Metro Lifestyle team made of it) – but sold out in days. So anyone wanting to get in on the treat this time should act fast.  But if a double cheeseburger is more your thing, a brand new item might tickle your taste buds. The fast food chain is launching a new steakhouse burger as part of the menu shake-up. McDonald’s is bringing ‘infamous’ US menu item to UK for first time ever McDonald's is bringing back 'sensational' burger so good fans petitioned for its return McDonald's Monopoly is back and you could win £100,000... or parking vouchers McDonald’s 3 for £3 meal deal is back — here’s what’s included This new addition features two 100% beef patties, a slice of cheddar cheese, crispy onions, red onions, and lettuce topped with a creamy peppercorn sauce, all in a freshly-toasted bun. The Steakhouse Stack will set you back £5.39 by itself or £6.99 as a meal. Mozzarella dippers are also making a comeback to the menu, set to be served with a salsa dip.  Likewise, the seasonal Creme Egg McFlurry and the Cadbury Caramel Egg McFlurry will also be back in action very soon. Do you have a story to share? Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk. 

	MORE : Heinz and Absolut Vodka launch new pasta sauce for penne alla vodka fans

 

	MORE : German brewery develops world’s first powdered beer – just add water

 Sign up to our guide to what’s on in London, trusted reviews, brilliant offers and competitions. London’s best bits in your inbox By ticking this box, you confirm you are over the age of 18*. Privacy Policy »  Get us in your feed