sportsMavericks By  SportsDay Staff By  SportsDay Staff 12:17 AM on Aug 13, 2023 CDT Dirk Nowitzki has officially joined the exclusive club reserved for players, coaches and figures at the highest level of basketball. The Mavericks icon delivered an emotional speech Saturday night during his enshrinement into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, thanking teammates and fans for their help throughout his historic playing career.  Missed out on Nowitzki’s speech? Check it out on video here and read excerpts below. Be the smartest Mavericks fan. Get the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy “For the last few months, two words have been running through my head: ‘Thank you.’ Thank you to Jerry Colangelo and the Hall of Fame for allowing me to live with this feeling of gratitude for months now. Being in the Hall of Fame means everything to me. I really appreciate it. Thanks to the NBA and Adam Silver — the greatest sports league in the world. My career has been a long journey, all this became possible because I learned some qualities and some values that were taught to me by some very special people that were excellent teachers, and I would like to share my journey towards these qualities today.” “Starting with this quality, and that’s creativity. The one guy that comes to mind is my guy, Don Nelson. Nellie. Unfortunately he’s not here tonight, but he always saw the game different and when I came in the league, there were not a lot of coaches that wanted a 7-footer to shoot 3s so my skill set kind of fit perfect into his system. I can’t thank him enough. He was also very creative off the floor and the stuff that he came up with, his speeches — it’s almost like [Gregg Popovich], they’re not kid-friendly so I’m not gonna say. It always came down to me having zero talent on defense and he always let me know that. He was just an incredible basketball mind. One play that always comes to mind, he always came in the morning to shootaround and he was super proud to share, ‘What’s the first play going to be?’ One time, he told me, ‘Okay, Steve [Nash] dribble the ball over, Dirk you pop and [Shawn] Bradley dunk it. Dirk, you just throw the ball off the glass and Bradley would catch it and lay it in.’ Sure enough, that ball went out of bounds and we started the game going the other way. Anyways, thanks Nellie. You’re the man.” “Creativity is worth nothing without leadership and the guy that comes to my mind is my friend, Steve. I think we came a long way from those two brutal haircuts we saw there. The frosted tips you had. But, who would have thought when we first started playing together that we would both be on this stage together? It means the world to me and you were a great role model to me. Best teammate I ever had. You were always positive, you always encouraged me. We worked our butts off at night, went back to the gym and you became a friend for life. Thank you, my friend.” “Next up for me, was, I had to learn my competitiveness and who better but my guy J-Kidd? I’ll always remember when you came to us, you were already a little older, but you were a warrior. I remember you picking up guys at age 37, 38 picking up guys full court. 94 feet, hustling for us. Making plays on both ends and you were just a wonderful, wonderful all-around player and we won the championship together. We have a bond for life. Thank you so much. “I would have really loved to play together with those two guys in their primes, but unfortunately I had to deal with what they gave me.” “Next up: We had creativity, leadership and competitiveness. There’s one quality that really holds a team together, and that’s respect. That embodies the entire class for me, of ‘23. I’m so excited to be a part of this class. Pau [Gasol], Tony [Parker], [Dwyane] Wade. I didn’t always like you guys. We competed at the highest level, but there was always an appreciation of you guys’ greatness. So, thank you guys. There’s one guy in this class who I have the utmost respect for and that’s Coach Pop. I will never forget you. You wrote me a handwritten note when we won the championship. What you and your organization did at my last game, I’ll forever be grateful. Thank you, my friend. “To the whole class: It’s an honor to go in with you, I’m truly humbled.” “Respect is a great thing if you establish it over a long period of time and you get the quality that’s more important to me than any other, and that is loyalty. The guy that embodies that for me is my good friend, Mark Cuban. You have a huge heart and you taught me a lot of lessons in loyalty. I will always remember when you bought the team and you came to your first practice, you said, ‘Let’s play some one-on-one. I could play a little bit.’ Of course, I drove left like I always do and I dunked it right on your head. We had a great friendship and relationship ever since. Thanks for everything you’ve done for me and for my family. I appreciate it.” “Career always comes with change and that’s always sometimes difficult. To deal with this, it requires the following qualities. Donnie, you found me in Wurtzberg and you always believed in me when nobody else did. That quality to me is the ability of taking risks. Thanks, Donnie. Second, you have to master this perfectly. Coach Carlisle, thank you. You taught me how detail-oriented you have to be to win. Really almost obsessive with the attention to detail. I gotta say, I had to retire. I could not have done another shootaround of yours, I gotta say. You made us champions and we’ll forever be grateful. Thank you. “The lesson there was, ‘Nothing really works without great preparation.’” “Coach Avery, you pushed me to become more than a jump shooter. You developed me into more of a complete player and the lesson here is, you made a difference with your intensity and I’ll always be grateful. Thank you so much.” “The next guy I learned professionalism from is my guy Michael Finley. You were a true pro, on and off the floor. You let me and Steve grow alongside you and we will always be grateful. I’m still sad you went to the Spurs in ‘06, but we learned so much from you and you became my big brother. You’re always there for me when I need you, so thank you.” “No one can whistle a symphony, it takes a whole orchestra to play it. That orchestra, I was very lucky to have one in Dallas and that quality was team spirit. It starts with the whole Mavs staff, with the medical staff — I mean, everybody does so much work behind the scenes and really helps us to perform every night. All my ex-teammates, I must have had 200 of them along my 21 years. Some of them are here tonight, some of the guys from the 2011 championship are here. Of course, I couldn’t have done it without you. You guys carried me every night. On defense, especially. We have a bond for life, so I really appreciate you guys coming. “Of course, all the Mavs fans. I hear you. Everyone hears you. You guys inspired and motivated me to always work hard. I will always be proud to represent you guys and of course, the Dallas Mavericks. Thank you.” “All these qualities, I couldn’t have ever learned without the next one, [which] is innovation. And the one crazy that comes to mind is, my coach, Holger. You always thought outside the box. I had to walk through the gym in handstands. I had to play the saxophone, I had to play the saxophone while doing the handstand. I mean, what else can I say? You taught me everything from the jump shot to how to play. Early on, motor skills were always more important than strength training and I think that helped me in my longevity. You became my mentor for my entire career and I will always be grateful for what you did for me. Thanks, Holger.” “Trying new things always leaves you vulnerable and that’s why you need protection. That’s the next quality and I have received that from my sister, Silke, and her family, [Roland], Lilly, Lila. You guys always looked out for me and you were always there for me when I needed you. Silke, I’m sorry I forgot to mention you at the jersey retirement. It’s a good thing you were only mad at me for a brief moment. That brief moment is still going.” “Next up is something I learned from two people and they’re sitting here tonight. The extremely important message and quality is humbleness and I learned that from my parents, [Helga and Jörg-Werner]. You’ve obviously sacrificed so much and put your lives on hold so I can chase our athletic dreams.” “All these qualities are important, but the one [that] really comes into play is passion. I thought I had played it already in my career, until I met you, Jess. Your passion for our family is incredible. You’re so driven. When you want something in life, you will work so hard to get it. Thanks so much for everything you do for our family, for our kids. We’re really lucky to have you in our lives. Love you. “As you see, so many qualities and values are extremely helpful but there’s one more that adds a little spice and that’s curiosity. I’ve got the best three teachers here tonight, those are our kids. Malaika, Max and Morris, please keep this forever. Stay curious and hungry. Find your passion and work hard. I shared with you some of the stories tonight that I learned from my role models and I wish the same for you. Find your role models who inspire you along the way. It’s always important in life to always have the drive to improve. To never be satisfied. Always see yourself as someone who wants to learn and not see yourself as someone who knows everything already. I’ve had so many great lessons taught to me by incredible teachers, and you will find them, too. Remember, when you’re green, you grow. When you’re ripe, you rot. “Thank you so much.” Find more Mavericks coverage from The Dallas Morning News here. SportsDay Staff