Traveling for health and wellness has grown in popularity in recent years, but it's not just a trend. It's caught on because health-focused vacations can benefit your mind and body. Whether you want to relax at a spa, practice yoga or improve your wellness routine, there’s a destination for you. To narrow down all of the options, USA TODAY 10Best editors and a panel of experts made nominations in four categories, then readers voted for their favorites over four weeks. Click on each category below to see the full winners list for the 2023 USA TODAY 10Best Readers' Choice Awards for Best Hot Springs, Best Spa Resort, Best Wellness Retreat Center and Best Yoga Retreat Center in the USA. Visitors to Berkeley Springs State Park may find themselves singing John Denver's lyrics, "Almost heaven, West Virginia," when they dip into the warm spring water that's perpetually 74.3 degrees Fahrenheit. Native American tribes introduced the health nexus to the first settlers who arrived in 1730. Learn more: Best travel insurance Experience the park’s Old Roman and Main bathhouses for various services including massages, saunas, baths, whirlpools and showers. Full list of winners: Best Hot Springs » With 25 mineral pools fed by the Mother Spring, the world’s deepest geothermal hot spring, this Colorado resort is like a wellness water park. Each pool has its own look and personality, offering a variety of temperatures and experiences. Although you’ll be tempted to soak all day, you’ll also want to try aqua yoga, aqua sound bathing and a warrior plunge, and eventually get out of the water to enjoy their wonderful spa treatments and services. Full list of winners: Best Spa Resort » Guests at Skyterra are encouraged to set aside the worries of day-to-day life and focus on health and well-being. Classes are small, giving each participant personalized attention, and all fitness levels are welcome. The resort hosts fewer than 35 guests at a time to promote a sense of intimacy, exclusivity and a more individualized experience. Full list of winners: Best Wellness Retreat Center » For more than 50 years, the Retreat Center at the Himalayan Institute in the rolling hills of the Poconos has been a magnet for those seeking balance. Yoga retreats can address specific issues such as grief or they can combine yoga, ayurveda and hiking to nourish mind and body on the 400-acre campus. You'll experience restorative asana, pranayama and yoga nidra, which is a powerful relaxation practice with guided meditation. Lodge in simple and comfortable accommodations conducive to a peaceful stay and enjoy hearty vegetarian or vegan meals daily. Full list of winners: Best Yoga Retreat Center » Congratulations to all these winning nominees! Remember to visit 10Best.com daily to vote in our Readers' Choice contests.