Left guard Elgton Jenkins (74) has been the Green Bay Packers' best offensive lineman since 2019. The Green Bay Packers doubled down on David Bakhtiari, and busted. Rasheed Walker has played the way you’d expect a seventh round draft pick to play — well below average. As the Packers continue to look for answers at left tackle, the solution might be just a few feet away. Pro Bowl left guard Elgton Jenkins excelled at the position in 2021 before suffering a torn ACL after eight games. Jenkins has been up-and-down since his return, but for now, he might be the best option for keeping Jordan Love’s blindside clean. “Yeah, I wouldn’t mind that,” Jenkins said of playing left tackle. “I did it before and liked it. “But you know me, I’ll just do whatever’s best for the team. I just want to win games, and if that means me being at guard, me being at tackle, me being wherever, I just want to win games and keep moving forward as an offense. So wherever it is to help us win games, I’m good with that.” The Packers were awfully good with Jenkins at left tackle for half of 2021. A 2019 second round draft pick, Jenkins is already one of the most versatile players in team history. He reached the Pro Bowl in 2020 after becoming the first Green Bay offensive lineman to start a game at guard, center and tackle in the same season since the 1970 merger. Then with Bakhtiari sidelined in 2021, Jenkins moved from guard to tackle and excelled. In eight starts before his own injury, Jenkins allowed just 1 ½ “bad” runs and 13 pressures (a combination of sacks, knockdowns and hurries). “I was pretty good,” Jenkins said of his play in 2021. “Yep. I graded out pretty good.” Jenkins was back on the field by Week 2 of 2022, but struggled while making five starts at right tackle. In those games, Jenkins gave up two sacks, one quarterback hit and 12 total pressures, according to Pro Football Focus. Jenkins went back to left guard in Week 7 and looked like his old self. In 10 games back at guard, Jenkins allowed one sack, no quarterback hits and five total pressures. Then on Dec. 23, the Packers signed Jenkins to a four-year, $68 million contract extension that included a $24 million signing bonus and could max out at $74 million with incentives. At $17 million annually, Jenkins’ contract made him the second-highest paid guard in the NFL behind Indianapolis’ Quenton Nelson ($20 million). It also tied Jenkins as the eighth-highest paid left tackle in the league. “It’s a great day for us, a great day for Elgton. Obviously, he’s earned it,” Packers coach Matt LaFleur said after Jenkins signed his extension. “He does it the right way. It’s always fun as a coach to see guys that get rewarded for not only their performance, but what they do in that locker room and the leadership he brings. “I can’t say enough great things about him. He’s been just awesome since the day he set foot in this building. Just brings so much to our team and just really, really, really, really excited.” The Packers hoped they could squeeze one more season out of Bakhtiari, but he played in just one game before going on the injured reserve list Sept. 28. The 6-foot-6, 324-pound Walker has started the last five games and struggled. In 310 offensive snaps, Walker has been penalized five times and allowed two sacks. Walker’s last two games have been arguably his poorest. In a Week 5 loss to Las Vegas, Walker allowed four hurries and had Green Bay’s lowest run blocking grade, according to PFF
PFF
. In last week’s loss at Denver, Walker gave up three hurries and was penalized twice. Jenkins has struggled at times during a 2023 in which the entire offensive line — aside from right tackle Zach Tom — has been an issue. If the Packers want to give Love the best chance of succeeding, though, moving their best offensive linemen since 2019 to left tackle could make the most sense. “If they tell me I’m moving, that’s great,” Jenkins said. “I’d be good with that. “But like I said, I just want to win games. Right now, it’s all about getting that 1-0 start so we can build off that. Right now, all that’s on my mind is to go out there and win. We’ve got to find a way to win some games.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.