During a June 2021 episode of Chopped on Food Network, viewers got to see talented chef Taylor Hurt compete for the $10,000 prize. At the end of the competition, producers shared that the pre-taped episode was dedicated to Taylor after her unexpected death a few months earlier. Scroll below for more details on what happened to her and the legacy she left behind.  Taylor was born on August 6, 1990, in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. She pursued her culinary passion and worked at The Birdhouse Cafe in the small town. The cook later moved to Brooklyn, New York, to further her career and began working at LaRina Pastificio & Vino restaurant. One of her recipes was published in the cookbook called Be Nourished.  In November 2019, Taylor reflected on her life in a heartfelt Instagram post about gratitude.  “This year has brought so many blessings and I continue to have so much to be thankful for,” the TV personality wrote. “My loving, caring family is always at the top of my list.” The Chopped alum also gave a shout-out to her “incredible girlfriend” and “wonderful friends” in the caption. At the time, Taylor was dating Paige Pirtle and also owned a dog. Soon after her touching Instagram post, she had been selected to compete on Chopped, a lifelong dream of hers finally fulfilled.  Her last Instagram post came 10 days before her death, promoting Be Nourished and sharing an anecdote about the book’s author, Katie Dixon.  “It means so much to me to be acknowledged in your cookbook!” Taylor captioned a photo with Katie. “You are the best mentor and friend, thank you for always supporting and believing in me. I love you big!” Taylor died on November 29, 2020, at the age of 30. No official cause of death was immediately revealed. In December 2020, the Joshua Generation Community Church, in which she once led a children’s ministry, announced Taylor’s death in a Facebook post. “Taylor was funny, punny and cracked cheesy jokes!” the post read. “She was truly a light to all that she encountered. She will be forever remembered and missed. Our lives were touched and forever changed because we knew her!”  The culinary expert’s funeral was held in Louisville, Mississippi. Instead of flowers, her family asked donations to be made to Southern Pine Animal Shelter, “a charity dear to Taylor’s heart,” per her obituary. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.