Neura Robotics, a German startup that since 2019 has been building cognitive robots -- machines that possess memory, the ability to operate across a complex and changing mix of variables, and can collaborate with people ("cobots" as Neura calls them) -- has raised $55 million. It plans to use the funding to fuel more R&D and to expand its business in Asia and the U.S., and it will be using some of it to beef up manufacturing: The company says its order book is now at $450 million over the next five years. "The actual demand of our customers is much higher, but currently still limited by our production capacities," David Reger, Neura's CEO and founder, told TechCrunch. (Reger is pictured above with some of Neura's robots.) The funding is coming from Lingotto (an investment management company that is part of PE firm Exor N.V.), plus Vsquared Ventures, Primepulse and HV Capital. The valuation is not being disclosed, but the deal represents a shift for the startup. Neura previously raised around $80 million, with all of that coming from a strategic backer, Han's Group, the China-based conglomerate known best for property development, but also with holdings in hotel operation and property management, equipment manufacturing and healthcare. Before this latest investment, Reger said the company decided to buy out the previous backer to clear the cap table and make way for pure financial investors. "In today's deglobalized world, we have decided that Neura as an independent company has much more potential worldwide and that a partnership is more beneficial for both companies," he told TechCrunch in an email. Want the top robotics news in your inbox each week? Sign up for Actuator here. While there is definitely a lot of vaporware, and "coming soon"-ware in the world of advanced autonomous systems, robotics startups have actually delivered more than others, and Neura is among them. The company currently has three models covering both robotic arms and more "human" forms -- the MAV mobile robot, the LARA "high-end cobot," and MAiRA, which it describes as the "world's first cognitive robot." The company's model appears to be primarily B2B, and potentially B2B2C, for now. For example, Reger said that one of its customers, Japan's Kawasaki, "[is] already selling their own cobot series based on our platform." Image Credits: Neura Robotics (opens in a new window) under a license. Prices for the industrial models range between €5,000 and €40,000, while an upcoming MiPA service robot, aimed at offices, care facilities, and homes, "will be priced well below ten thousand euros." Before founding Neura, Reger had already spent seven years in the space of robotics, both in management roles and in developing robots for industrial applications. If you look at his LinkedIn profile, it appears that he's been less on the technical and more on the conceptual side of that R&D, but that may have given him an advantage in building a robotics business himself, since he had a strong idea of what customers were looking for. In almost all industrial projects, he said, "we had to adapt the existing environment to the robot -- usually in a very complex and expensive way -- in order to meet the high safety requirements." He went on: The industry had always done this for decades without anyone questioning it much. But I was sure that in the long run, it would make more sense to modify the robots themselves so that they could be used safely in any environment alongside humans. It was clear to me, even in 2019, that it was possible to equip robots with senses and give them the ability to process perceptions quickly and safely. But as is often the case in a mature industry, it's difficult to leave the comfort zone and enter uncharted territory. Otherwise, we would have had an alternative to the internal combustion engine much longer ago. So, I ended up founding my own company to realize my idea of cognitive robotics. Reger's "casual" description of what cognitive robots means says something about the functionality that the company aims to create with its machines. "I would say that smartphones are coming with arms and legs," he says of Neura's devices. "In other words, assistants that relieve us not just virtually, but in very real terms. Physically." The platform that Neura has built can be trained and operated in any language and dialect, he said, and they work online and offline. Cobots have additional features on them so that they can work with and alongside humans, with sensors and safety features that allow them to stop or adjust their movements if a person comes into contact with them, Reger said. The company's big bet is that making the entire package -- software plus hardware -- is the way forward in this space. That includes not just fashioning all the sensors and other components, but also building the AI that powers it. This also means that Neura can collaborate better with its customers, with a platform that partners can use to jointly develop specialized apps in areas like welding, warehousing, gluing, sanding, and assembly. “If you are serious about software, you need to embrace hardware," said Dr. Herbert Mangesius, general partner at Vsquared Ventures, in a statement. "This is particularly true for robotic automation and has been a bottleneck in bringing cutting-edge machine learning and cognitive capabilities into the industrial and services world for many years. Neura Robotics is the first company we met that combines this technological vision and leadership with an open partnership model and such driving progress globally at a never-seen pace within robotics.” In the future, Neura wants to expand more directly into the consumer market, Reger said. "We are focusing on the industrial applications such as welding, warehousing, gluing, sanding, and assembly but all our know-how and technology goes into our MiPA service robot platform, which can help in offices, in care and even in the home," he said. The aim is to keep up the pace it's set so far, and deliver that cognitive "one-device robotic platform" in two years. "Humanoid robots by Neura that collaborate with humans across various societal domains and within human-designed environments could be real in just a couple of years — and provide a solution to the general shortage of skilled workers," Reger said. That said, the company is not vertically integrated to the extent that it will not work with third parties: Its AI can be used on any robot via an API it provides, and the hardware it makes has both the app ecosystem and the willingness of Neura to work with customers to create whatever is needed by them. "We provide a technology platform to which partners from around the world, not just robotics, can connect. Our components and robots combine with the countless ideas and know-how from a wide range of industries," he continued. "This makes many special applications possible in a very short time that we couldn't serve alone. The best way to compare this is with a smartphone and its operating system, which has only really come to life and become indispensable thanks to millions of apps from all sectors." He says the company has even branded this ambition: "the Neuraverse." In a market that does have a lot of proprietary approaches, it's indeed an ambitious concept, but investors seem to believe Neura can deliver. “Neura operates at the confluence of AI and hardware development. Germany and Europe have a particular advantage here,” said Nikhil Srinivasan, managing partner at Lingotto, in a statement. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.