News | Tech Amazon has another robot helper up its sleeve as part of its grand plan to bring domestic droids to homes. The online shopping giant is backing Labrador Systems, the maker of a robot cart that can carry your dirty dishes and laundry around for you. The droid, known as the Labrador Retriever, uses advanced 3D vision to map and navigate your home, in the vein of a robot vacuum. In essence, it comes across as a high-tech food trolley that can self-drive and automatically lift and lower items to you. You can summon it using your voice through an Alexa-enabled device, like a smart speaker or display, and even pre-set it to bring or collect items at specific times. All told, the Retriever can carry food and laundry baskets weighing up to 25 pounds. At the recent CES tech event, Labrador Systems showed the bot retrieving drinks from a fridge based on voice commands made through an Amazon Echo Show 10 smart display, which was placed atop the cart. Just don’t expect it to get your dinner out of the oven or pop to the garden to collect your clothes from the line. After all, it’s a self-driving cart, not a humanoid robot with arms and legs. It’s no coincidence that the robot plays nice with Amazon’s products. The e-commerce titan previously co-led a $3.1 million funding round in the startup alongside iRobot, the maker of the Roomba robot vacuum that Amazon is in the process of acquiring. It’s easy to see how the cart could slot into Amazon’s consumer robotics roadplan, which already includes its Astro home robot that works as a roaming security guard. Alexa is likely to be the mainframe for Amazon’s robotic helpers, allowing you to control your troop of cleaning, helper and surveillance bots with your voice. While it sounds like a recipe for idleness, the true purpose of the Labrador Retriever is to assist those living with limited mobility or chronic pain. Still, it will apparently be made available to individuals after it rolls out to care providers later this month. But there’s no word on pricing just yet. Like a robot vacuum, the cart uses a mix of sensors and algorithms to guide itself around household obstacles like furniture. This includes a dual-layer of downward-facing sensors on all four sides of the bot, additional forward-facing sensors to help it chart its path, and a network of bumpers around the base and upper cabinet for extra detection. The robot comes in two models, with the high-end Retriever offering a self-adjusting height feature and the ability to automatically retrieve special trays that are included with it. A standard Caddie version, on the other hand, offers full self-driving. Both models can purportedly run for an entire day on a single charge, with four hours required for a full recharge. The robot lawyer that speaks up to advocate  on your behalf Woman says robotic surgery saved her life after cancer diagnosis Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 3 Football Chelsea to accelerate fire sale with 14 players facing exits before transfer window closes 4 Football Transfer news LIVE! Merino to Arsenal update, Joan Garcia; Felix to Chelsea done; Man Utd make Ugarte progress 5 Football Man City injury update: Rodri, Savinho, Oscar Bobb latest news and return dates