Tamra Patterson is headed back to the Food Network. She will compete on "Alex vs America" in the “Southern Comfort” episode on May 7. This marks the fifth time the chef and owner of Chef Tam’s Underground Cafe in Memphis has appeared on Food Network. She won "Chopped" in April 2022 and competed on three different episodes of "Guy's Grocery Games," even winning once. She has also competed on OWN's "Great American Cookout." Patterson said she is honored to be asked to be in the competition. “Being on Alex vs America shows me my level of talent because not everyone can say they have competed against an Iron Chef.” New Memphis restaurants: Mo'Bay Beignet Co. brings authentic beignets, signature coffees to Memphis Napa Café turns 25: How a chemistry major created one of Memphis' top fine dining spots In its third season, "Alex vs America" invites chefs to attempt to take down Iron Chef Alex Guarnaschelli, the most feared and accomplished competition cook in America. Guarnaschelli faces three chefs in two rounds of cooking, and anyone — even Guarnaschelli — can be sent home after a blind tasting by the judges. In the "Southern Comfort" episode, Guarnaschelli battles three Southern comfort food experts — in addition to Patterson, the other two chefs hail from Mississippi and North Carolina. These chefs have to strategize what ingredients to use in round one in hopes of knocking Guarnaschelli out of the competition. In round two, the comfort food celebration continues as the remaining chefs use their cooking skills to impress judges Kelsey Barnard Clarke and Adrienne Cheatham. Patterson is the chef and owner of Chef Tam's Underground Cafe in Downtown Memphis. Since opening in March 2017, Chef Tam has made a name for herself for her creative Southern soul food dishes. In addition to her flagship restaurant, she has a line of cookware, a collection of juices and a second Chef Tam's restaurant in Arlington, Texas. The show will air at 7 p.m. CST May 7 on Food Network. Jennifer Chandler is the Food & Dining reporter at The Commercial Appeal. She can be reached at jennifer.chandler@commercialappeal.com and you can follow her on Twitter and Instagram at @cookwjennifer.  If you want to keep up with the tastiest news in the Bluff City — like the story above, sign up for our Eat Drink Memphis weekly newsletter for a hearty serving of stories on everything from restaurants to recipes. You can sign up here. This article originally appeared on Memphis Commercial Appeal: Food Network's 'Alex vs America' to feature Memphis' Chef Tam New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.