
  ADAM Wilson is hoping that his goal-scoring exploits will earn him another starting chance at MK Dons tomorrow.
 
  The winger came off the bench to smash a thumping equaliser against Wrexham at the weekend.
 
  He had been dropped for the game in favour of Emmanuel Osadebe, the match-winning substitute from the previous Saturday at Wimbledon.
 
  But with Jamie Walker and Richie Smallwood both suspended, Wilson will be eyeing a return to Kevin McDonald’s first 11.
 
  “There are places up for grabs,” said Wilson. “It’s a big week coming up and everyone’s ready to go again.
 
  “We’re unbeaten now in four games and we just have to keep it going and get results.
 
  “You have to work hard in training every day to stay in the squad.
 
  “You always want to play games but I just try hard to focus on what I can do when I get on.”
 
READ MORE: McDonald urging Bantams to speed up 
 
  It was Wilson’s first goal in senior football in England and the former Newcastle winger could not have chosen a better moment to get off the mark.
 
  “It’s a great feeling to get my first goal. We were just unlucky not to come away with the three points.
 
  “If you said I was going to do that before the game started, I wouldn’t have believed it.
 
  “I thrive off all the fans being there. I loved all the noise and stuff.
 
  “I took a touch, tried to shoot, it came back off both legs of the defender and landed in front of me. I just hit the ball hard and it hit the bar and went in – the keeper definitely wasn’t stopping it!
 
  “But there was a bit of mixed emotion afterwards because we feel we should be getting three points. We’re not fully happy until we win games.”
 
  City have taken seven points from a possible nine against teams in the play-off places since McDonald took over after Mark Hughes was sacked.
 
  “I’m enjoying it,” added Wilson, who was one of Hughes’ last signings for City.
 
  “It’s good to play under Kev because he gives me a lot of belief personally to go out there and express myself.
 
  “There are just those fine details in the final third, whether to pass or cross or have a shot. It’s just decision-making and the quality on the end of it.”
 
  City will spend plenty of time on the road this week with tomorrow night’s clash at MK Dons followed by another Saturday date in south London against Sutton.
 
  But having won at Wimbledon last time on their travels, Wilson is confident of a healthy return from their motorway miles to extend the current run of good form.
 
  “If we keep doing what we have been and working hard, then we’ll get results,” he said.
 
  “We’ve got good players in the squad. It’s always a battle to keep your place.
 
  “You just want to go out there and do your best.”
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.