Sign in to Sign in to Sign in to Sign in to Skills  Sign in to A Cloud Guru  Sign in to Flow  Loading form... If this message remains, it may be due to cookies being disabled or to an ad blocker. A fast-paced, practical introduction to software development—explaining core concepts, programming languages and the entire software development lifecycle.  Get this
course plus top-rated picks in tech skills and other popular topics. Expanded library Hands-on library Give up to 50 users access to our full library including this course free for 30 days Know exactly where everyone on your team stands with the skills you care about most Get clear on the most important ideas in software development and the entire “software development lifecycle” or SDLC. You’ll learn about different kinds of development, including mobile, web-based and desktop. You’ll explore common applications and tools, and see why there are so many different programming languages. And, you'll see how programming is done in the “real world”, exploring the benefits of programming libraries, testing frameworks, source control, SDKs and APIs.
 Get clear on the most important ideas in software development and the entire “software development lifecycle” or SDLC. You’ll learn about different kinds of development, including mobile, web-based and desktop. You’ll explore common applications and tools, and see why there are so many different programming languages. And, you'll see how programming is done in the “real world”, exploring the benefits of programming libraries, testing frameworks, source control, SDKs and APIs. Simon is Creative Director and Principal Author at Pluralsight. With over three decades of software development experience, he's programmed in every discipline: from finance to transportation, nuclear reactors to game development. Prior to joining Pluralsight, Simon was the principal developer author at lynda.com. His first video course released back in 2002: since then, his popular courses have been viewed by hundreds of thousands of developers. His current focus is both on the new — the latest... more iOS and Mac development technologies — and on the old: fundamental computer science topics. He obsesses on making complicated subjects accessible, memorable, and easier to learn. Get this
course plus top-rated picks in tech skills and other popular topics. Expanded library Hands-on library Give up to 50 users access to our full library including this course free for 30 days Know exactly where everyone on your team stands with the skills you care about most Sign up to get immediate access to this course plus thousands more you can watch anytime, anywhere. Sign up with your email to join our mailing list. Loading form... If this message remains, it may be due to cookies being disabled or to an ad blocker.