A new study highlights that generative AI could consume energy to power a small county by 2027 for a year, translating to approximately 85-134 terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity. There's also a rising concern about the large amount of water used to cool the data centers used to run AI-powered chatbots like ChatGPT and Bing Chat whenever they are used to answer queries. However, for this to happen, several factors must be constant—for instance, the interest in AI and the availability of AI chips. It's no secret that most organizations and companies have plunged into generative AI since its emergence last year. Undoubtedly, remarkable feats and untapped opportunities have been unlocked using the technology. For instance, it's now easier for students to solve complex math problems, medical advancements, and more. But all these advances come at a cost, and an expensive one. We already know that OpenAI parts with up to 700,000 dollars daily to run its AI-powered chatbot, ChatGPT. Running the chatbot is becoming an expensive venture because the company is reportedly on the verge of bankruptcy amid user complaints that it is getting dumber.  And now, according to a new study spotted by BBC, it's feared that the resource-hungry technology could plausibly consume "as much energy as a country the size of the Netherlands by 2027." This is because AI uses more energy compared to other conventional apps. However, this depends on the exponential growth of the technology. But as it stands. Chances of this happening are rather slim to none, according to a recent report that showed ChatGPT's user base declined for three months consecutively. The same can be said about Microsoft's Bing Chat since its market share has stagnated for the greater part of this year despite its multi-billion dollar investment in the technology. Big Deal Days • Xbox accessories under $100 • Xbox accessories under $75 • The best gaming desktop deals • The best gaming laptop deals • Deals on PC parts under $100 • Deals on PC parts under $75 • Deals on PC parts under $50 • Deals on PC parts under $25 While conducting this study, Alex De Vries, a PhD student at the VU Amsterdam School of Business and Economics, assumed a couple of factors would remain constant through 2027. For instance, Alex assumed that the interest in AI technology among consumers would continue to grow, coupled with the availability of AI chips. But if recent developments are anything to go by, AI chips might not be readily available for much longer. NVIDIA, a mass developer of the GPUs used in AI tech, is seemingly unable to meet the rising demand for these chips, which has stunted the growth and development of AI advances. Microsoft has reportedly clocked this shortcoming and is preparing to debut its first dedicated AI chip next month during its annual developer conference, Ignite 2024. This is to mitigate costs and potentially make the venture more profitable for the company. The researcher's study further disclosed that if these factors remain constant, AI technology will consume approximately 85-134 terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity annually by 2027. This is enough to power a small country with a sparse population like the Netherlands. There's already a rising concern over the amount of water used to cool data centers to run chatbots like OpenAI's ChatGPT and Microsoft's Bing Chat. Approximately 1 bottle of water is used for cooling every time these chatbots are used to answer queries. While the research paper didn't quantify the amount of energy or water required to keep this entire operation alive, primarily because tech firms don't reveal this kind of information, it is evident that a lot of resources are factored in. However, strategically placed data centers like Microsoft's Iowa-based data centers have proven effective and efficient thanks to the location and temperate climate. These two factors significantly reduced the water used to cool down the servers. Do you think tech firms can keep the generative AI ball rolling for much longer amid the energy concerns? Please share your thoughts with us in the comments. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.