We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Medical News Today only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Applying cannabidiol (CBD) oil to a painful area or taking it orally may help relieve neuropathy pain. However, more research is necessary to establish the safety and efficacy of CBD products. Neuropathy causes chronic pain due to damaged nerves. People may develop it from a physically traumatic event or several different conditions, such as infections, vasculitis, and hypothyroidism. If an individual develops neuropathy from treatable conditions, such as diabetes, chronic alcohol use disorder, or nutrient deficiencies, a doctor will aim to control the condition first. While doctors can prescribe pain medication to help relieve symptoms, some people may also try using CBD products.  Is CBD legal?The 2018 Farm Bill removed hemp from the legal definition of marijuana in the Controlled Substances Act. This made some hemp-derived CBD products with less than 0.3% THC federally legal. However, CBD products containing more than 0.3% THC still fall under the legal definition of marijuana, making them federally illegal but legal under some state laws. Be sure to check state laws, especially when traveling. Also, keep in mind that the FDA has not approved nonprescription CBD products, and some products may be inaccurately labeled. A person can apply CBD oil directly on the skin where they feel pain.  Some CBD oil products are for oral administration, for example, in the form of pills, tinctures, and gummies.  A person should follow the instructions on the label, but it is important to remember that there are no regulated guidelines for CBD oil use for neuropathy. Learn more about CBD dosage and use. Medical News Today chooses products that meet the following criteria: Please note that the writer of this article has not tried these products. All information presented is purely research-based and correct at the time of publication. Medical News Today follows a strict product selection and vetting process. Learn more. CBDfx soft gel capsules are full spectrum and for oral consumption. Learn about the best CBD gel capsules and where to buy them. These softgels are available in two different strengths: 750 mg and 1,500 mg. Each dose contains either 25 mg or 50 mg, respectively. CBDfx advises people to take 1–2 capsules daily. Additionally, individuals should always follow the manufacturer’s instructions on the bottle. The company also states that its capsules contain almost untraceable amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). This is the substance that many people associate with the “high” feeling from cannabis use.  Learn more about CBDfx. The company states that this full-spectrum oil contains several cannabinoids that naturally occur in the cannabis plant, along with up to 0.3% THC. Learn where to buy the best full-spectrum CBD oils. CBDistillery recommends people hold one dropper of the oil, or 1 mL, under the tongue for 10–20 seconds before swallowing. The company states that the product is not addictive and contains less than 0.3% of THC. Learn more about CBDistillery. This full-spectrum lotion contains menthol, which may provide a cooling sensation almost as soon as a person applies it to their skin. The menthol may help cool and soothe pain. Each jar contains 500 mg of CBD and 20 mg of THC. The company states that one jar provides roughly 60 servings, with each containing around 8 mg of CBD. The lotion is USDA certified organic, and Cornbread Hemp states it uses third parties to lab test its products for purity and safety. The company recommends people apply the lotion to their skin as and when they need it. Learn more about Cornbread Hemp. These capsules contain broad-spectrum CBD, meaning they contain only trace amounts of THC. Each capsule contains 50 mg of CBD. Social CBD recommends taking one capsule per day. Unlike many other products, these capsules feature a 12-hour extended-release mechanism. This may be especially beneficial for people who prefer to take supplements in the morning to feel the effects throughout the day. These capsules are dairy-, gluten-, and cruelty-free. Social CBD states that each of its products undergoes third-party testing. Learn more about Social CBD. These gummies may be great for people who want to take CBD on the go, as they are discreet and easily portable. Each gummy contains 30 mg of CBD per gummy. However, this product is only available in a citrus flavor. These gummies are vegan, U.S Hemp Authority certified, and non-GMO. Medterra recommends taking one gummy per serving. People can wait a couple of hours and repeat the dose to reach their desired effect. Read our in-depth review of Medterra. The following table compares the products in this article on form, serving size, price, and more. Choosing a CBD product can be challenging. That said, buying from licensed retailers is the safest way to choose a CBD product. These products are more likely to have undergone government regulation. Currently, no guidelines exist to help people choose CBD products for neuropathy. When a person looks for CBD products, they should check the ingredients for the amount of THC, which can cause side effects. Before choosing a CBD product, a person should consult their doctor. Doctors can help monitor people for side effects and guide their choice of therapy. Learn more about how to shop for CBD products. Some people may use CBD oil alongside other neuropathic pain treatment methods. However, it is important to tell a healthcare professional if someone is using CBD, as this compound can interact with other medications and alter their effectiveness. Learn more about the best CBD products for pain relief. In a small 2020 study, 29 participants with neuropathy either took CBD oil or a placebo.  Participants in the CBD oil group tolerated the product well and had a statistically significant reduction in pain in comparison with the placebo group. While these findings seem promising, researchers need to conduct further studies on a larger population to confirm these findings. There is also anecdotal evidence that CBD may help neuropathy. Some people with this condition state that several cannabis products, including inhaled herbal cannabis, sprays, and tablets, are effective. However, there is a lack of good quality evidence that any CBD product is effective for chronic neuropathic pain. Additionally, researchers state that there is a lack of strong evidence that any CBD product works for chronic neuropathic pain. Learn more about CBD and managing chronic pain. Visit our dedicated hub for more research-backed information and in-depth resources on CBD. Individuals may find it challenging to choose a safe CBD oil product because of the lack of consistent government regulation. Some studies show that manufacturers do not label certain products correctly, meaning these goods could include unexpected ingredients or quantities. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the safety, effectiveness, or quality of over-the-counter CBD products. The FDA is studying the proposed health claims of CBD products. The organization suggests that CBD products can potentially harm users, but it is unclear how these products and their differing administration methods can be harmful. Some adverse effects of CBD products include: Sometimes, doctors cannot determine why a person is experiencing neuropathy, but they may suggest various treatment options. People living with chronic neuropathic pain may benefit from consulting a pain specialist if simple pain medications do not work. Doctors may prescribe medicines such as: Some doctors recommend transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) as a noninvasive treatment for relieving neuropathy pain. TENS uses electric currents to activate nerves for pain relief.  Other people prefer to use herbal remedies. Some herbal remedies that researchers have studied in both humans and animals for treating neuropathy include: Learn about essential oils for neuropathic pain. Before using CBD oil products, a person should speak with a doctor, as some products can interfere or interact with other medications.Certain CDB products may also be unsafe and cause unwanted side effects. Doctors can help individuals choose safer products but cannot guarantee the efficacy of CBD products for neuropathy. By discussing the use of CBD with a doctor, a person can receive monitoring for any potential adverse side effects. If someone with neuropathy is searching for alternative treatments, a doctor may help them find more appropriate options. By discussing therapeutic goals and the perceived benefits of using CBD oil, doctors can help establish reasonable pain relief goals and set realistic expectations. CBD oil is generally safe to rub on an area of pain on the skin, including on the feet. However, individuals should look at a product’s ingredients list for any irritants or allergens and avoid using the product if they have uncertainties. CBD oil is generally safe to rub on an area of pain on the skin, including on the feet. However, individuals should look at a product’s ingredients list for any irritants or allergens and avoid using the product if they have uncertainties. Nerve tingling may be a symptom of neuropathic pain. Research from 2018 suggests that CBD may help with symptoms of this condition in the short term. While CBD has anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving effects, there is no clinical evidence that CBD oil can regenerate nerves. Nerve tingling may be a symptom of neuropathic pain. Research from 2018 suggests that CBD may help with symptoms of this condition in the short term. While CBD has anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving effects, there is no clinical evidence that CBD oil can regenerate nerves. The amount of time it takes for CBD oil to take effect will vary from person to person, as will the most effective dose. However, depending on the delivery method, people may start feeling the effects in as little as half an hour. Research from 2021 on mice suggests that oral CBD treatment may be safe and effective for neuropathic pain. However, more studies are necessary on humans. The amount of time it takes for CBD oil to take effect will vary from person to person, as will the most effective dose. However, depending on the delivery method, people may start feeling the effects in as little as half an hour. Research from 2021 on mice suggests that oral CBD treatment may be safe and effective for neuropathic pain. However, more studies are necessary on humans. While many people living with neuropathy have explored using CBD products, evidence for its effectiveness is lacking.  Certain CBD products, including CBD oils, are unregulated. Products coming from unlicensed sources may contain contaminants or different amounts of CBD and THC than the labels suggest. Individuals living with neuropathy who do not feel they are experiencing sufficient pain relief from traditional therapies can speak with a doctor. A person must tell a doctor if they are taking CBD products so that they can monitor for potential signs of toxicity, side effects, and efficacy. Share this article Cannabidiol or CBD oil has become popular for pain treatment. This article looks at how it works, how to use it, and the benefits and risks of CBD oil. Peripheral neuropathy involves damage to the peripheral nerves. This can cause various sensations, including pain. Here, learn more about the symptoms… CBD oil is popular as a natural remedy for a range of symptoms and conditions, though research into its use for diabetes is limited. Learn more here. Some people may find CBD gummies alleviate pain and accompanying symptoms. Here, we look at some of the best CBD gummies for pain, based on… Soul CBD sells CBD isolate gummies, creams, oils, and more. Read our brand review of Soul CBD here. OUR BRANDS