NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A British video blogger who interviewed a handcuffed fellow citizen after he had been taken prisoner in occupied Ukraine has been added to a list of Russian propagandists. Kremlin supporter Graham Phillips has been named on the database collated by the Molfar open source intelligence agency.  Phillips’ activities include filming Ukrainian marine Aiden Aslin while he was being used as a ‘propaganda zombie’ in the Donetsk People’s Republic after the month-long siege of Mariupol. Phillips, 44, runs pro-Russian social media accounts posting material from annexed or occupied areas of the country and has been sanctioned by the UK government over his activities. Molfar provided links to some of Phillips’ posts mocking Ukraine and Britain over Vladimir Putin’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. He has been previously been accused of breaching the Geneva Convention by interviewing Aslin, who describes in his book, Putin’s Prisoner, how he was subjected to brutal treatment by his pro-Russian captors and turned into a ‘propaganda zombie’.  Aslin, who was sentenced to death before being freed in a prisoner exchange, accuses Phillips of having committed a war crime by interviewing him while he was handcuffed and under duress.  Aslin’s local MP, Robert Jenrick, told parliament at the time the video was published on YouTube that the Putin supporter had committed a ‘flagrant breach’ of the Geneva Convention, which protects prisoners of war against ‘insults and public curiosity’.  In 2016, the Ukrainian Embassy to the UK alleged in an open letter that Phillips had taunted a ‘blinded, maimed and imprisoned’ civilian shortly before he was released by pro-Kremlin separatists in a prisoner exchange. The filmmaker this week denied having committed any war crimes and accused the British government of attempting to ‘destroy my work’. The Molfar list of more than 50 names, part of its ongoing work to monitor ‘enemies of Ukraine’, was collated from open source information, including social media content, and expert analysis.  The introduction reads: ‘Foreign propagandists of the Russian Federation repeat the theses of the Kremlin leadership, justify Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine, call for the lifting of Western sanctions against the Russian Federation, and convince the world that the annexation of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine is legitimate.’ Phillips, from Nottingham, also Aslin’s home city, is subject to financial sanctions and an asset freeze, which was imposed in July 2022. The government listing reads: ‘Graham Phillips is a video blogger who has produced and published media content that supports and promotes actions and policies which destabilize Ukraine and undermine or threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty, or independence of Ukraine.’ YouTube has also flagged his activities, removing his 45-minute video showing Aslin before taking down his channel altogether. Phillips’ path to pro-Russian activities includes first travelling to Ukraine as an away fan for an England football match, according to Buzzfeed News. He then filmed his own YouTube field reports from conflict zones after the Russian military aggression began in 2014 and had a spell working as a freelancer for state-owned Russian broadcaster RT in Ukraine. The vlogger is said to have moved to the country after quitting his job at the now defunct UK government’s Central Office of Information.  In an email to Metro.co.uk, he insisted that ‘I have never been accused of a war crime by any organization or authority’ and ‘nothing ever materialised of this ridiculous claim’. He said that Aslin had requested the interview and he had obliged with ‘decency, integrity, and professionalism’.  Phillips described being sanctioned as ‘a hugely dangerous precedent not only for freedom of the press in the UK, but for every British citizen’ because no criminal charges had been brought against him.  He told Metro.co.uk that he is taking his case to the High Court and in doing so will ‘stand up for the rights of every British citizen’. Phillips said: ‘It may be the opinion of the UK government that my work “destabilizes Ukraine”, but that is not a crime.  ‘Furthermore, it is a subjective misrepresentation of my work.  ‘I have been reporting from Donbass since 2014, no other British journalist has anything close to my amount of time reporting here, knowledge of the background of the situation, the current situation, has seen the things I’ve seen and reported on over the years.’ Phillips described the ‘unprecedented, aggressive, totalitarian actions’ of the UK government as being ‘designed to destroy my work, destroy me’. He said that the prisoner he interviewed in 2016 had not complained but ‘some people, for political reasons, did get very offended on his behalf’. Responding to his Molfar listing, Phillips said: ‘I support freedom of speech, if someone wants to put me on some list then they’re free to do that.  ‘I’m used to attempts to discredit me in order to discredit my work, it shows how scared of the truth certain entities and organizations are.’ Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End British teen 'gang-raped in Magaluf by mob who invited strangers to join in' Phillips added: ‘I know what I am, an independent British journalist doing my best, with soundness of mind and conscience, and clearness of purpose — that is to show the truth in everything I do.  ‘Not only this, but wherever possible I try to help people in need here, show kindness and decency at all times.  ‘If there are any actual accusations against me, I’m happy to hear them, and answer them, if there were ever to be any actual charges against me, then similarly I stand by everything I’ve done, and do.’ 

	MORE : The shadowy Russian military firms vying for power after Wagner mutiny

 Do you have a story you would like to share? Contact josh.layton@metro.co.uk Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed