NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A shadowy web of Russian private military contractors are flying under the radar in Ukraine amid the fallout from the Wagner group mutiny. The militias have a lower profile than Yevgeny Prigozhin’s mercenaries but include battle-hardened troops and a group led by neo-Nazis. While loosely defined as private military contractors (PMCs), they have opaque links between each other and Russia’s Ministry of Defence (MoD). One of the groups, Patriot, is said to have been formed as a counter-balance to Wagner under the auspices of the defence minister Sergei Shoigu, who has been the target of angry video tirades by Prigozhin. The formation was sanctioned by the US in April 23, 2023, with the Department of the Treasury’s listing stating that the entity was established in 2018 and is engaged in ‘defence activities’.  However, Patriot may be a generic term for a number of clandestine groups and individuals working in a ‘grey zone’ outside of Russia’s conventional military framework. The group, whose logo shows a fierce dog with red eyes, is among 25 entities active in Ukraine from the outset of Moscow’s aggression in 2014 to the present, according to the Molfar OSINT agency.  Their stock is now said to be increasing in the wake of the Wagner group’s aborted mutiny last weekend, with the reach of the various formations stretching across Ukraine, the Middle East and Africa.  A more notorious outfit, Rusich, is described as a ‘sabotage and assault reconnaissance group’ by an account on the Russian social media channel VKontakte. The group’s logo incorporates a Slavic symbol with neo-Nazi connotations and it has allegedly committed war crimes in Ukraine. 

	MORE : Visit our live blog for the updates on the Ukraine-Russia war

 Alec Bertina, an all-source analyst at the Grey Dynamics private intelligence firm, has been monitoring the ‘semi-state security formations’ taking on increased significance during the war in Ukraine.  ‘Patriot is incredibly opaque, and there are debates around how real it is,’ Bertina said.  ‘It is believed to have been set up by Shoigu as a counter-balance to Wagner. After the 2018 battle of Khasham in Syria, where US commandos slaughtered Wagner mercenaries, Shoigu realized he needed his own military element which was more controlled and without someone like Prigozhin at the helm who is happy to play political battles with the MoD ‘He acted after Wagner did a deal with a Syrian resource extraction firm in exchange for retaking a facility without informing the MoD. ‘Shoigu also needed fighters motivated by money and reports suggest that Patriot personnel are paid far higher than Wagner personnel, so it’s clearly a ruse to take people away from Wagner and towards Patriot.  ‘They do not appear to be as big as Wagner, no PMC in Russia is.’  The entity’s low profile is in stark contrast to Wagner, which Vladimir Putin has portrayed as having attempted to inflict civil war on Russia. Prigozhin and his troops occupied key points in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don before advancing on Moscow, a gambit which ended with the company’s financier exiled to Belarus.   Shoigu, who had been bitterly accused by Prigozhin of betraying Wagner troops by failing to provide ammunition, may now have a strengthened hand in Russia’s sphere of operations.  Yevgeny Shabaev, chairman of the All-Russia Officers’ Assembly, has also suggested that Patriot may consist of small units operating under a generic title. He told Russian online title Sobesednik that the fighters are paid around double their Wagner rivals at a rate of between 400,000 (£3,671) to a million roubles (£9,177) a month.   Other irregular units include Redut, said to have been roundly defeated by Ukrainian forces at the outset of the full-scale invasion, and several linked to the Russian state gas company Gazprom.   Western commentators also generally agree that the irregular forces offer the Russian state a way of operating beyond its borders and with levels of brutality, including towards their own troops, that might otherwise attract domestic or international legal scrutiny. ‘One journalist inside Russia has said Patriot may be just a name for a plausibly deniable unit of Russian special forces or the regular army that can be used in more aggressive ways abroad than the regular military,’ Bertina said. ‘Patriot are said to be in places such as Vuhledar or Bakhmut but there’s been no real proof.   ‘The most interesting thing I have seen is the Donetsk People’s Republic units where a quite capable and well-equipped unit has posted videos saying they are working with the PMC Patriot in Donetsk.    ‘But we don’t see any PMC Patriot operators. Even Russians struggle to understand which PMC is which, with a lot of the organisations using the same names and imagery.’  Rusich, said to have ties to Wagner, is led by fighters with neo-Nazi views and has left behind ‘serious evidence’ of war crimes in Ukraine, according to the Kharkiv Human Rights Protection Group.  Emerging from the Donbas war at the outset of Russian aggression in 2014, the group’s notoriety has been fuelled by photographs of its fighters posing alongside mutilated bodies and leader Alexey Milchakov displaying a sliced-off ear as a trophy in a video.    ‘Rusich are loosely connected to Wagner and they are a small, assault-capable force,’ Bertina said.   ‘They use Nazi ideology but it’s difficult to say for certain how much of it is coherent or semi-ironic.   ‘It is hard to know how much its members are committed ideologues or putting on an act while still being extreme members of the far-right.  ‘The ties between Rusich and the MoD and military intelligence are very opaque. They are operating in Ukraine, which means they will be using equipment from the MoD and they might have backers in the military who provide them with intelligence.     It seems they are smaller than most of the other Russian PMC units but they are experienced and have gained a lot of combat experience since 2014. They also have a very active online presence ‘As horrible as they are as people, Rusich are unfortunately very combat capable. They get a lot of support from the military blogger community in Russia, who are drawn to the fact they have been fighting since 2014 and have the equipment, aesthetic, and social media presence. ‘Rusich have filmed themselves killing animals in eastern Ukraine, mutilating puppies, and have called on their personnel to commit war crimes by taking no prisoners. It might be propaganda to try and frighten the enemy but they are a unit which has the reputation to follow through on these words.  ‘A lot of the videos originate on private social media groups before the content gets shared more widely.’  Putin has given Prigohzin and Wagner the options of their fighters signing over to the Russian Ministry of Defence, returning to their families or joining their financier in Belarus. The group has not complied with an ultimatum, issued to all Russian PMCs, to sign contracts with the MoD by July 1. With the Russian president internally weakened by his disastrous war in Ukraine as well as the insurgent activity taking place in Belgorod and unclaimed sabotage operations within the country, the paramilitary groups may find themselves playing a greater role in Russian power games.   While they are evidently carrying out aggressive Russian foreign policy, vested interests are also at play.  ‘Most of the PMCs are quasi-subordinate to the MoD and didn’t take Prigozhin’s side because they need resources such as weapons and intelligence,’ Bertina said.    ‘Looking at internal security, however, the PMCs also have elites behind them who could essentially be creating security guarantees for the war being a disaster, and people in Russia are definitely prepping for this being the case. Scenarios in which they could be used in the event of Putin’s downfall could include preventing a new rogue leader or a rival trying to take their assets by force in the absence of law.  ‘While these units are affiliated to the MoD, the elites are trying to build a rapport with the people who serve in them and they are personally equipping them and providing patronage so they can have control and influence over them. There’s a double-thinking there in that the elites are building these units up not just for the war in Ukraine, but in case the situation seriously deteriorates in Russia.’ Kacper Rekawek, a non-resident research fellow at the Counter Extremism Project, a Washington-based think tank, places the PMCs within a tradition of Russia having many different elements within its armed forces.  Some, such as groupings of Cossacks or Chechens, reflect different ethnic and regional identities. Another tradition Rekawek identifies is deniability; the ability to operate with stealth and to keep Ukraine and the West guessing. Added to the mix are long-standing links between the Russian state and the far-right, which crosses into the political sphere.’ ‘The PMCs, which are illegal under Russian law and are structured as NGOs or associations, neatly come into this scope and tradition,’ Rekawek said.  ‘If you create something which is deniable and does bad and rotten things for you, then it attracts bad and rotten people.   ‘Some of these people are coming from the extreme right.’  Rekawek has identified long-standing relationships between the PMCs, far-right Russian political organisations and the Kremlin, where ‘curators’ use groups that suit their interests.   In this long view, Wagner, Patriot and Rusich are the latest manifestations of this interface and the implication is that the trail of alleged human rights abuses leads to the Kremlin’s door.   ‘These organisations have agency, they are not simply tools and artificial creations of the Kremlin,’ Rekawek said.  ‘But they have agency on a Monday and on a Tuesday they don’t, because there is some kind of curator, switching them on and switching them off.’  Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End Mum 'died saving her family' as knifeman chased her children down the street Recriminations appear to be taking place after the failed Wagner coup, with Russia’s senior generals dropping out of public view this week.  Armed forces chief of staff General Valery Gerasimov has not appeared in public or on state TV since the rebellion, when Prigozhin demanded he be handed over. General Sergei Surovikin, nicknamed “General Armageddon” by the Russian press for his aggressive tactics in the Syrian conflict, has also been absent from view.  Russian authorities were said to be checking if General Surovikin had been complicit in the uprising, according to a New York Times report based on a US intelligence briefing. 

	MORE : Putin cannot simply ‘liquidate’ Wagner masterminds after mutiny

 Do you have a story you would like to share? Contact josh.layton@metro.co.uk Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed