Winnipeg
26° C, Cloudy with wind Full Forecast © 2024 Winnipeg Free Press Quick Links Ways to support us Replica E-Edition Business Arts & Life Sports Opinion Media Homes Canstar Community news Betting Guides About Us This browser doesn't support push notifications at the moment. Check browsers features, update your browser or try to use one from the list of recommended to manage your notifications settings: If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings for this site. Just click button below and allow notifications for this site Note Safari 16.4+ working on iOS devices also need this site app to be installed at device's Home Screen for Push Notifications to work Notifications are blocked for this site. If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings. Usually you'd need to click on site options icon to the left of address bar and change notifications preferences/permissions from there Urgent and important stories  Noteworthy news and features  Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions Advertisement Advertise with us MADISON, Wis. (AP) — The laws governing Wisconsin's multibillion-dollar liquor industry would be streamlined and updated under a sweeping measure passed by the state Assembly on Wednesday that's supported by groups from the smallest craft brewers to the largest national brewers, bar owners and alcohol distributors. Read this article for free:  Already have an account? Log in here » To continue reading, please subscribe: $19 $0 for the first 4 weeks* *No charge for 4 weeks then billed as $19 every four weeks (new subscribers and qualified returning subscribers only). Cancel anytime. MADISON, Wis. (AP) — The laws governing Wisconsin's multibillion-dollar liquor industry would be streamlined and updated under a sweeping measure passed by the state Assembly on Wednesday that's supported by groups from the smallest craft brewers to the largest national brewers, bar owners and alcohol distributors. Read unlimited articles for free today:  Already have an account? Log in here » 
Hey there, time traveller!
		This article was published 20/06/2023 (426 days ago), so information in it may no longer be current. 
	 MADISON, Wis. (AP) — The laws governing Wisconsin’s multibillion-dollar liquor industry would be streamlined and updated under a sweeping measure passed by the state Assembly on Wednesday that’s supported by groups from the smallest craft brewers to the largest national brewers, bar owners and alcohol distributors. The massive overhaul to the laws affecting the production, distribution and sale of alcohol passed with broad bipartisan support. The measure now heads to the Senate for final approval. Democratic Gov. Tony Evers, who was involved with discussions of the measure, is expected to sign it into law. The proposal would create a new division within the state Department of Revenue, which would be in charge of overseeing and enforcing the state’s alcohol laws. The absence of such a unit now has led to inconsistent enforcement of the law — and questions over how they affect new businesses that weren’t envisioned when the laws were enacted, supporters of the bill said. Those who worked on the measure with Republican legislative leaders say now is the time to update laws in a state that saw the birth of beer-giant Miller in Milwaukee and in recent years has seen an explosion of craft brewers, like New Glarus Brewing Co. which makes Spotted Cow and other beers available for sale only in Wisconsin. “Alcohol has a rich history in the state of Wisconsin but it does need to be regulated,” said the measure’s Republican cosponsor, Rep. Rob Swearingen. “It’s regulated because we’re not selling chocolate milk. We’re not selling Jolly Good Soda.” He said the measure offers good compromises with all the key members of the alcohol industry. “I can tell you that all of them love some of it and all of them hate some of it,” Swearingen said ahead of the vote. “But at the end of the day, this is the package that they themselves, the stakeholders, put together.” Democrats also praised the measure, which passed on a bipartisan 90-4 vote. “It’s a good bill,” said Democratic Rep. Christine Sinicki. “It’s a compromise bill.” The bill affects every level of the state’s alcohol industry governing the licensing, producing, selling and distribution of beer, wine and liquor. The so-called three-tier system, created in the 1930s, has been eyed for changes for years, but policymakers and the alcohol industry have been unable to reach agreement. The three-tiered system was designed to prevent monopolies, so the same company could not produce and sell alcohol at the wholesale and retail levels. But for years the system has been criticized for not keeping up with changes in the industry, including the explosion of small craft breweries and the rising popularity of wedding barns. The bill would require venues that provide alcohol at special events, known generally as wedding barns, to be regulated in a new way. They could either get a permit that would allow them to host events six times a year or no more than once a month — or obtain a liquor license that would allow them to sell alcohol at as many events as they wish. Wedding barn owners mounted the loudest objections to the measure, saying the new requirements would be too expensive and onerous, and would put them out of business. Many wedding barns do not currently have liquor licenses. They instead contract with others who bring alcohol to the barns for events. Assembly Speaker Robin Vos, who helped broker the deal resulting in the bill, downplayed concerns of wedding barn owners. Monday mornings The latest local business news and a lookahead to the coming week. “I love the wedding barn industry,” Vos said ahead of the vote. “I think it’s great that we have entrepreneurs who do it, but they have to follow the law, they have to follow the rules.” Supporters of the changes say they level the playing field between wedding barns, which don’t need a license, and banquet halls, taverns and others who must get liquor licenses to operate. The bill would also allow for expanded hours at wineries and would regulate them the same as craft breweries and distilleries. It would permit brew pubs to operate stand-alone retail stores and allow craft breweries to sell products from other out-of-state breweries. The bill would also create new guidance for contract brewing, winemaking and distilling, which is a growing segment of the industry. The measure also creates a new statewide bartender license. Currently, bartenders are licensed by local municipality, a system that proponents of the change argued is cumbersome. It also allows for bars in 14 southeastern Wisconsin counties to stay open two to four hours longer than the current 2 a.m. limit — during the Republican National Convention next summer in Milwaukee. The measure has broad support. Its backers include Anheuser-Busch Companies, the Tavern League of Wisconsin, Kwik Trip, Molson Coors Brewing Co., New Glarus Brewing Company, the Wisconsin Craft Beverage Coalition, the Wisconsin Grocers Association, and the Wisconsin Wine and Spirit Institute. Advertisement Advertise With Us Advertisement Advertise With Us Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions  LOAD MORE