Do you remember that euphoric kind of happiness that comes up when something stressful is finally over with? Whether it's passing a test or speaking in front of a crowd, nothing comes close to that relief, joy, and pride of knowing you got through it. I'd like to think that's exactly how Penny the rescue cow felt as she took in her peaceful surroundings at @woodstocksanctuary. This heartwarming video from 2021 shows just how far she's come since she realized she's finally safe at home. It's priceless! View the original article to see embedded media. Penny looks so happy! I was waiting for her to lazily lie down and enjoy the sunshine, but this reaction was even better. It perfectly encapsulates rescue animals' bliss and freedom when they know they'll never be hurt again. I love what commenter @overpricedanxiety said about the precious cow: "Penny deserves the entire world and then some." I couldn't agree more! Her rescuers feel the same way, so Penny lives an entirely different life than she did just a few years ago. In their video description, Woodstock Farm Animal Sanctuary mentioned that Penny was rescued from a hoarding situation in 2021. After adjusting to life in her new home--and building major confidence--the black and white cow made some animal friends and learned to run the place. She is well cared for and immensely loved, though watching her get a pedicure has to be my favorite thing. View the original article to see embedded media. She did so great! It's easy to see how much she trusts her caretaker, Ally, and the team who helped care for her hooves. If this isn't a happy pampered cow--we don't know what is! Looking for more PetHelpful updates? Follow us on YouTube for more entertaining videos. Or, share your own adorable pet by submitting a video, and sign up for our newsletter for the latest pet updates and tips. READ THE COMMENTS New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace.