For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Al Roker and Deborah Roberts are beaming with pride at their 19-year-old son Nick. Nick, who graduated this past spring, gave a sermon at his family’s church as part of its Recognition Sunday worship. In his speech, Nick took time to reflect on what led him up to that moment. He also went on to reveal just how much being a part of the church has shaped him throughout his life. Al Roker and Deborah Roberts are beaming after a monumental weekend with their son, Nick. Nick, who is a 19-year-old senior graduating this spring, was given the opportunity to give a sermon at his family’s church as part of its Recognition Sunday worship. “I wanted to share just a small part of our son, Nick’s, sermon today at church,” Al captioned a 3-minute clip on Instagram. “I could not be prouder of who he is and what he has accomplished. His parents are proud and I know his grandparents are looking down and are even prouder.” In his speech, Nick took time to reflect on what led him up to that moment. “I have a learning disability and I have worked extra hard to get to this point,” he shared. “This last semester, I earned all As on my report card. It feels really good. But my accomplishments haven’t all been about school. They have also been about perseverance here at St. James.” He went on to reveal just how much being a part of the church has shaped and soothed him throughout his life, often being interrupted by applause from the audience. The fact that he even had such a chance made Al that much more grateful for his church family — especially his pastor and the youth minister. “Our pastor, @boncape and Children/Youth Minister, Vicki Hall have always been in his corner, as has his fellow acolytes like Baker,” Al highlighted in his post.  Loving a feel-good moment, Al’s fans and co-stars were quick to share in his celebrations of Nick. “Not sure how you could possibly have held it together watching your boy do that…what a privilege and he knocked it out of the park!!! you must be beyond proud!!” Dylan Dreyer commented. “Blown away!! Go Nick go!!!” Savannah Guthrie wrote. “As a high school teacher of students with disabilities, I can’t love this enough! Hard work pays off and I know you’re all so proud!! I’m sure [his] teachers are beaming with pride as well,” one fan added. And the accolades just keep rolling in. Kudos to you, Nick! And to you, Al and Deborah, for raising such a fine young man. You Might Also Like Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement