Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Сheck out news that is picked exactly for YOU ➡️  find the “Recommended for you” block on the home page and enjoy! Anambra - Gunmen have struck again in Anambra, setting ablaze many buildings, including those that belong to the state deputy speaker, Pascal Agbodike and one of the traditional rulers. Daily Trust reported that the assailant also burned two buildings belonging to the President-General of Osumoghu, Nze Denis Muomaife. Legit.ng gathers that this was disclosed at a meeting between stakeholders from the Anambra South senatorial zone and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  ahead of the 2023 general elections. Read also Hope for Peter Obi as top Igbo group endorses him, Labour Party ahead of 2023 presidential election The meeting bordered on voter education and the security situation in the southeastern state. PAY ATTENTION: Share your outstanding story with our editors! Please reach us through info@corp.legit.ng! The state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Queen Elizabeth Agwu, asked the stakeholders whether elections would be held in those communities because of their current volatile state. Responding, the president-general of the Osumoghu community in Nnewi South, Denis Muomaife, said two of his buildings were burnt two weeks ago by some unknown persons. In spite of the tragic incidents, Muomaife said the community had set up a Peace and Reconciliation Committee in making sure that such issues were tackled in no time. Read also 2023: Anambra traditional rulers did not endorse Atiku, monarch reveals reason for meeting with PDP candidate The REC, Queen Elizabeth Agwu, said it was time the Anambra youths take possession of their lands and protect the people. She said insecurity in Igboland was caused by the indigenes and not imported persons. In another report, a commissioner in the Ebonyi state House of Assembly commission, Barrister Leonard Chibuzor Alegu, was shot dead in Anambra state by unknown gunmen.  Legit.ng's regional reporter in Anambra, Mokwugwo Solomon, reported that the incident occurred in the late hours of Saturday, December 17, along the Enugu-Onitsha expressway, in Umunya community, Oyi local government area of Anambra state.  A source hinted that the deceased was travelling from Abakaliki to Onitsha to attend a child dedication when the incident occurred. Source: Legit.ng 

                Nurudeen Lawal                                    (Head of Politics and Current Affairs Desk)
                            
Nurudeen Lawal is an AFP-certified journalist with a wealth of experience spanning over 8 years. He received his B/Arts degree in Literature-in-English from OAU. Lawal is the Head of the Politics/CA Desk at Legit.ng, where he applies his expertise to provide incisive coverage of events. He was named the Political Desk Head of the Year (Nigeria Media Nite-Out Award 2023). He is also a certified fact-checker (Dubawa fellowship, 2020). Contact him at lawal.nurudeen@corp.legit.ng or +2347057737768.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you