or Remember me or Enter for the Chance to Win an Ultimate At-Home Coffee Bar Package EAST HANOVER, N.J., May 8, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Just ahead of Mother's Day, the belVita brand is teaming up with Emmy award-winning host, author, actress, producer, entrepreneur and mom of two Tamera Mowry-Housley, to encourage busy moms to "Rise and Thrive" by taking much-needed time for themselves in the mornings, even in those little moments between a seemingly endless list of to-do's.  "With summer right around corner, moms are starting to feel the pressure of getting organized for everything from summer camps to family vacations and childcare needs. That's why I'm proud to team up with the belVita brand, to encourage moms to pause their busy schedules and take an extra moment for themselves, to thrive on their own terms," said Tamera Mowry-Housley. "The 'me time' in my morning routine starts when I make my coffee and then pair it with delicious belVita Breakfast Biscuits, fruit and low-fat yogurt. belVita gives me the steady morning energy I need to rise and thrive." To help a few lucky moms take their moments to thrive to the next level, belVita is inviting their Instagram followers to enter for the chance to win the ultimate "Thrive-Thru @ Home" coffee bar prize package curated by Tamera Mowry-Housley (espresso maker, coffee maker, coffee cart and more – including, of course, belVita Breakfast Biscuits). From May 8 – 19, belVita will invite Instagram followers to comment on their Sweepstakes Post and tag someone they think deserves a moment to thrive. Each randomly selected winning entry, and the nominee they tag, will receive the prize package so they can support each other while both enjoying the ultimate at-home coffee bar experience paired perfectly with belVita Breakfast Biscuits as part of a balanced breakfast. Another opportunity to thrive just before Mother's Day comes Thursday, May 11 from 9:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. ET, when belVita will host a Thrive-Thru pop-up event at Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, NY. Moms can drive through a huge sun tunnel with a zen sensory experience full of flowers, fragrance, and music. At the end of the sun tunnel, moms will pick up a complimentary coffee paired perfectly with belVita Breakfast Biscuits, along with other fun surprises to help them rise and thrive. "At belVita we're passionate about celebrating moms as their partner in shine to help spread positivity all morning long," said Mariama Boamah, Marketing Director, belVita at Mondelez International. "With our Rise & Thrive campaign, we hope to empower moms to take a moment each morning, that is truly and only for themselves – and, to encourage other moms and caretakers to do the same so we can all thrive together." In collaboration with belVita, Tamera Mowry-Housley also created five "mom-tras" that that help her thrive. They are: Abbreviated Sweepstakes Rules
    
NO PURCHASE OR SCAN NECESSARY. A PURCHASE OR SCAN WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. OPEN TO RESIDENTS OF 50 U.S. (D.C.) & PR, 18 YEARS OR OLDER. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED. Sweepstakes ends 5/19/23. For Official Rules, prize descriptions and odds disclosure, visit https://bit.ly/3KL2cI4. Sponsor: Mondelez Global LLC, 100 Deforest Avenue, East Hanover, NJ 07936. About Mondelez International
    
Mondelez International, Inc. (Nasdaq: MDLZ) empowers people to snack right in over 150 countries around the world. With 2022 net revenues of approximately $31 billion, MDLZ is leading the future of snacking with iconic global and local brands such as Oreo, Ritz, LU, Clif Bar and Tate's Bake Shop biscuits and baked snacks, as well as Cadbury Dairy Milk, Milka and Toblerone chocolate. Mondelez International is a proud member of the Standard and Poor's 500, Nasdaq 100 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Visit www.mondelezinternational.com or follow the company on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/MDLZ.   View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/belvita-breakfast-biscuits-and-tamera-mowry-housley-team-up-to-help-busy-moms-rise--thrive-this-summer-301818450.html SOURCE Mondelez International, Inc. Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today