Richard E Grant has paid a special tribute to his late wife, Joan Washington, on what would have been her birthday. The Game of Thrones star tweeted today (Wednesday 21 December) in memory of Washington, who died in September 2021. Grant, 65, had been married to the dialect coach for 35 years and they were together for a total of 38. She died eight months after being diagnosed with stage four lung cancer. Posting a photograph of Washington on Twitter, he wrote: “Taken on her last ever birthday, 21st December – my beloved late wife Joan. Her bravery, fortitude, resistance and acceptance of her diagnosis, are an inexhaustible inspiration. “I miss her more than is measurable.” The actor shared the news of Washington’s passing on Twitter on 3 September 2021 by posting a video of the couple dancing in their home to “Only You” by The Platters. He wrote: “ONLY YOU! Joan – Love of my Life and Giver of Life to our daughter Olivia. Our hearts are broken with the loss of your Life last night. 35 years married and 38 together. To be truly known and seen by you, is your immeasurable gift. Do not forget us, sweet Monkee-mine.” Writing in the Daily Mail shortly after his announcement, Grant revealed that Washington had been diagnosed with lung cancer in 2020, just “two days before Christmas”. Taken on her last ever birthday, 21st December - my beloved late wife Joan. Her bravery, fortitude, resistance and acceptance of her diagnosis, are an inexhaustible inspiration. I miss her more than is measurable. ❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/hV9alCeqlQ — Richard E. Grant (@RichardEGrant) December 21, 2022 He described her as being “accepting, clear-sighted, sanguine and totally without self pity” after receiving her diagnosis. “It’s been my privilege to be by your side, sharing our last eight months together, enabling us to say everything we possibly wanted and needed to, so that when you asked Olivia and me two weeks ago ‘to let me go’, we unequivocally said ‘yes’,” he wrote. “Olivia and I are profoundly grateful for everything that you’ve gifted us with, and we’re relieved that you no longer have to struggle for breath.” In April, the Withnail and I star told fans he was trying to find happiness again in Washington’s absence. He posted a video to social media of himself walking on a beach on Australia’s Gold Coast and said it felt “like a whole new world, navigating solo after 38 years”. “Joan so wisely asked me to find a pocketful of happiness in each day,” Grant continued, adding: “Try my best.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.