BroadLight Capital, the investment firm founded by entertainment attorney Kevin Yorn, talent manager Rick Yorn and investment banker David Dorfman is launching a $225 million debut fund targeting growth stage consumer and tech companies. The Yorn brothers’ entertainment advisory firms, LBI Entertainment and Yorn Levine, represent major names in film, television, sports and music. The broad relationships across media and entertainment can “help CEOs solve endemic issues around customer acquisition and engagement,” said the firm, which was founded in 2021. Its investments so far include Zapp, a London based commerce delivery platform; MoonPay, a crypto payment infrastructure company; and Merama, a Latin American e-commerce platform. More from Deadline Yorn Levine Adds New Partner, Senior Counsels & Associate To Law Firm Roster 'Squid Game's Hwang Dong-hyuk & Kim Ji-yeon Lawyer Up; Yorn, Levine, Barnes To Rep In All Areas Yorn Levine Barnes Law Firm Promotes Four To Partner “BroadLight is a natural extension of the client-focused businesses that my brother Rick and I have each led for the past thirty years,” said Kevin Yorn. “We have introduced hundreds of high growth businesses and their founders to our network that extends beyond the global entertainment business and reaches entrepreneurs, creatives, investors and influencers of culture. BroadLight, its partners, and our clients are now uniquely positioned to participate further in this differentiated deal flow. We are proud of what we have built, and we are so grateful for our existing and new relationships that make this exciting new chapter possible.” Managing partner Dorfman was previously Global Head of Technology, Media & Telecom Investment Banking at Macquarie Capital. “After over two decades on Wall Street, the opportunity to launch a new firm with such a unique story was too exciting to pass up,” said Dorfman. “In combining the Yorns’ extraordinary network with a first-rate team of investment professionals and a fundamentals-based approach to underwriting, we believe we have the foundation to build something special.” BroadLight’s central thesis is that the convergence of technology, consumer, and entertainment sectors will accelerate in the coming decade. For growth businesses across the technology and consumer landscape, traditional customer acquisition channels such as Facebook and Google advertising have eroded as data privacy concerns have prompted regulatory and policy changes, such as Apple’s App Tracking Transparency (ATT) framework. Partnering with artists, athletes, entertainers, and premium content platforms is often an attractive alternative for customer acquisition and value creation. BroadLight also announced that former TCV and Wellington investor Landon Jaussi has joined as a Partner. Best of Deadline Cannes Film Festival Photos Day 2: Johnny Depp, Pedro Almodovar, ‘Anselm’ & More Renewed TV Series 2023: A Photo Gallery 2023 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.