The move will allow the carmaker to offer advanced navigation features and boost its competition with Tesla and Chinese automakers. The move comes as carmakers old and new race to match Tesla’s software-powered capabilities, including self-driving and battery range updates. Mercedes’ collaboration with Google will provide traffic information and automatic rerouting in its cars and enable drivers to watch YouTube on the entertainment system when parked or in Level 3 autonomous driving mode. This mode allows drivers to take their eyes off the wheel on certain roads as long as they can resume control if necessary. Mercedes is also working with semiconductor maker Nvidia to reduce the upfront costs of buying expensive, high-powered semiconductors. Also read: Tesla’s Autopilot runs from German police with driver asleep It can do so while maximizing joint revenue, even if drivers do not use every feature enabled by the chip. Customers paying for an extra option package will have Lidar sensor technology and other hardware for automated Level 3 driving, but this comes at a higher variable cost. Mercedes owns a small stake in self-driving sensor maker Luminar Technologies, which has struck a multi-billion dollar deal with the carmaker to integrate its sensors across a range of vehicles by the middle of the decade. Mercedes’ announcements were made during a software update day in Sunnyvale, California. The company detailed its move from a patchwork approach integrating software from various suppliers to controlling the core of its software and bringing partners in. After rolling out its new MB.OS (operating system), the company expects that figure to rise to a high single-digit billion euro figure by 2030. All vehicles on Mercedes’ upcoming modular architecture platform will have so-called “hyperscreens” extending across the car’s cockpit, providing an immersive digital experience for drivers. Mercedes’ conservative estimate of software-enabled revenues as a proportion of total revenue differs from others like Stellantis and General Motors, which have put forward higher estimates. According to Mercedes CEO Ola Kaellenius, “We take a prudent approach because no-one knows how big that potential pot of gold is at this stage.” Google / Mercedes / Nvidia / Self-driving vehicles / supercomputer  "*" indicates required fields 
Intel and subsidiary Altera have unveiled new chips and FPGAs optimiz... 
The Apple Vision Pro is Apple's first major product launch in 2024. T... 
Keeping a store running successfully today is about much more than pu... 
When you think of Manhattan Associates, you might think of an expensi... 
Starting this October, developers will be required to provide their most recent name and address information ... 
Not every Windows 10 machine can make the move to Windows 11. For the ones that can however, Microsoft tries ... 
Apple is going to open up its NFC and tap-to-pay Secure Element functionality in iOS to alternative providers... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.