President and CEO of Vodafone US Inc., leading Vodafone Business commercial operations throughout North America.   Many motorists paying exorbitant gas prices have probably spent considerable time lately wondering when we’ll finally give up internal combustion engines and switch to more electric vehicles (EVs). They may be surprised to learn that, according to a KPMG survey, auto industry executives are less bullish about prospects for these energy-efficient options, and we should be considering what it will take to accelerate adoption. It is not difficult to imagine why executives are more pessimistic these days. Despite governments saying half of new car sales should be EVs by 2030 and automakers setting serious targets for going mostly electric, there have been bumps along the way. For one, it will take billions of dollars in public and private sector investment for charging stations, batteries and vehicles. So far, that investment is spotty around the world, and a looming economic crisis isn’t likely to help with that very much. Component shortages haven’t helped much either. And driver concerns about EV travel ranges, a lack of charging stations and the cost of locating, purchasing and maintaining these evolving machines continue to slow adoption. Still, I am optimistic that the industry will overcome most of these worries sooner than later. Why? Because there is enough support to make this trend reversible, EV engineering is improving at an impressive clip and Internet of Things (IoT) features and services are coming online to make it real. Indeed, I believe IoT capabilities could be poised to help clear many, if not most, of the roadblocks. We know, for example, that range anxiety is a significant barrier to EV sales. About 10% to 40% of new vehicles sold globally are EVs currently, depending on the country. Numerous surveys show that EVs can only run about 250 to 300 miles before needed a charge, which is a huge problem for potential buyers since petrol stations still far outnumber electric ports. IoT technology won’t directly solve that problem. Still, emerging IoT technologies for vehicle sensing and analytics will be able to pull and share data with drivers and fleet managers to improve range efficiency and deliver real-time safety and traffic information directly to EV navigation systems. Moreover, emerging satellite technology should not only help improve cellular connectivity for motorists in remote areas but could be able to locate IoT devices in EVs within centimeters of their actual positions, enabling them to “speak” with other vehicles, motorists and digital infrastructure. Such innovation will reduce the risk of private and commercial motorists running out of power on lonely, desolate stretches of road and play an even more significant role in the commercial sector as more companies operate fleets of electric cars and trucks. Some fleets already use cloud-based telematics and IoT solutions to monitor battery levels and fuel consumption, as well as driver behavior. For example, Scania Trucks reportedly uses IoT sensors to track various vehicle data to remotely spot potential maintenance issues. Diagnostics and service plans can be viewed on mobile apps and web portals. Using IoT devices with telematics technology in these ways can help drivers move about more efficiently, limit idling times and overall fuel consumption, reduce operating and insurance costs, and accelerate public and private sector pledges to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within the next few decades (specific commitment dates vary by region). From a convenience standpoint, IoT technology could additionally help EV motorists locate and transact with charging stations, especially those using renewable energy. Digital platforms are popping up in Europe to give EV drivers real-time information on the status and compatibility of the closest charging points. Some are also beginning to use blockchain technology to verify that the business is trustworthy and automatically allows the exchange of data and payments over secure and encrypted connections. This system could also help drivers find, book and pay for digitally enabled parking lots or garages. Beyond improving EV driving efficiency, IoT technology can also help parts manufacturers turn their attention from engines and exhaust to batteries and electronics. EV components are highly intricate and tricky to manufacture. For example, producing batteries and electric motors for a single EV requires around 1,000 welds. Some auto assembly plants are already using private wireless networks to capture and analyze images at every stage of the laser-welding process using artificial intelligence (AI) to spot any areas needing adjustment or rewelding. Data collected through IoT mechanisms during laser welding can, for example, help identify the build-up of heat in camera lenses to avoid product failure. To be clear, I am not suggesting that any technological advancements will catapult electric vehicles into the mainstream in the next few years. Too many speed bumps are in the way. For instance, there will need to be considerable investment in public fast-charging infrastructure, which could take a decade or more to accomplish. Purchase prices will need to be more approachable for the average motorist. Materials shortages and supply chain issues will have to be resolved. And people will have to be willing to part with their romantic attachments to the sights, sounds and smells of combustion-engine vehicles. Still, there is every reason to believe that as IoT makes electric vehicles more fun, manageable and practical, many barriers to adoption could become mere memories in our rearview mirrors. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 