PureWow Editors select every item that appears on this page,, and the company may earn compensation through affiliate links within the story You can learn more about that process here. Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. Read the original article on Purewow. You swore you'd never let it happen again, but somehow, someway, Halloween is looming (there are 11 days left, just FYI), and you're stuck without a costume. If the panic has started to set in that you you've got nothing to wear to your friend's themed party that's *checks calendar* next week (internally screaming) or even just something fun and comfortable to take your kids trick-or-treating in, take a nice, deep breath and repeat after us: There's no good reason to cut holes in your bedsheets for a last-minute ghost ensemble. This is why Amazon exists! You don't even have to waste time finding the goods, because we’ve combed through hundreds of options on the site for the most perfect picks imaginable, from this year’s iconic Barbie box costume ($44) to a classic Winifred Sanderson dress (from $50). Yes, friends, we’re talking about the best Amazon Halloween costumes. A great Halloween costume should be one that’s recognizable enough that you won’t have to launch into a monologue to explain what you're supposed to be every five minutes. It should be comfortable enough to wear for several hours (without something falling off or needing to be reattached), and, most importantly, it should be something that reflects your personality. It should also arrive on time courtesy of Amazon. (Thank you, Prime member shipping!) Taking all of the above into account, we found 35 costumes that reflect the current pop culture landscape for 2023, paying homage to characters from popular movies or TV shows, superheroes, talked-about figures and more. We also considered quality, function and design, seeking out options that would be authentic without the addition of too many other accessories or accouterments. Additionally, we scoured reviews from previous buyers. Without further ado, check out our favorites below. Want to know which buzzy products are *really* worth buying? Sign up for our shopping newsletter to uncover our favorite finds. Amazon Come on, Barbie, let’s go party…and win the Best Costume of the Year award. Consisting of a box that you can climb inside and the connectors that hold it together, this is a super recognizable option you won't freeze in it. Since you can basically wear whatever you want inside of it, you can even show off your personality in it, whether you're a Malibu Barbie, Surgeon Barbie, Astronaut Barbie Weird Barbie or something else entirely. In short? This costume ticks nearly all of our boxes—pun intended. $44 at amazon Amazon Whether he's the Ken to your Barbie or Kenough on his own, this rollerblading costume for him is sure to make a splash. It comes with tons of accessories (wristbands, visor and all), and the top, vest and shorts are made of a stretchy polyester and spandex blend that should be relatively comfortable. He can also mix and match the pieces to be his most authentic self. $45 at amazon Amazon If there’s just one Halloween movie we’re sure to watch each year, it’s Hocus Pocus (and now, Hocus Pocus 2). This year, you can release your inner Winifred Sanderson for a totally witchin’ evening thanks to this officially licensed getup, which will not only look great, it will also keep you nice and warm. According to the company, it's best to size up in this one if you're in-between sizes. And don’t forget the matching fiery red wig ($27) to complete your spell-binding look! from $50 at amazon Amazon Looking for something that’ll frame your face? Become a true work of art with this Mona Lisa kit. This printed picture is a replica of Leonardo da Vinci's famed Mona Lisa and features a cutout in the center for your visage. You'll also find the tubes and connectors you need to support the makeshift frame. It's quick, it's easy and it's definitely creative. Trust us: There’s no better way to portray yourself. $40 at amazon Amazon This top and skirt set mirrors the one Taylor wore in her "Shake It Off" video, making for a swift way to usher in your 1989 era. Amazon shoppers say it's comfy enough for a night of Halloween debauchery, and those planning to hit the Eras Tour movie can get double use out of it. Depending on your size, it may or may not arrive by Halloween, however, so double check your delivery date. from $43; $39 at amazon Amazon Channel the late Hollywood starlet in this simple-yet-sexy white replica halter dress from her famed 1955 film, The Seven Year Itch. This pleated dress has fabric ties at the back will help you get a just-right fit. All you'll need to do is add a pair of heels, a blonde wig ($22) and some bright red lipstick and find a vent to best recreate that iconic photo... from $39; $28 at amazon Amazon After a deep dive into Google Trends, Boohoo has predicted that Indiana Jones will be one of the biggest men's costumes of 2023, no doubt thanks in large part to Harrison Ford's return as the the character for Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. Luckily, his look is fairly simple to recreate with the help of this distressed brown bomber jacket that's made with real leather. It's got side adjustment belts to help him get the best fit, and, if he really wants to go all out, he can throw in the matching tan workshirt ($27) fedora ($60) and Indy's famous whip ($20). Best of all, shoppers say the jacket is really high-quality, so he can wear it after long after the holiday's over. As with other costumes on the list, select sizes may arrive late, so double check when yours will come. from $103 at amazon Amazon Another top costume prediction, this M3gan dress makes for a cheeky horror film nod that hasn't been done a million times over. (We're looking at you, Shining twins.) It comes with an attached satin bow, is made of polyester (which, FYI, is known to trap heat—a plus on a chilly Halloween night) and will make you look super sweet...just don't get "M3gan" mad! $48 at amazon Amazon  Grimace had a real moment earlier this year with his viral Grimace shake trend, in which users pretended to meet an untimely fate after trying one of the mascot's new berry-flavored milkshakes. Now, he's about to have another one with this suit costume, which comes in both adult and kid sizes. Nice and toasty, it's just the thing for helping your kid collect *all* the candy outdoors. It's also a great option for those who can't be bothered with the minutiae. $63 at amazon Amazon Hot on the heels of the new Disney remake, we're (re)visiting this iconic green-and-white Haunted Mansion frock. Instantly recognizable to anyone who has ever gone on the classic Walt Disney World ride, this dress has a nice, thick material per Amazon reviewers (no shivering here!) and it includes the apron and headpiece, too. $41 at amazon Amazon  According to HalloweenCostumes.com and Boohoo, Super Mario costumes are already proving to be a big draw for 2023, with Princess Peach in particular garnering a lot of buzz. This princess costume lets you choose how you want to portray her, since it comes in two colors, and all her regal accessories (think the crown and gloves) come included in the bag. Check out the estimated delivery date before purchasing, however, as certain sizes may arrive much later than others. from $40; $38 at amazon Amazon All hail the evil queen of Halloween! Your loyal subjects will no doubt be wowed by this sleek Maleficent costume, which comes with its very own cape shawl and horns. The quality is impeccable, per reviewers, and the dress is something you can simply add to your wardrobe when you're done dressing up. Just be careful with the feathers—shoppers say they can fall out. $70; $60 at amazon Amazon When it comes to female empowerment, there’s no better rep than Rosie the Riveter. With this throwback costume, you can celebrate the hard-working women of yore who clocked in at factories and shipyards during World War II. You’ll have to put in your own work on those biceps to master Rosie's iconic flex, though. You'll also want to pay attention to the delivery dates, as smaller sizes may arrive after the holiday. $48; $22 at amazon Amazon This costume is "the one that we want" to wear in homage to the late Olivia Newton-John. It's officially licensed for a more authentic feel, and the sexy black pants have an elastic waistband and belt that will help you shimmy into them. Just add red heels ($69), a faux leather jacket ($64) and teased hair, and you’ll be ready to sing and dance the night away. from $40; $30 at amazon Amazon Knock out several holidays in one with this full Grinch set that just might be the most fun costume of them all. This head-to-toe look goes from the tip of his Grinchy Christmas hat right down to his red ball adorned footies. It's breathable and comfy, too: this according to Amazon shoppers who have worn it, though the mask can be reportedly difficult to see out of. Another pro tip? Wear bottoms under the legs: Shoppers say they're a bit see-through. $70 at amazon Amazon Look familiar? That's because this rollerblading Barbie costume is the perfect match for the no. 2 pick on our list. Complete with a pink leotard, leggings, a pair of neon wristbands, and a sun visor, this ‘80s-inspired collection is a skate away from rolling through Venice Beach à la Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling. Most customers say it runs pretty big, though, so we suggest sizing down if you want a better fit. $37 at amazon Amazon Having launched her own series on Disney+ in August, Ahsoka Tano from The Mandalorian fame has our own vote of confidence for one of the hottest Star Wars-themed costumes this year. With this set, you’ll get her distinctive headpiece, along with the top, pants, belts, wristbands, leggers and kneepads, making it easy to become the former Jedi Padawan (aka Anakin Skywalker’s one-time apprentice). from $96 at Amazon Amazon Wednesday came out on Netflix to much fanfare last year, but everyone is still clamoring to be its lead, according to Boohoo. This dress, which we can totally see Jenna Ortega in, is made of a comfy and breathable cotton and spandex blend and features an iconic Peter Pan collar. Pigtails, black lipstick ($20) and a brooding face are all you'll need to really drive it home. We also love that the dress will work as a regular wardrobe item once the holiday is through. $25 at amazon Amazon Wanna make a splash at your ghoulish neighborhood gathering? You'll appreciate the intricate detailing of this Morph Cleopatra look. With a dramatic cape that attaches at the back and the wrist, a jeweled belt, wristcuffs and a regal headpiece, it will undoubtedly make a statement, and the soft robe-like material of the dress will be nice and comfy, too. $43 at amazon Amazon Throw it way back to the ‘20s with this flapper costume that will make you feel like you’ve walked straight out of a scene from The Great Gatsby. It comes with the whole shebang—the dress, a faux pearl necklace and bracelet, long satin gloves, a cigarette holder, a headband and earrings—so you’ll have everything you need to dance, throw back a cocktail and generally have a roaring good time. from $50 at amazon Amazon "It's a me, Mario!" Or, at the very least, it's someone who looks just like him after a little help from the Nintendo legend's famous cap, mustache (take your pick when it comes to the shape), white gloves and suspenders that come in this set. The hat has an elastic band inside that enable it to fit a wide range of sizes and the buttons can be sewn or glued onto your costume. $22 at amazon Amazon Comfortable? Check. Humorous? Check. Instantly recognizable? After seeing the Progressive commercials umpteenth times over the years, it certainly should be! This officially licensed Flo apron, which more than a few reviewers mentioned is actually embroidered—not printed—speaking to the quality, comes paired with a wig you can use whenever the urge strikes. You’ll even get Flo's adorable little “I heart insurance” pin. While the wig can be unruly, one reviewer mentioned that they had better luck when adding in in a hair volume tool ($7). $40 at amazon Amazon We get it: You're busy, and there's not much extra time in the day to fuss around with wigs, makeup and the like. But who said you had to? For $28, you can throw on this red-and-white-striped hat, T-shirt and socks, plus the Waldo-esque glasses, to quickly become everyone's favorite elusive children's book character. It's also available in a men's and child's version, so you can match with the fam. Certain sizes may arrive after the holiday, however, so pay attention to the delivery dates when ordering. $28 at amazon Amazon You don’t need a sorting hat to help decide your costume this year: This patched skirt means you'll be a shoo-in as a Gryffindor to show off your Hogwarts pride. It’s also one of the easiest costumes of the bunch (just note that the shirt and tie are not included, though you can buy them as a bundle for $34). Accio, Halloween treats! (Note: Select sizes will arrive late.) from $24; $15 at amazon Amazon While you’ll find several officially licensed costumes on this list, our favorite has to be this Rockford Peaches baseball dress, which has the full backing of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League the movie was based on. The dress, hat and red belt are all included—you can even get the dress personalized. You'll probably want to pick up a pair of red shorties ($23) to wear underneath it, however, as loads of shoppers say the dress is super short. from $65; $45 at amazon Amazon Thanks to Bring It On's recent 20th anniversary, the Rancho Carne Toros are in the spotlight once again, and you can be part of their enduring legacy with this Materuis Bring It On costume. It comes with the top bearing the fictional high school's letters and a matching skirt, though shoppers say you may want to grab a pair of shorts ($12) to wear underneath, since it's on the shorter side. Better start practicing those spirit fingers... $40 at amazon Amazon Unicorns aren’t real…or are they? You’ll feel ultra-comfortable in this plush, fleece onesie when you wear it on all Hallow’s Eve (and likely beyond). It’s got built-in pockets for your belongings (ahem…or a few sugary treats) and we love the blend of happy pastel colors. $30 at amazon Amazon Since Halloween is merely but a "world of pure imagination," why not give a nod to a film that embodies the spirit of the phrase? This unisex Oompa Loompa dungaree jumpsuit, which you'll receive along with a green wig, a shirt and gloves, will keep you covered from head to toe, blocking out any fall chills. The only part that will be uncovered? Your (now bright orange) face. $40 at amazon Amazon Slip on this beverage can costume on over your head and wait for the compliments to roll on in! The best part? This can works well as a group costume, especially because it comes it’s available in five different designs, like “Popsi” and “Mtn Dude.” In other words, this one basically seltz itself. According to shoppers, it may not be ideal for those with petite frames, however. from $37; $28 at amazon Amazon Movie buffs will geek out over this retro look that gives a nod to the cult classic, Ferris Bueller's Day Off. It's officially licensed (read: incredibly accurate to Bueller's own threads), and the faux leather retro jacket lends itself to a night of warmth. He'll have to wear his own white tee and gray trousers (or buy a pair, $34), but we still think it's a fair price for a faux leather jacket and a sweater vest. Shoppers note that it does run small, so you may want to size up. from $60 at amazon Amazon Turn yourself inside out with this full-length skeleton bodysuit. It’s made of a durable polyester and requires little to no explanation, and the arm warmers are included for a little extra heat. Makeup gurus can also make the look their own with a little creative face paint ($10). $33; $30 at amazon Amazon It's been a big year for the Princess of Pop (we're dying to read The Woman in Me, $23), so we're tipping our hats to the singer with this throwback costume from her first-ever music video, “Baby One More Time.” It comes complete with stockings, pink furry hair scrunchies, a pleated skirt (with built-in hot shorts!) and a tied-up blouse: All you need to add is a gray cardi ($29). Better start studying that choreography, stat! $21; $18at amazon Amazon This Spooktacular Creations peanut butter and jelly costume is the perfect choice for you and your beau who prefer the simple things in life—it couldn't be easier to wear. The set comes with two foam tunics and two plush jar accessories to hold in your hands. The sides have a velcro tab, so you can walk separately or be stuck together, and you certainly won't freeze in it—in fact, some reviewers say it actually made them sweat a bit. $53; $35 at amazon Amazon Pam Anderson may have reinvented herself in 2023, but there will still be no mistaking who you're dressed up as in this iconic red suit that emulates the one she famously wore as on Baywatch from 1992 to 1995. Throw in a blonde wig ($27), a whistle ($5), and, for modesty/warmth, a cover up ($27) and you it's baysically Casey Jean "C.J." Parker 2.0. As an added bonus, you'll be totally covered for your next pool party when the weather starts getting warmer again. $24; $20 at amazon Amazon If you've watched Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby together more times than you care to count, it's time to shake and bake to pick up this Wonder Bread costume recalling the great fictional race car driver. Shoppers say the quality on this suit is impeccable, and the hat adjusts for any size noggin. Even the patches are legit! He'll want to be careful when sitting however—this baby wrinkles. $90 at amazon Perhaps unsurprisingly, the most popular Halloween costume for women in 2023 is none other than Barbie, according to HalloweenCostumes.com. The Little Mermaid follows closely behind in second place, with Spider-Gwen and Spider-Woman taking third. Wednesday Addams is in fourth, and video game-related costumes (think: Super Mario Bros. and The Legend of Zelda) snag fifth place. If you need to return your Halloween costume on Amazon, it’s important to note that the process varies based on the seller’s policies. According to Amazon, “While most sellers offer a returns policy equivalent to Amazon's, some seller returns policies may vary.” That said, the mega-retailer states that if the seller fails to list its product's policy or state the return time frame, its "standard 30-day return policy applies.” While Spirit Halloween is one of the largest and most recognizable Halloween store chains (nothing like a day-of try-on at your local seasonal pop-up to really nail the look), Amazon ranks as the largest online retailer in the world, making it a solid contender in the Halloween offering department. If you prefer to shop small (honestly, same), you can still support small businesses that sell through Amazon, since they're identified on the site by a small business badge. We Scared Up 32 of the Best Amazon Halloween Decorations That Will Arrive in a Flash PureWow's editors and writers have spent more than a decade shopping online, digging through sales and putting our home goods, beauty finds, wellness picks and more through the wringer—all to help you determine which are actually worth your hard-earned cash. From our PureWow100 series (where we rank items on a 100-point scale) to our painstakingly curated lists of fashion, beauty, cooking, home and family picks, you can trust that our recommendations have been thoroughly vetted for function, aesthetics and innovation. Whether you're looking for travel-size hair dryers you can take on-the-go or women’s walking shoes that won’t hurt your feet, we’ve got you covered. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.