Strategic human resources executive Claire Eeles has joined Mosaic as the specialty insurer “continues its growth of geographies and talent.” Based in London, Eeles has been appointed Chief People Officer and a member of the company’s leadership team. “We are excited about adding Claire to Mosaic’s leadership team—it’s a strong reflection of Mosaic’s overall expansion and the importance we place on our people agenda,” said Co-CEO Mitch Blaser. “We continually look to add high-quality talent as we move forward on our vision, and Claire’s wealth of industry expertise and deep knowledge of HR, people, and culture will help inform our talent strategies and continue our global culture-building.”  The spokesperson said, “Eeles is a human-resources professional with more than 20 years’ experience in the financial services sector. Her role at Mosaic encompasses overall strategic responsibility for Mosaic’s people, talent, and culture. “She has worked in international roles for several companies, including XL Capital, Brit Insurance, WTW, and AJ Gallagher. Most recently, she was global human resources director for Gallagher Re (previously Willis Re), and, prior, HR director for people and change aspects of an operational improvement program at WTW. She began her career as a consultant at Accenture.” “I am absolutely delighted to be joining Mosaic—it’s an exciting company that clearly has its people and culture at the heart of what it is and does,” said Eeles. “I look forward to being part of this talented team to help further develop a people strategy that supports Mosaic’s business growth plans.” The spokesperson said, “Launched in February 2021, Mosaic currently has 125 employees across seven offices and seven lines of business—including cyber, transactional liability, political risk, political violence, environmental liability, professional liability, and financial institutions.”  #BermudaBusiness #BusinessExecutives Category: All, Business . Archives: Categories: Tags: Bernews