This Baldur's Gate 3 Flower Key guide will showcase the location as well as the quest needed to obtain the Flower Key! Baldur’s Gate 3 allows players to come across a plethora of best items, such as of the Flower Key, which is needed to complete a few important quests. Players might want to know how to obtain the Baldur’s Gate 3 Flower Key. Therefore, a detailed walkthrough might be required!  Baldur’s Gate 3 Flower Key is part of a quest that is called the Open Hand Temple Murders quest. Here is how I solved this murder mystery: From here, you will want to make your way to the basement, and that can be done by heading toward the door at the end of the room where the man is dead.  This is the path I took while heading to the basement: After both the buttons have been pressed, it will unlock a doorway between the two statues, and you want to keep heading forward and then down the hill. From here, there will be a battle that takes place.  After the battle, you want to head to the crime scene, investigate everything that’s going on, and pick up any loot that was present. Amongst the loot, one of the dead bodies will also hold a Scroll of Thunderwave and a Key with a flower motif.  And that’s just about it! All that players need to know about the Baldur’s Gate 3 Flower Key, and with that, let’s wrap up my guide! While you’re here, why not read up on Baldur’s Gate 3 Max Level guide, which will detail the max level! Apart from this, the Baldur’s Gate 3 Halsin guide will tell you everything you need to know about Halsin! Alongside that, the Baldur’s Gate 3 All Feats New Old guide is a worthwhile read! Lastly, make sure not to miss out on the Baldur’s Gate 3 Best Level 1 Spells guide! Up Next:  Photo Credits: Wowquests on Youtube Thanks! Do share your feedback with us. ⚡ How can we make this post better? Your help would be appreciated. ✍ Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           Experience: 5+ years || Previously Worked At Gamepur, Gear Siege, GearNuke Enjoyed this article? Discuss the latest gaming news, get expert help with guides and errors, and chat about all things gaming on eXputer Forums and Discord Server. Connect with fellow gamers who share your passion by becoming a part of eXputer's community. 
					 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           
					These are challenging times for video game journalism, and we need your support. If eXputer has been part of your gaming journey, please consider becoming a Patreon member. Your contribution will help us continue delivering the content you love and keep our independent voice alive. Thank you for standing with us.
				 
	eXputer is a leading gaming-focused news and media website catering to a diverse readership across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC regions. Specializing in gaming news, guides, tier lists, game settings, and error fixes, eXputer also conducts interviews and offers exclusives, features, and leaks. Additionally, eXputer provides gaming tools such as a game recommendation engine, all built for gamers by gamers.
 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           © 2024 eXputer®. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. eXputer® is part of REDLUMB LLC FZ.