 Queen Camilla has created an impressive jewellery collection for herself full of Van Cleef & Arpels pieces from several Magic Alhambra collections. Speaking about the collection’s iconic design, the brand said: “Created in 2006 by Van Cleef & Arpels, the Magic Alhambra® jewellery creations gather different-sized Alhambra motifs, coming together in a joyful dance. “Inspired by the clover leaf, their asymmetric designs feature different associations of materials.” Amongst several necklaces, earrings and brooches, the monarch is a huge fan of her blue agate Magic Alhambra bracelet which she wears every day, amongst other gold bracelets on her right wrist. The bracelet features five motifs in a bright blue, set in 18k yellow gold on a chain, and it is priced at £4,500.  The Queen also owns a matching set of earrings and a necklace from the Magic Alhambra motif collection in Malachite. Malachite is an “important protection stone” in a beautiful bold shade of green. It is said to “absorb negative energies” and “opens the heart to unconditional love”. The Malachite design was reintroduced by the brand in 2013, and the collection consisted of updated pieces using motifs of different sizes from the Vintage Alhambra collection (which uses motifs of the same size). Camilla's necklace is the Magic Alhambra long necklace, with 16 motifs in 18k yellow gold and Malachite, and is priced at £26,700. She wore it in May 2016 for two events, and wrapped the necklace twice around her neck to make it shorter, rather than wearing it long.   The monarch also chose to wear the matching clip-on malachite earrings featuring three motifs each, which are priced at £9,450. Camilla also owns the same earrings in white gold and diamond which cost a whopping £46,900. She wore these earrings most recently in October 2022 for the Booker Price Awards. While Camilla’s Van Cleef and Arpel’s jewels are a staple in her wardrobe, Kate, Princess of Wales, on the other hand, only owns two pieces from the brand and has rarely worn them. Kate’s pieces are much more subdued, made from yellow gold and mother-of-pearl, compared to the bright colours Camilla favours. Mother-of-pearl is a protective stone and is said to “bring the gently healing power of the sea”. According to Charms of Light, it is a “stress relieving stone; relaxing, soothing and calming to the emotions”, thus helping emotions “become more harmonious and balanced”. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy   Don't miss...     ‘Gentle’ Sophie helped Prince Edward ‘become comfortable’ in royal role - claim  [RELATIONSHIP]     Princess Anne wears gloves for royal engagements for practical reason  [COMMENT]     Kate and William like to coordinate to look ‘conservative and traditional'  [INSIDER]  The earrings and necklace are matching and from the same Magic Alhambra motif collection as Camilla’s pieces above. Her earrings feature two mother-of-pearl quatrefoil motifs set in yellow gold beads and are priced at £5,400. The necklace feature six mother-of-pearl quatrefoil motifs set in yellow gold beads, and is priced at £7,850. Kate doesn’t wear these pieces regularly, in fact, she debuted them in 2020 for BAFTA, then again during her and Prince William’s Caribbean tour, and most recently this year for the King’s Coronation concert at Windsor Castle. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?