By Chloe Louise    Published:  06:15 EDT, 25 March 2023   |  Updated:  07:02 EDT, 25 March 2023      2 View  comments  Kim Jong-Un's daughter wore a £2,300 Christian Dior jacket to watch an intercontinental missile launch with her father in North Korea.  Photographs show Kim Jong Un watching the Hwasong-17 launch with his daughter, Kim Ju Ae, who was wearing a black, waterproof, velvet hooded down jacket.  The flared Christian Dior piece featured its iconic Cannage motif and is filled with down and feathers.  A South Korean broadcaster, Chosun’s Noh Suk-jo, noted the unique square and rhomboid embroidery and revealed it was sold by the French luxury fashion house.  The missile was fired on March, 16, amid 'provocative and aggressive' joint military drills conducted by the United States and South Korea, state new agency said Friday. Photographs show Kim Jong Un watching the Hwasong-17 launch with his daughter, Kim Ju Ae, who was wearing a £2,300 Christian Dior jacket The piece featured its iconic Cannage motif and is filled with down and feathers Fact-box text It was North Korea's third show of force since Sunday and took place as South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol headed to Tokyo for a summit with Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. The summit's goal is to boost ties in the face of Pyongyang's growing aggression. South Korean lawmaker Thae Yong-ho, who was once a high-ranking North Korean diplomat, previously claimed the leader's daughter will never rule North Korea because her father is losing his power as even his inner circle no longer trusts him. Thae said in an Interview with Radio Free Asia: 'I think the North Korean regime will never make it to the fourth generation with Kim Ju Ae. 'Since Kim Jong Un came to power, the North Korean regime has gone too far in a very unstable and abnormal direction over the past decade.' He also doubted that Kim Jong Un will actually pass his position on to his daughter and not a son but reiterated that the North Korean dictator was building this image of a power succession over four generations whenever he can. Kim Ju Ae, who is thought to be nine years old, is one of Kim's three known children- a son and two daughters born in 2010, 2013 and 2017, according to South Korean intelligence. A South Korean broadcaster, Chosun’s Noh Suk-jo, noted the unique square and rhomboid embroidery and revealed it was sold by the French luxury fashion house Fact-box text She is commonly known in North Korean press as 'Kim's most beloved daughter'- they have also described the child as precious and noble. This was recently upgraded to ‘respected daughter’- an adjective normally reserved for Supreme Leaders and their spouses.  Her name has not been officially released by North Korean press but was in fact leaked by former American basketball star Dennis Rodman. Rodman, who has struck up a bizarre friendship with the basketball-loving Kim, revealed that he had met the girl as a baby during a visit to the communist state in 2013 — and had even been allowed to hold her. While it is speculated that his daughter maybe in line to take the dictator's place through hereditary transition no woman has ever ruled a communist state. Kim seldom appears in public with his children, so experts believe it’s highly significant that Ju-ae has now joined him at events no fewer than five times in the past four months.  She was first in the spotlight last November, wearing a white puffer jacket, red ballet pumps and a ponytail, and clutching Kim’s hand as they visited a rocket-launching site. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group