
  A VAN driver has denied killing a champion triathlete by dangerous driving after the 52-year-old died while riding her bike. 
 
  Mother-of-two Rebecca Comins from Caldicot was involved in a crash with Vasile Barbu's Vauxhall Movano van while cycling on the A40 near Raglan.
 
  The Romanian-born 48-year-old defendant, of of Old Hereford Road, Abergavenny will stand trial on April 29 next year after he pleaded not guilty at Cardiff Crown Court.
 
  Ms Comins was cycling when she was involved in the collision at around 7.20pm on Thursday, June 2, 2022.
 
  Following her death her family released a tribute to her.
 
  “Our beautiful Rebecca was taken from us on Thursday, June 2, doing something she loved," they said.
 
  “She was a caring and loving wife to Stephen and an amazing mum to both George and Millie.
 

 
Rebecca Comins. Picture: Wales News Service
 
  “We ask people to respect our privacy at this sad time and allow us to grieve as a family.”
 
  Ms Comins was a popular triathlete and a multiple Ironman Wales finisher.
 
  She was a member of Dragon Tri Club, Newport Phoenix Cycling Club and Caldicot Running Club and represented the Great Britain Age Group Team at the European Championships in Tartu, Estonia in 2018, as well as at the World Championships in Lausanne, Switzerland in 2019.
 
  In a tribute posted online Welsh Triathlon said she was a "fantastic ambassador for our sport".
 
  "Becky was a fierce competitor, but with it had a positivity and energy that was infectious," they added.
 
  "She loved the sport, she loved the training and Becky was central to any social activities across her clubs.
 
  “Becky will be sadly missed by everyone within our triathlon community and we extend our deepest sympathies to Becky’s family, Steve, George and Millie and her wider friends at this sad time."
 
  Caldicot RFC also paid tribute to Ms Comins who worked with the club.
 
  "The committee, players and members of Caldicot RFC are saddened to hear of the tragic loss of Rebecca Comins," the club said.
 
  "Becky made a huge contribution to the club as our first team sports masseur and first aider.
 
  “Our condolences and best wishes are extended to Steve, George, Millie and family."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.