If you have been scammed by online reviews on websites like Amazon.com Inc. AMZN, Best Buy Co Inc. BBY, or Walmart Inc. WMT, Mozilla Firefox is here to save you. What Happened: Firefox will soon come with a built-in fake reviews detector that works on popular e-commerce websites. See Also: Activision Boss Bobby Kotick Thinks Video Games Over Elon Musk’s Neuralink Will One Day Become A Reality Mozilla is gearing up to add the fake reviews detector feature to Firefox in an upcoming update, according to the release notes posted by the open-source web browser maker. According to the notes, review checker is "a powerful feature that enables you to know whether reviews are reliable when you shop online with Amazon.com, BestBuy.com, and Walmart.com." The feature is enabled by an add-on called Fakespot. In fact, it is not restricted to just these websites – it works on eBay, Yelp, TripAdvisor, and more, using an A-to-F rating scale. "It uses a sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) system to detect patterns and similarities between reviews in order to flag those that are most likely to be deceptive," said Mozilla, explaining how the fake review detector works. Instead of relying on the Amazon rating for any given product, Fakespot adjusts the rating based on its own findings. This adjusted rating is displayed on the product page. Apart from this, the seller also gets a label based on their reliability, so you can avoid the dodgy ones. Why It Matters: The Firefox fake review detection feature is enabled by Fakespot, which Mozilla acquired in May this year. This comes at a time when there is a rise in the use of AI technologies like ChatGPT and others to flood websites with fake content. For instance, a CNBC story found tell-tale signs of AI-written reviews for products. Reviews were found starting with the text "As an AI language model..", showing that the users who published these reviews used ChatGPT instead of writing it themselves. Check out more of Benzinga’s Consumer Tech coverage by following this link. Read Next: ‘Self-Healing’ Smartphone Displays: Analysts Expect It To Become A Reality Within Five Years Photo by Evan Lorne on Shutterstock © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.