My day job is as a creative director and writer, but my "delicious job" is as a barbecue pitmaster and competition cook.  In Buffalo, New York, I take advantage of the beautiful spring and summer weather by grilling and smoking food as much as possible. During the fall and winter, it's all about tailgate season.  I love picking up my ingredients and supplies at Costco because the quality of proteins and products is usually fantastic. Plus I can also stock up on things that'll last for months.  Here are 13 of my Costco essentials when it comes to barbecuing.  In my experience, Costco is also one of the only places to find the highest quality briquettes at such a low price. Typically, I pick up a 36-pound package of Kingsford charcoal.  This brand is my favorite for searing because the briquettes burn extremely hot and clean. I use these when cooking steaks, burgers, and even hot dogs.  Folding tables are essential and extremely useful when it comes to barbecuing and food prep. I always have two or three of these up on my patio — one for prep, one for tools, and the last for plating.  Because the tables fold up compactly, they also fit into a car or truck for easy transport.  Instead of fighting the sun or wet weather while I barbecue, I always have at least one or two tents up. Tents also keep food from sitting in the sun or getting rained (or snowed) on.  When you season up and put a rack of ribs on the smoker on the first nice day of the year, you know it's officially barbecue season. These Swift backribs come in packs of three, which fit perfectly on my smoker. I cook mine to where you can get a perfect clean bite that comes off the bone without all of the meat falling off with it.  I'm always looking for something new to cook, like a rack of lamb. I like making a rub with a few herbs, searing the rack, and then cooking it to a perfect medium. I finish the meat at an internal temperature of around 125 degrees Fahrenheit. And, in my opinion, if you don't think you like lamb, it's probably because it was overcooked.  Coolers are a must for any barbecuer — and they do more than just keeping meat and beverages cold. When I cook something that finishes early, like a brisket or pork shoulder, I wrap the meat to rest in foil, wrap that with a towel, then place it in a cooler. This way, the meat holds its temperature for a few hours so I can pull it out when everyone's ready.    Folding wagons are such a great help especially if you're cooking at a park or location that's not your home base. I'll fill it with things like ingredients and utensils to roll from parking lot to barbecue spot.  Of course, we can't forget the actual grill or smoker. I'm a charcoal cooker, but some of my barbecue buds love cooking on pellet, propane, and electric smokers. In my opinion, though, just choose whichever cooker helps you get the job done right.    I'm big on food safety, so I always have boxes of nitrile gloves handy for handling food.  I choose nitrile because they're durable, can stretch, and never have a powdery substance or aroma that can transfer to food. It's amazing how much foil I go through cooking outdoors. First off, I use it to overcome the stall — when you're smoking a large piece of meat and the internal temperature of it stops rising or goes down — on big cuts of meat. Wrapping the meat with foil can help.  I also use foil to cover raw meat, pack in flavor, and dish out leftovers. Of course, with meat, we also have side dishes. Instead of leaving the sides out unprotected I like to use Stretch-Tite to cover bowls and serving dishes. Plus, this wrap can help make cleaning up easy.   It gets hot when you're standing by the grill or smoker all day. These big packs of water keep me hydrated.    Sometimes it takes an hour or two to finish cooking, so I make sure to have something fun for everyone to do while we wait. Yard games, like cornhole, are a safe bet — and Costco usually has a decent selection. Click to keep reading Costco diaries like this one. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to