Showbiz Sign up to our free weekly newsletter for exclusive competitions, offers and theatre ticket deals  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. Eddie Murphy made reference to Will Smith’s infamous slap at the 2022 Oscars, as he accepted a top award at the Golden Globes. The actor and comedian was presented with the coveted Cecil B DeMille award at the Golden Globes by fellow comedian Tracy Morgan and Jamie Lee Curtis on Tuesday. Murphy is known for starring in well known films including Trading Places, Beverly Hills Cop, Coming To America, The Nutty Professor and the Shrek franchise, among many others. He is a six-time Golden Globe nominee and won the best supporting actor in a motion picture award in 2007 for his performance in Dreamgirls. Accepting the award, Murphy said: “I’ve been doing this for a long time, so I can literally stand up here and keep saying thank you until they play the piano. “But I’m gonna wrap it up and just say something to all the new up and coming dreamers and artists that are in the room tonight. “I want to let you know that there is a definitive blueprint that you can follow to achieve success, prosperity, longevity, and peace of mind. “There’s a blueprint and I followed it my whole career, it’s very simple. “There’s three things… just do these three things: Pay your taxes. Mind your business, and keep Will Smith’s wife’s name out of your f****** mouth!” Last year Smith stormed the stage and slapped Chris Rock after the comedian made a joke about his wife, Jada Pinkett Smith, and her hair cut – not realising it was a result of the medical condition, alopecia. Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs Champions League Draw: Date, start time, teams, fixtures and new format for 2024/25 season Make your next trip to the West End a celebration of women in culture Returning to his seat after the altercation, Smith had shouted, “keep my wife’s name out of your f****** mouth!” Smith later apologised to Rock for the outburst, but was banned from all Academy events for the next 10 years. The Cecil B DeMille award is presented to a talented individual for their outstanding contributions to the world of entertainment. Murphy joins past recipients of the award including Jane Fonda, George Clooney, Morgan Freeman, Oprah Winfrey, Robert De Niro, Audrey Hepburn, Harrison Ford, Jodie Foster, Sophia Loren, Steven Spielberg, Denzel Washington, Robin Williams, Tom Hanks and more. Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Champions League Draw: Date, start time, teams, fixtures and new format for 2024/25 season 3 Football Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs 4 London London travel news LIVE: Train disruption amid police incident between Wimbledon and Surbiton 5 Politics Keir Starmer suffers post-election poll drop as 52% say UK ‘moving in wrong direction’