Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate mortgages to write unbiased product reviews. Mutual of Omaha Mortgage is an affordable mortgage lender that customers rate very highly in online reviews. If you're looking for a lender with flexible credit score requirements or you're trying to get a mortgage following a bankruptcy, Mutual of Omaha may be a good choice for you. But it lacks transparency when it comes to details around the loans and rates it offers.  N/A 3% Conventional, FHA, VA, USDA, jumbo, reverse It lends in 48 states and Washington, DC. It's not available in New York or West Virginia. Mutual of Omaha Mortgage offers the following types of mortgages: Mutual of Omaha doesn't set a minimum required credit score for its conventional mortgages, so those with lower scores may like this lender. However, a spokesperson for Mutual of Omaha Mortgage noted that those with scores above 600 are generally more likely to get approved than those with sub-600 scores. In our review of the latest Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data, we found that Mutual of Omaha's average mortgage rates were slightly high compared to other lenders.  To see this lender's current mortgage rates, you'll need to apply for preapproval or talk to a loan officer. In 2022, the average borrower getting a conventional mortgage from this lender paid $4,169 in origination charges, according to HMDA data. This is around average compared to other lenders. Mutual of Omaha's mortgage lineup should meet most borrowers' needs, but other than reverse mortgages, its offerings are fairly basic. Mutual of Omaha is a good mortgage lender if you have a lower credit score, since it has government-backed mortgage options for borrowers with scores down to 550. You may also be able to get a mortgage from this lender even if you have a recent negative event on your credit report, such as a bankruptcy. But its average rates are on the high end.  This lender also has many positive online customer reviews. On its Zillow lender page, it has a 4.9 out of 5-star rating, based on over 1,000 customer reviews. On TrustPilot, it has 4.4 out of 5 stars, based on over 800 customer reviews. Mutual of Omaha Mortgage has an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau. A strong BBB grade indicates a company advertises honestly, responds effectively to customer complaints, and is transparent about business practices. No minimum credit score requirement for conventional mortgages Government-backed mortgage borrowers may be able to qualify with scores as low as 550 Borrowers with recent bankruptcies may still qualify with this lender Has many positive online customer reviews If you have a lower credit score or a recent bankruptcy, you might still qualify for a mortgage with Mutual of Omaha. The lender says it doesn't set a minimum credit score for its conventional loans, so if you have a lower score but an overall strong financial profile (like a low debt-to-income ratio and a large down payment), you could still get approved for a loan.  It also accepts scores down to 550 on some of its government-backed loan options. Most lenders provide at least basic information around the mortgages they offer and their minimum credit requirements, but we had to reach out to Mutual of Omaha to confirm the types of loans it has, since they're not listed online. This can make it harder to get a sense of whether this lender is right for you without having to apply for preapproval.  You also can't explore sample or customized rates online with this lender, making it difficult to get a sense of what you might pay. Business Insider looked at positive and negative customer reviews, online forums, BBB complaints, and other sources to understand what borrowers think about Mutual of Omaha's mortgage process. In reviews and comments online, previous Mutual of Omaha borrowers said their experience was smooth and that they were able to get through the process quickly. Many also noted that the loan officers they worked with were communicative and helpful.  We didn't see any negative reviews that suggested a larger issue with the lender.  Like Mutual of Omaha Mortgage, Rocket Mortgage is a good choice if a positive customer service experience is important to you. In J.D. Power's 2023 US Mortgage Origination Satisfaction Study, Rocket Mortgage earned the No. 2 spot in customer satisfaction. It's also one of the best mortgage refinance lenders in the country. However, Mutual of Omaha Mortgage has some benefits that Rocket Mortgage doesn't. This includes a minimum credit score of 550 on some of its government-backed mortgages, and the ability to get a mortgage if you have a recent bankruptcy. You'll also need a 620 credit score to get a conventional mortgage with Rocket, while those with lower scores may still qualify with Mutual of Omaha. Rocket Mortgage Review Both Chase and Mutual of Omaha Mortgage are good options for borrowers looking for affordability. Which one is right for you depends on your needs. Chase is one of the best mortgage lenders for first-time buyers. It's also a good choice for low-income borrowers, thanks to its DreaMaker mortgage. This mortgage is for borrowers who meet income limits, and it allows a 3% down payment with lower-cost private mortgage insurance. It also can be combined with Chase's Homebuyer Grant to get up to $7,500 in down payment or closing cost assistance.  But if you have a lower credit score or a recent negative event on your credit report, Mutual of Omaha may be a better fit. Chase Mortgage Review Mutual of Omaha Mortgage is a legitimate mortgage lender that's a part of the Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company. It has an A+ rating from the BBB and many positive online customer reviews. For conventional loans, Mutual of Omaha mortgage doesn't set a minimum credit score requirement, though you should aim to have a score above 600 to increase your approval odds. Some of its government-backed loans allow credit scores as low as 550. Yes, Mutual of Omaha Mortgage is a direct lender. This means you'll work directly with a loan officer from Mutual of Omaha to get your mortgage, rather than working with them through a mortgage broker. Mutual of Omaha Mortgage lends in all U.S. states except New York and West Virginia. In 2022, it originated more than 17,000 mortgages, according to Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data. Mutual of Omaha's mortgage rates are slightly higher than average, according to our review of HMDA data.  Mutual of Omaha is known for offering high quality customer service, as shown in the many positive customer reviews that exist online. You might like Mutual of Omaha's mortgage app, which lets you easily upload documents and check your loan status.  To review Mutual of Omaha Mortgage, we used our methodology for reviewing mortgage lenders. We look at four factors — loan types, affordability, customer satisfaction, and trustworthiness — and give each a rating between 1 and 5, then average these individual ratings for the overall lender rating. Lenders get higher ratings if they offer a high number of loan types with affordable features, have positive customer reviews, and don't have any recent public controversies. Jump to