Try your hand at some seasonal baking with this recipe that takes less than 30 minutes to bake. Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters The chillier, darker nights mean that many of us will be finding any excuse not to go outside, and instead settling on the sofa with a warm drink and snacks at the ready.  Nothing goes with a cup of tea quite like a good slice of cake, and Mary Berry's "delicious" coffee and walnut cake is sure to bring you a bit of joy on a dreary and dark evening.  The "great little treat" takes less than 30 minutes to bake, and also requires simple ingredients that you may already have in the cupboards.  The Express reports that Mary Berry has shared her recipe with both the BBC and Hello Magazine. She said: "Coffee and walnuts go particularly well together, but you can use other nuts for this recipe if you prefer." For the cake: For the filling and topping: Kitchen equipment: 1. Preheat the oven to 180C for a fan oven, 160C for a gas oven. Lightly butter two sandwich cake tins and then line with greaseproof paper. 2. Place the flour, sugar, eggs, baking powder and coffee in a mixing bowl and stir until the mixture is smooth, then fold the walnuts into the mixture. 3. Divide the mixture between the two cake tins, smoothing the top down with a spoon, then bake for around 15-20 minutes.  4. When it's ready take the cake out of the oven and allow it to cool completely in the cake tins for around five minutes. Then take a knife around the edges of the tin in order to lift the cake off completely. Peel off the parchment paper and make sure the cake is cool before applying any icing. 5. Make the filling and topping icing. Beat butter in a bowl and slowly add in the icing sugar. Once the mixture is smooth add the coffee and stir well.  6. Place the icing on your bottom cake for the filling and then sandwich the cakes together. Spread the remaining icing on top and then add walnut pieces for decoration, and serve.  Get the latest news sent straight to your messages by joining our WhatsApp community today. You'll receive daily updates on breaking news as well as the top headlines across Scotland. No one will be able to see who is signed up and no one can send messages except the Daily Record team. All you have to do is click here if you're on mobile, select 'Join Community' and you're in! If you're on a desktop, simply scan the QR code above with your phone and click 'Join Community'. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose 'exit group'. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletter here. 