 Tracy Conelly was released from prison and is now trying to contact her grown-up children for a "Christmas reunion" but "no one wants to know", sources claim. Connelly was jailed in 2009 for causing or allowing the death of her 17-month-old son Peter in Tottenham, north London, in August 2007. Baby P suffered 50 injuries at the hands of Connelly, stepdad Steven Barker and Barker's brother Jason Owen.  Over an eight-month period, Baby P’s injuries included a broken back, broken ribs, gashes to the head, a fractured shinbone, a ripped ear, mutilated fingertips, skin torn from the nose and mouth, cuts on the neck and a tooth knocked out. Sources told the Daily Star that Connelly is now trying "build bridges" with her two grown-up daughters who were taken into foster care in 2009. But they have reportedly refused her invitation to "spend Christmas as a family".  A source reportedly said: “Tracey is a manipulative person and always had it in her head her children would forgive her. “She thought she could get out of prison and talk them around and convince them that she is a changed person, but they don’t want to know. Tracey was looked after in prison. She was seen as a notorious criminal and looked after, because there were so many people that wanted to do her harm for what she did to that poor baby. “But now she is out fending for herself, and no one wants to know. The killer mum was released in July this year after the Parole Board ruled she was fit to be back in the public." READ MORE: Police issue first picture of mum, 33, who died after concert crush We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Connelly's release was the fourth bid for parole following attempts in 2015, 2017, and 2019 which were refused. The Parole Board said it was satisfied Connelly is suitable for release after hearing she is now considered to be at “low risk of committing a further offence” and that her probation officers and prison officials support the plan. Dominic Rabb, who was justice secretary at the time of Connelly's release said: "Tracey Connelly’s cruelty was pure evil, which is why I strongly opposed her release. “The decision to let her out demonstrates why the Parole Board needs a fundamental overhaul, including a ministerial block, to protect the public and keep dangerous offenders off our streets.” SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?