Hydrogen Fuel News 
Hydrogen News – Green Hydrogen Report  Leading autonomous blended-wing body (BWB) cargo aircraft designer and developer Natilus and leading zero-emission commercial aviation developer ZeroAvia have announced a strategic hydrogen plane engine development. The ZeroAvia ZA600 will be the single hydrogen plane propulsion source available in the new Kona short-haul feeder USV. This partnership’s goal is primarily to offer zero-emission operations at a lower cost. The uniquely designed BWB Natilus Kona provides added volume for the H2 storage with the potential to shake up the cargo delivery industry to an aircraft with low-carbon emissions at a low cost. At the same time, this model also makes it possible to lengthen flight range. Through this ZeroAvia and Natilus partnership, the companies will leverage the former company’s H2-electric powertrain expertise in combination with the latter’s uniquely scalable long-range design for zero-emission air cargo delivery. This involved testing a quarter-scale version of the prototype aircraft after three years of lengthy wind-tunnel tests. At the same time, ZeroAvia has conducted eight flight tests of its ZA600 prototype, a 600kW engine, tested in a 19-seat testbed aircraft. Credit: Photo by Natilus “Natilus has a long-term commitment to being a responsible steward of our environment, instituting practices that can protect the environment through continual improvements to save fuel and water, reduce waste, air emissions, noise, and material consumption,” said Natilus CEO and co-founder Aleksey Matyushev. “The Natilus-ZeroAvia partnership goes further, bringing the talents and innovations of the two companies together to deliver much needed innovation in the air cargo delivery industry and multiple solutions for our customers.” “Given Natilus’ impressive order book and corresponding technology development, working
together on integrating the ZA600 as a line-fit engine for Kona can multiply the emissions and costs benefits that are already interesting cargo operators,” added ZeroAvia CEO and founder Val Miftakhov in a statement about the hydrogen plane partnership. “We all depend on air cargo operators, and some communities depend on them absolutely, so improving the economics and
environmental impacts of these operations while increasing service levels is a massive opportunity.”  Ready to test your knowledge on the most abundant element in the universe? Take our fun and engaging Hydrogen Quiz now! [forminator_quiz id=”58712″] 
Frankie Wallace is a freelance writer from the Pacific Northwest. She enjoys writing about technology, sustainability, and education. Frankie spends her free time cultivating her zero waste garden or off hiking in the mountains of the PNW with her loved ones.  Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  


Sign up to our newsletter! 
 Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. With over 15 years of reporting hydrogen news, we are your premier source for the latest updates and insights in hydrogen and renewable energy.