Enjoy higher framerates with these games 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Both the PS5 and the Xbox Series X and Series S are taking advantage of 120fps support to help make players get the most out of their consoles, allowing them to enjoy some of the best titles on the system at an incredibly high performance. 120fps support used to be exclusively reserved for PC gamers with powerful enough hardware. However, PS5, Xbox Series X, and Xbox Series S owners with a 120Hz, HDMI 2.1 compatible display can hit the lofty heights of 4K and 120fps, though it's usually one or the other on consoles. Those who have 120Hz, HDMI 2.0 displays can also take advantage of 120fps, but only at 1080p (and sometimes 1440p). So which PS5 and Xbox Series X games offer 120fps support? And does the Xbox Series S also benefit? We’ve rounded up all the games below in an easy-to-read format so you can see which games take advantage of higher framerates on either system. We’ll also be updating this list in the future as more games receive 120fps support.  Does having a higher framerate really matter? Put simply, yes, but right now it’s a luxury for many. 120fps support is a huge plus in competitive games, where a split-second action can make all the difference. Running games at a higher framerate makes games look incredibly smooth in motion, helping to offset motion sickness and make games generally look cleaner.  But it’s also a graphically intensive feature, hence why it isn’t supported by every game out there. It simply wasn’t possible on the last-gen consoles like the PS4 and Xbox One families.  While it’s always hard to showcase the benefits of 120fps fully without experiencing it for yourself, the video below shows Ori and the Will of the Wisps running at 60fps and 120fps. The difference between the two is stark, even though 60fps is still considered to be the sweet spot for framerates. Ori appears as though it’s more stop-start at 60fps, while at 120fps it’s noticeably more fluid in motion  It’s easy to get the two confused, but it’s important to know the difference between them. Hertz (Hz) refers to the number of times your display refreshes per second. Most TVs are limited to 60Hz, but you may have seen some monitors that support 144Hz and even 360Hz. If your TV only has a 60Hz refresh rate, you won’t be able to play at 120fps, the maximum refreshes per second it can achieve is 60. For 120fps, you’d need a 120Hz capable display. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Frames per second (fps) is the number of individual images generated by a console or a PC. Developers often lock framerate to a set figure: either 30, 60 or 120, to provide a steady and consistent experience. If you’ve ever played an unlocked 30fps game, it’s often extremely unpleasant, as the game wildly fluctuate between different framerate values. That leads to a choppy, inconsistent experience.  The main takeaway is this: if a display is capable of 120Hz, then it can run games at 120fps on PS5 and Xbox Series X/S, providing it has a HDMI 2.0 or HDMI 2.1 port. Again, a HDMI 2.1 or 2.0 connection will affect what resolutions you are able to run at when hitting 120fps.  While the PS5 doesn’t include 120fps support for quite as many games as Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S, its library of titles is growing slowly. Check out all the PS5 games with 120fps support below.   The Xbox Series X has far more games with 120fps support compared to PS5. Microsoft’s backwards compatibility feature, FPS Boost, helps by increasing the framerate of older Xbox One games. Check out all the Xbox Series X games with 120fps support below.   The Xbox Series S is fully capable of hitting 120fps, but not every game that hits 120 frames per second on Xbox Series X is doable on Microsoft’s cheaper Xbox. Still, there are plenty of games to choose from if you’re searching for 120fps games, and far more titles available than what you'll currently find on PS5.  Check out all the Xbox Series S games with 120fps support below. Interested in playing at 120fps on PS5 or Xbox Series X, then? Check out the best 120Hz 4K TVs for Xbox Series X and PS5. These TVs will let you take full advantage of all the next-gen consoles' new features, and hit the silky-smooth heights of 120fps. Adam was formerly TRG's Hardware Editor. A law graduate with an exceptional track record in content creation and online engagement, Adam has penned scintillating copy for various technology sites and also established his very own award-nominated video games website. He’s previously worked at Nintendo of Europe as a Content Marketing Editor and once played Halo 5: Guardians for over 51 hours for charity. He is now an editor at The Shortcut. Dragon Age: The Veilguard's release date trailer finally gives us our first look at them dragons Until Dawn remake gets an October release date Wear OS watches including the Pixel Watch 3 are now getting offline Google Maps TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 