Habanero has released its latest slot called Legendary beasts, a fiery slot featuring mystical characters.  Premium slots and table games provider, Habanero, has released its latest title, Legendary Beasts, a fiery slot featuring mystical characters.
Played across 3x3 reels, the new slot adds a twist to the classic gameboard with splitting symbols, which can divide into two or four parts, creating additional ways for players to win.
Adding to the atmosphere are the game’s symbols comprised of animated dragons, tigers, and phoenixes as well as magical coins, in keeping with the Oriental theme.
The multiplier reel is present throughout and helps to boost wins, landing on a multiplier for each spin of up to 9x, raising the stakes on the mythical game for slot enthusiasts, providing 1,728 ways to win.
Habanero’s latest addition to its pristine portfolio follows the release of captivating titles such as the St. Patricks Day themed-slot Rainbow Mania and the Chinese-legend-inspired Dragon tiger gate.
Commenting on the release, Toni Karapetrov, head of corporate communications at Habanero, said: “Our latest slot sees us unleash mythical beasts that we are confident will immerse players in the Far East backdrop.
“The inclusion of the splitting symbols shakes up the traditional game board and adds an extra element of thrills to keep slot fans entertained.”
Following an extraordinary 2022, where the company signed deals with the likes of Betsson and Snaitech, Habanero has reinforced its position as a leading tier-one supplier with the consistent delivery of immersive content, with Legendary beasts primed to be another fan-favourite. Premium slots and table games provider, Habanero, has released its latest title, Legendary Beasts, a fiery slot featuring mystical characters. Played across 3x3 reels, the new slot adds a twist to the classic gameboard with splitting symbols, which can divide into two or four parts, creating additional ways for players to win. Adding to the atmosphere are the game’s symbols comprised of animated dragons, tigers, and phoenixes as well as magical coins, in keeping with the Oriental theme. The multiplier reel is present throughout and helps to boost wins, landing on a multiplier for each spin of up to 9x, raising the stakes on the mythical game for slot enthusiasts, providing 1,728 ways to win. Habanero’s latest addition to its pristine portfolio follows the release of captivating titles such as the St. Patricks Day themed-slot Rainbow Mania and the Chinese-legend-inspired Dragon tiger gate. Commenting on the release, Toni Karapetrov, head of corporate communications at Habanero, said: “Our latest slot sees us unleash mythical beasts that we are confident will immerse players in the Far East backdrop. “The inclusion of the splitting symbols shakes up the traditional game board and adds an extra element of thrills to keep slot fans entertained.” Following an extraordinary 2022, where the company signed deals with the likes of Betsson and Snaitech, Habanero has reinforced its position as a leading tier-one supplier with the consistent delivery of immersive content, with Legendary beasts primed to be another fan-favourite. CORSO C.TACITO 101 - Terni (TR) - 05100
P.I./C.F. 01419700552
www.gnmedia.it - info@gnmedia.it - credits
 