WFTV Now  Mexicans Celebrate the 112th Anniversary of the Mexican Revolution MEXICO CITY, MEXICO - NOVEMBER 20: Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador President of Mexico gestures during the parade to celebrate the 'Mexicans Celebrate the 112th Anniversary of the Mexican Revolution' at Zocalo on November 20, 2022 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Manuel Velasquez/Getty Images/Getty Images) The president of Mexico shared a photo to social media over the weekend that he claims contains the image of an elf-like creature, according to The Associated Press. >> Read more trending news President Andrés Manuel López Obrador posted a photo that he claimed showed an “alux” from ancient folklore. The grainy photo shows what looks like a creature in a tree. The image seems to show a light halo of hair and two bright white eyes. It appears to be looking at the camera. In the post, Lopez Obrador said the creature resembled a sculpture from an archaeological site on the Yucatan peninsula. “It appears to be an alux,” the president wrote. “Everything is mystical.” Les comparto dos fotos de nuestra supervisión a las obras del Tren Maya: una, tomada por un ingeniero hace tres días, al parecer de un aluxe; otra, de Diego Prieto de una espléndida escultura prehispánica en Ek Balam. Todo es místico. pic.twitter.com/Tr5OP2EqmU According to traditional Mayan belief, aluxes are small and resemble miniature traditionally dressed Maya people. They are generally invisible, the legend says, but can assume physical form to communicate with or frighten people. Lopez Obrador said the photo was taken three days before he posted it by an engineer on a construction site. He said the photo had been taken three days earlier by an engineer on the construction site of a new railway line known as the Tren Maya, which will connect tourist destinations, including ancient Mayan sites. Several people challenged the photo, saying it had been circulating on social media for at least two years. © 2024 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. 