Business Since its founding, Gravie has secured $327 million from venture and equity investors. By Nick Williams A Minneapolis provider of health benefit plans has secured more capital from investors to expand its insurance coverage in the U.S. Gravie, also one of the largest venture-backed companies in Minnesota, recently announced $179 million in new growth equity funding. The decade-old company will apply that to multiple areas of the business, including its online marketplace where employers choose health plans, and Gravie's own health benefits plan called Comfort, which launched in 2018. General Atlantic, a New York-based equity firm with $72 billion in assets under management, and follow-on capital from existing investors — FirstMark Capital and AXA Venture Partners — led the late-stage funding round. Since its founding, Gravie has secured $327 million from venture and equity investors. The latest investment should close within 30 days, subject to regulatory approval, according to a joint release from Gravie and General Atlantic. A year ago this month, Gravie closed on $75 million for its Series E round of funding. At the time, the company had around 525 employers across the nation using Gravie for both its marketplace and Comfort products. The plan was to use the Series E to expand access to its digital marketplace. Gravie now boasts more than 1,500 company customers nationwide. "We are on a journey to help improve health benefits for businesses and their employees, and we are just getting started," Abir Sen, Gravie co-founder and co-chief executive, said in a statement. Sen previously attributed some of the company's growth to the pandemic, which made healthcare top of mind for employers and their employees. He also attributed growth to the company's Comfort product that small to midsize companies use, since they typically won't have a dedicated benefits staff. Nick Williams is a business reporter for the Star Tribune. The Duluth-based utility reported 11 spills — all much smaller — between October 2021 and October 2023 at its large Boswell Energy Center in Cohasset, Minn., including three of ash wastewater.  For a generation, Wisconsin-based Organic Valley pushed a save-the-family-farm narrative as the cooperative grew. Now, their new CEO is eyeing revitalization of rural communities. Those chosen among the 1,800 pre-applications will have a head start when Minnesota issues licenses, likely next year. The Duluth-based utility reported 11 spills — all much smaller — between October 2021 and October 2023 at its large Boswell Energy Center in Cohasset, Minn., including three of ash wastewater.  © 2024 StarTribune.
All rights reserved.