
					by Sadi Muktadir 					   March 6, 2023
 
 With Canada facing an unprecedented labour shortage, the hope is that Project Arrow elicits interest from other major automotive makers to invest in Canada. Project Arrow on display at the Canadian International Auto Show The 2023 Canadian Auto Show returned after a two-year, COVID-19-related absence, and the throngs of people showed no signs that people were hesitant about attending. Taking place downtown at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, almost every major automotive player had a presence, including some start-ups and new international faces like VinFast. 2023 Canadian International Auto Show A key focus this year was on showcasing the electric models of many automotive manufacturers’ top brands, as they transition to producing EVs. In the middle of one of the showrooms, Project Arrow, the Canadian-made EV prototype was on display, completed and attempting to show off Canadian talent and technology. “If you want to manufacture an electric car, Canada is more than capable of making one bumper-to-bumper,” says Sofia Gerretsen, an Engineer with the Queen’s Hyperloop Design Team which was involved in the design of the Project Arrow. The car serves a number of purposes. To showcase the talents of young University students across the country, and Gerretsen mentions Carleton University, Ontario Tech University as well as Queen’s University as just some of the schools involved in the creation of the vehicle. With Canada facing an unprecedented labour shortage, the hope is that Project Arrow elicits interest from other major automotive makers to invest in Canada. “Show-goers are excited by the fact that the car is Canadian, through-and-through. They’re surprised by what’s been capable here, and excited by the fact that all of the infrastructure to make a Canadian car has finally been brought together to actually make one. It’s a demonstration of everything that Canada can do in terms of talent and innovation,” says Gerritsen. The car cost approximately $20M to make, and some of the funding was made available by the Canadian government, while some automotive manufacturers also donated parts towards its completion. APMA (Automotive Parts Manufacturer’s Association), and all of the other companies involved in the manufacturing of the vehicle understand that it’s a chance for parts manufacturers to display what they’ve been working on, from displays, powertrains and battery enclosures. The car is currently on a travelling tour, and will continue to appear at trade shows in an effort to promote Canada’s increasing role and capabilities in the EV space. Details around the car’s specifications can be found on Project Arrow’s site. Canadian Manufacturing is the top source for daily industry-focused news across Canada. We cover the world of manufacturing across all its sectors, sharing stories that impact your business, providing news, in-depth analysis and expert commentary.