WILMINGTON, N.C., Oct.  17, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- nCino, Inc. NCNO, a pioneer in cloud banking for the global financial services industry, today announced that Citizens Bank has chosen the nCino Cloud Banking Platform to gain greater flexibility in its internal processes and enhance the services it provides to clients. The bank will implement multiple solutions from nCino including its Commercial Banking Solution, Portfolio Analytics Solution, and Mortgage Suite. This suite of products utilizes a simple sign-on feature to access either a mobile user-interface or a point-of-sale, creating a streamlined workflow with no need for repetitive data entry. "We met with several different companies and ultimately decided nCino's single platform best met our needs," said Kelley Jensen, SVP, Mortgage and Consumer Division at Citizens Bank. "In a rapidly evolving financial landscape, we believe that consolidating multiple lines of business onto a single platform is not merely strategic, but essential. By unifying our approach, we're not just streamlining processes; we're redefining what it means to be customer-centric in the digital age and we're glad to be partnered with nCino as we continue to modernize." "Key partnerships are part of the foundation of our success. There are several reasons why we decided to partner with nCino, but one of the most important is that we believe they can assist us in achieving operational efficiencies that will help us continue to provide an industry leading client experience," Frank Sterbin, Chief Credit Officer at Citizens Bank. "We are thrilled to partner with Citizens Bank, a forward-thinking institution that shares our commitment to innovation and customer-centricity," says Will Cameron, SVP Community and Regional Banking at nCino. "By bringing their commercial and mortgage businesses onto a single platform we believe nCino will offer unparalleled value by creating seamless customer experiences, enhance operational efficiency, and foster innovation. We're excited for this journey and the positive impact it will have on Citizens Bank's clients." About nCinonCino NCNO is the worldwide leader in cloud banking. Through its single software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform, nCino helps financial institutions serving corporate and commercial, small business, consumer, and mortgage customers modernize and more effectively onboard clients, make loans, manage the loan lifecycle, and open accounts. Transforming how financial institutions operate through innovation, reputation and speed, nCino is partnered with more than 1,850 financial services providers globally. For more information, visit www.ncino.com. About Citizens BankCitizens Bank is an independent, locally owned community bank serving residents and businesses in and around Mukwonago, Wisconsin since 1892. With an asset size of $1 billion, the bank has been experiencing robust growth. Over the last five years, the bank's loan portfolio increased by 45% as it also placed emphasis on diversification. Citizens considers customer experience, technological investment, and operational efficiency among its top strategic priorities. The bank operates 12 branches in Southeastern Wisconsin and employs 175 people. To learn more about Citizens Bank, visit www.citizenbank.bank. Media ContactsNatalia Moosepress@ncino.com Leslie ColleyDepth for nCino Mortgage Suite+1 678.622.6229 leslie@depthpr.com Safe Harbor StatementThis press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally include actions, events, results, strategies and expectations and are often identifiable by use of the words "believes," "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "plans," "seeks," "estimates," "projects," "may," "will," "could," "might," or "continues" or similar expressions. Any forward-looking statements contained in this press release are based upon nCino's historical performance and its current plans, estimates, and expectations, and are not a representation that such plans, estimates, or expectations will be achieved. These forward-looking statements represent nCino's expectations as of the date of this press release. Subsequent events may cause these expectations to change and, except as may be required by law, nCino does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially including, among others, risks and uncertainties relating to the market adoption of our solution and privacy and data security matters. Additional risks and uncertainties that could affect nCino's business and financial results are included in reports filed by nCino with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (available on our web site at www.ncino.com or the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov). Further information on potential risks that could affect actual results will be included in other filings nCino makes with the SEC from time to time.  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.