Organizers said new courses have been announced for all races within the Cleveland Marathon – full, half, 10K and 5K.Joshua Gunter, cleveland.com CLEVELAND, Ohio – New courses have been announced for the Union Home Mortgage Cleveland Marathon events. Organizers said in a press release the courses for the 5K, 10K, half and full marathon will be entirely within Cleveland and take advantage of views of the Lake Erie shoreline and other attractions. The races are scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, May 20-21. Runners will start and finish near the Fountain of Eternal Life in Memorial Plaza. The course winds past Tower City and Public Square, Progressive Field and onto the Hope Memorial Bridge, where runners will see the Cuyahoga River and run by the Guardians of Traffic statues. The route continues goes through the city’s Tremont neighborhood, and runners will pass the Christmas Story House. Marathon runners will be able to see views of Cleveland and Lake Erie from Edgewater Park, the outdoor chandelier in Playhouse Square, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and others. About 10,000 runners, spectators, volunteers and others are expected to turn out for the 46th event. Festivities begin with the opening of the Health and Fitness Expo on Friday, May 19, at Huntington Convention Center. To see interactive maps of the courses with details like GPS info and water stops, go online. “Cleveland is a great American city. These routes demonstrate that like never before,” Ralph Staph, Cleveland Marathon race director, said in the release. “Whether you live here, you’re from here, or you’ve never been to Cleveland before, you’ll fall in love with the city before you finish the race.” Sports betting is now legal in Ohio. Bets can be placed at sportsbooks, including DraftKings Ohio Sportsbook, BetMGM Ohio, Fan Duel Ohio, Barstool Ohio, Caesars Ohio, Bet365, PointsBet and Tipico. Related coverage: Gambling 101: Everything you need to know about sports betting in Ohio I am on cleveland.com’s life and culture team and cover food, beer, wine and sports-related topics. If you want to see my stories, here’s a directory on cleveland.com. Bill Wills of WTAM-1100 and I talk food and drink usually at 8:20 a.m. Thursday morning. Twitter: @mbona30. Get a jumpstart on the weekend. Sign up for Cleveland.com’s weekly “In the CLE” email newsletter, your essential guide to the top things to do in Greater Cleveland. It will arrive in your inbox on Friday mornings - an exclusive to-do list, focusing on the best of the weekend fun. Restaurants, music, movies, performing arts, family fun and more. Click here to subscribe. All cleveland.com newsletters are free. Like cool local food + drinks photos and videos? Follow @DineDrinkCLE on Instagram. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices