Guest Guest Login | Sign Up Nintendo Life  Guest Login or Sign Up Games and goodies galore If you're unable to attend the Nintendo Live 2023 event in Seattle this coming September, then worry not, because Nintendo might well be heading to a city near you when it kicks off the 'Summer of Play' tour this week. Lasting from June 15th to August 28th, Nintendo will be touring the US from Minneapolis to Los Angeles in a bid to engage with the community with games and special goodies up for grabs. Attendees will be able to play a number of Switch games, including Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, Pikmin 4, and Animal Crossing: New Horizons, and also take part in Summer activities. You'll be gifted a Nintendo Summer of Play passport when you attend, which you can get stamped for every activity in which you take part. Complete the passport and you'll be rewarded with some goodies. Folks with a My Nintendo account will also be granted 100 My Nintendo Platinum Points along with a free gift while supplies last. Here's a peek at where Nintendo will be heading during the Summer: Mall of America - Minneapolis, MN - June 15th to June 18th Great Lakes Crossing Outlets - Detroit, MI - June 22nd to June 25th Meatpacking District Pop Up - New York, NY - June 29th - July 2nd West Town Mall - Knoxville, TN - July 7th to July 10th The Florida Mall - Orlando, FL - July 20th to July 23rd Barton Creek Square - Austin, TX - July 28th to July 31st FlatIron Crossing - Denver, CO - August 17th to August 20th Santa Monica Place® - Los Angeles, CA - August 25th to August 28th Nintendo has also stated that it will add an additional city "soon". This will presumably take place in the gap between its events in Austin and Denver. It definitely seems like it might be a worthy alternative if you're unable to get yourself to Seattle for Nintendo Live.  Get the lowdown on Nintendo's event Will you be heading to one of Nintendo's Summer of Play Tour events? Let us know in the comments below. About Ollie Reynolds  Nintendo Life’s resident horror fanatic, when he’s not knee-deep in Resident Evil and Silent Hill lore, Ollie likes to dive into a good horror book while nursing a lovely cup of tea. He also enjoys long walks and listens to everything from TOOL to Chuck Berry. Comments 19  If the image is accurate to how it'll be at the event, they remembered that DK exists!  I live in SoCal, I’ll check it out in Santa Monica!  Removed - off-topic; user is banned  Pretty great of them to bring the tour to Knoxville. West Town Mall is right in our neck of the woods. Looking forward to hanging out there with the wife and kid for a couple days at least. I haven't been able to make it to one of these before, so this is pretty exciting.  @Cashews Great Lakes Crossing isn’t actually in Detroit. Its about 35-40 minutes away from Detroit in Auburn Hills.  I know there is one rumour of a "July Direct" but I'm not convinced a July Direct will happen because a September Direct is almost guaranteed so that would be way too short of a gap between big Directs  @lemjor I thought that might be the case. I am guessing it is a more well-to-do suburb then eh? That is probably what they are doing here. Staying out of the **** areas. I would.  Nintendo always forgets about us canadians.   @SACHism and us British folk   @lemjor Everything is Detroit if it's in southeast Michigan. If it's southwest Michigan it's Grand Rapids. If it's neither, it's "up north".  Translation. We have no general Direct until September. So in the meantime lets pimp our current products harder. We've got a "15m Switches sold" quota to hit for investors. -Nintendo  @Kazman2007 lol yep! I’m from Michigan and can confirm.  You won’t be able to play Pikmin 4 pre-release here, right?  Sweet! I only live a couple hours from the Mall of America! Looks like I just got new weekend plans!  Removed - off-topic  I can't believe it, it's coming to the Detroit area. I figured it would be a Great Lakes Crossing. Nintendo sure loves giving out Platinum points. If I showed up, played all the games, got my stamps or whatever, I should get gold points, but I guess I ask for too much.   Why can't they come to Ohio? It would be nice if we got mentioned.  Nowhere near me. Too bad.  Meatpacking district, eh? A little upscale for a video game tour destination, but at least there’d be a ton of tourists. Might check it out if I got the time. Maybe I can make up for the Mario metal water bottle I left by mistake at the last event I went to.  Show Comments Leave A Comment Hold on there, you need to login to post a comment...  36 Longest Switch Games Worth Playing To The End Playing the long game  Mario Kart 8 Deluxe + Booster Course Physical Release Reportedly Updated It seems "all" of the DLC is on the card  Nintendo Announces 'Nintendo Museum Direct' Don't expect news about games or the "Switch successor"  Pokémon President Teases Special Game News For 2024 World Championships Closing Ceremony "I'll see you all again at the closing ceremonies"  It's Official, The Nintendo Museum Opens October 2024 "A free Nintendo Account is required to make a reservation" Featured Games      Popular Right Now Show More  Join 1,453,632 people following Nintendo Life: © 2024 Hookshot Media, partner of IGN Entertainment. Hosted by 44 Bytes.