Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Neal Street Productions / BBC The long-running, feel-good British series "Call the Midwife" premiered its annual Christmas-themed episode this past Sunday on PBS. Greg Allen/Greg Allen/Invision/AP 2022 Kennedy Center Honoree George Clooney and his wife, Amal Clooney, arrive at the Kennedy Center Honors on Sunday, Dec. 4, 2022, at The Kennedy Center in Washington. (Photo by Greg Allen/Invision/AP)  32. The Thin Man (1934) | Starring: William Powell, Myrna Loy, Maureen O'Sullivan, Nat Pendleton | The first of the six "Thin Man" films pairing William Powell and Myrna Loy as the breezy, boozy sleuthing team of Nick and Nora Charles. It has a 98% Freshness rating on Rotten Tomatoes. (Courtesy of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) WILSON WEBB/NETFLIX © 2022/AP This image released by Netflix shows Adam Driver, center, in a scene from "White Noise." (Wilson Webb/Netflix via AP) Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images North America/TNS Adam Driver stars in Netflix's "White Noise." The long-running, feel-good British series "Call the Midwife" premiered its annual Christmas-themed episode this past Sunday on PBS. This week’s new entertainment releases include a Netflix film starring Adam Driver made from Don DeLillo’s 1985 novel “White Noise” and a movie marathon on Turner Classic Movies featuring the martini-swilling detectives Nick and Nora Charles from “The Thin Man.” CBS will air the 45th annual Kennedy Center Honors, which this year recognized actor George Clooney, the band U2, singers Gladys Knight and Amy Grant and composer Tania León. And the long-running, feel-good British series “Call the Midwife” will premiere its annual Christmas-themed episode on Sunday on PBS.Here’s a collection of what’s arriving on TV and streaming services this week.“White Noise”Don DeLillo’s 1985 novel “White Noise” has long been said to be “unfilmable.” But Noah Baumbach’s energetic movie, streaming Friday on Netflix, makes a spirited argument for its adaptation. In Baumbach’s “White Noise,” Adam Driver stars as Jack Gladney, a college professor with a teeming suburban family (Greta Gerwig co-stars as his wife, Babette). When an “airborne toxic event” consumes their town and sends residents fleeing, a new fear of death pierces Jack’s middle-class existence. In my review, I praised the film’s “giddy gloom” and wholehearted embrace of the book’s dizzying, dense intensity. Be sure to stay for the LCD Soundsystem-soundtracked supermarket dance finale.
2022 Kennedy Center Honoree George Clooney and his wife, Amal Clooney, arrive at the Kennedy Center Honors on Sunday, Dec. 4, 2022, at The Kennedy Center in Washington. (Photo by Greg Allen/Invision/AP)“Kennedy Center Honors”CBS will air the 45th annual Kennedy Center Honors, which this year recognized actor George Clooney, the band U2, singers Gladys Knight and Amy Grant and composer Tania León. The Kennedy Center Honors is a lifetime achievement award given to performers for their impact on American culture through the arts. The event was filmed in early December and presenter Julia Roberts wore a custom dress featuring prints of various photos of her good pal Clooney. The Kennedy Center Honors show broadcasts Wednesday night.
32. The Thin Man (1934) | Starring: William Powell, Myrna Loy, Maureen O’Sullivan, Nat Pendleton | The first of the six “Thin Man” films pairing William Powell and Myrna Loy as the breezy, boozy sleuthing team of Nick and Nora Charles. It has a 98% Freshness rating on Rotten Tomatoes. (Courtesy of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer)“Thin Man” moviesFor some, New Year’s Eve was made for movie nights. And to ring in the new year, Turner Classic Movies is programming a festive run of the beloved, martini-swilling detectives Nick and Nora Charles. Beginning at 8 p.m. on Saturday, TCM will run a minimarathon of 1934’s “The Thin Man,” 1936’s “After the Thin Man” and 1939’s “Another Thin Man.” As the sophisticated husband-and-wife murder-solving team, William Powell and Myrna Loy remain delightfully fizzy company to cheers with.


The long-running, feel-good British series “Call the Midwife” premiered its annual Christmas-themed episode this past Sunday on PBS.“Call the Midwife”The long-running, feel-good British series “Call the Midwife” premiered its annual Christmas-themed episode this past Sunday on PBS. “Call the Midwife” follows a group of midwives and nuns in east London. Although it takes place in the 1950’s and 1960’s, the series tackles important subjects including infertility, racism, and unwanted pregnancies. “Call the Midwife” is based on a memoir by Jennifer Worth and is narrated by Vanessa Redgrave. Season 12 debuts in March on PBS. Here’s a collection of what’s arriving on TV and streaming services this week. “White Noise” Don DeLillo’s 1985 novel “White Noise” has long been said to be “unfilmable.” But Noah Baumbach’s energetic movie, streaming Friday on Netflix, makes a spirited argument for its adaptation. In Baumbach’s “White Noise,” Adam Driver stars as Jack Gladney, a college professor with a teeming suburban family (Greta Gerwig co-stars as his wife, Babette). When an “airborne toxic event” consumes their town and sends residents fleeing, a new fear of death pierces Jack’s middle-class existence. In my review, I praised the film’s “giddy gloom” and wholehearted embrace of the book’s dizzying, dense intensity. Be sure to stay for the LCD Soundsystem-soundtracked supermarket dance finale. “Kennedy Center Honors” CBS will air the 45th annual Kennedy Center Honors, which this year recognized actor George Clooney, the band U2, singers Gladys Knight and Amy Grant and composer Tania León. The Kennedy Center Honors is a lifetime achievement award given to performers for their impact on American culture through the arts. The event was filmed in early December and presenter Julia Roberts wore a custom dress featuring prints of various photos of her good pal Clooney. The Kennedy Center Honors show broadcasts Wednesday night. “Thin Man” movies For some, New Year’s Eve was made for movie nights. And to ring in the new year, Turner Classic Movies is programming a festive run of the beloved, martini-swilling detectives Nick and Nora Charles. Beginning at 8 p.m. on Saturday, TCM will run a minimarathon of 1934’s “The Thin Man,” 1936’s “After the Thin Man” and 1939’s “Another Thin Man.” As the sophisticated husband-and-wife murder-solving team, William Powell and Myrna Loy remain delightfully fizzy company to cheers with. “Call the Midwife” The long-running, feel-good British series “Call the Midwife” premiered its annual Christmas-themed episode this past Sunday on PBS. “Call the Midwife” follows a group of midwives and nuns in east London. Although it takes place in the 1950’s and 1960’s, the series tackles important subjects including infertility, racism, and unwanted pregnancies. “Call the Midwife” is based on a memoir by Jennifer Worth and is narrated by Vanessa Redgrave. Season 12 debuts in March on PBS. Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call