Processing.... The Defense Logistics Agency has begun seeking bids for a follow-on information technology contract vehicle worth potentially $12 billion over 10 years. DLA’s J6 Enterprise Technology Services 2.0 acquisition program will support applications, infrastructure, software, hardware and research and development projects across the DLA Information Operations enterprise, according to a notice posted Wednesday on SAM.gov. Task orders will include network and telecommunication services, enterprise service delivery, cybersecurity, program and project management, cloud hosting, data and information governance analytics, and application hosting environment modernization. DLA awarded 142 companies positions on the eight-year, $6 billion JETS contract in December 2016. Vendors have until May 24 to submit offers for the forthcoming procurement vehicle. The Defense Logistics Agency has awarded $180 million in total to ASRC Federal and SupplyCore to procure facilities maintenance, repair and operations supplies. The $90 million firm-fixed-price, indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract with ASRC Federal has a June 15, 2025, ordering period end date while the one with SupplyCore runs until Feb. 6, 2025, the Department of Defense Ten companies won spots on a $92.5 million blanket purchase agreement to provide strategic transformation and enterprise project support services to the Defense Logistics Agency. DLA received 14 bids for the five-year firm-fixed-price BPA and will fund the contract using fiscal 2024 through 2029 defense working capital funds and other budget allocations, the Department of The Defense Logistics Agency has awarded seven small businesses positions on a potential $7 billion contract to provide fire and emergency equipment and related logistics support for U.S. military services. The Department of Defense said Thursday DLA launched a competitive acquisition process and received 14 offers for the indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract, which will support the U.S. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here