[Image: sidmay/iStockphoto] VanTrust Real Estate, which has an office in Dallas, has announced a new division that is designed to match its real estate expertise and capital resources with both public and private sector clients in the life sciences, R&D, institutional, governmental, biotech, pharmaceutical and technology industries. VanTrust Science + Technology is a real estate investment and development division that is focused on creating and deploying real estate strategies that drive value for its clients operating across these cutting-edge sectors. EVP Rich Muller, a founding member of Kansas City-based VanTrust, will lead the firm’s national expansion into the science and technology space. VanTrust Development Services veterans, Jeff Turk and Ryan Lidke, will provide this new division with design and construction oversight. The team will be joined by two Kansas City executives, Scott Hall and Lori Top, both of whom will join VanTrust as vice presidents. “With VanTrust Science + Technology, we have assembled an experienced team that is uniquely skilled at distilling the complex real estate and capital requirements that often accompany projects in the science and technology industries into collaborative and actionable solutions. To this end, we’re thrilled to have both Scott and Lori be part of the VanTrust family and look forward to leveraging their collective expertise to grow our presence in this exciting space,” Muller said in a statement. “We are equally comfortable delivering projects on a fee basis, as a joint venture partner, or as owner. It really just boils down to what works best for the specific real estate,” Muller said. From left: Rich Muller, Lori Top, and Scott Hall Hall, a veteran professional in the field of economic and community development, brings a wealth of expertise and a proven track record to VanTrust’s Science + Technology division, the company said. Top joins the VanTrust team as an experienced design and construction executive with more than 25 years of experience. She has extensive experience managing projects that require distilling complexity, incorporating cutting-edge technology, and helping to define positive solutions is integral to her role in the VanTrust Science + Technology division. The company said that Top excels at building relationships, developing and leading project teams, and creating environments that foster successful project outcomes. Before VanTrust, Top’s prior experience includes nearly 14 years as a principal at Burns & McDonnell, where she oversaw complex and large-scale design and construction projects across a diverse array of industries with a total cost of more than $3.8 billion. At VanTrust, she will focus on fostering strategic client, consulting, and construction partnerships while leveraging her background in real estate and complex projects to define opportunities in the science and technology industries. VanTrust Real Estate LLC is a full-service real estate development company. The company acquires and develops real estate assets for the Van Tuyl family portfolio and offers a broad range of real estate services including acquisition, disposition, development, development services, corporate services, and asset management.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Jim Lake and Amanda Moreno are turning 40,000 square feet of real estate in downtown Cedar Hill into a mixed-use development with offices, restaurants, residential, and retail space. The $14 million project, which has yet to be named, builds on Jim Lake Companies' Bishop Arts success. Local developer and consulting firm Innovan Neighborhoods is leading the roundtable's efforts to increase affordable housing in the region while accelerating the revitalization of underserved communities around Dallas. With initial funding from JPMorgan Chase, "flexible capital" could help boost needed projects. "When we put funds and resources behind innovative solutions, we can see neighborhoods and communities set up for long-term success,” says Maggie Parker, Innovan's founder and managing partner. Dottid, a fast-growing startup founded in 2018, aims to disrupt the $2.3T commercial real estate industry. Its latest technology could save asset managers and dealmakers both time and money by consolidating multiple platforms into a single operations solution. Here’s how your company could be named one of the most innovative, fastest-growing companies in North America. The prestigious Fast 500 rankings honor companies large and small, public and private. Time is ticking: Apply by June 23, 2023. CBRE said the acquisition complements its existing global Integrated Laboratory Solutions capabilities for occupier clients in the fast-growing research and laboratory equipment sector. The deal "positions CBRE to self-deliver an impressive range of scientific laboratory maintenance and repair services," says John Dunstan, CEO of GWS/Enterprise at CBRE. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.