Shown are Jennifer Sammartino, executive director of Community Media of Staten Island (CMSI), left, Borough President Vito Fossella, and Maria Esposito, chairwoman of the board of directors of CTV.(Photo courtesy CMSI) STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. —  Community Media of Staten Island (CMSI) has announced that it has created with Cablecast a new streaming platform for all four of its channels, plus an on-demand portal for community-created programming. “The industry has changed and we are evolving to meet the needs and demands of our community,” said Jennifer Sammartino, executive director of CMSI. A still-new partnership with Cablecast allows CMSI to not only broadcast to Spectrum and Verizon as they currently do on four channels, but also offers streaming and video-on-demand on a new website, communitymediasi.org, and via a new app. The new CMSI app can be found by searching the Apple Store and Google Play for “community media.” To watch programming via the website, go to communitymediasi.org/watch. The app is free and available on Google Play, App store, Apple TV, Amazon Firestick and Roku. “We are embarking on a new chapter of technology,” said Maria Esposito, chairwoman of the CTV board of directors. “We are thrilled today that we are able to share some remarkable updates to the studio that speak volumes to our growth. “We believe that it is extremely important to meet our audiences where they are,” added Sammartino. “In order to do that, we need to deliver content directly to our community in the way they are most comfortable, in addition to our existing Cable TV channels. For many Staten Islanders, that means via a handheld device like your phone or via smart TV.” CMSI has debuted a new streaming platform. Pictured are Jennifer Sammartino, left, executive director of Community Media of Staten Island (CMSI), Maria Esposito, chairwoman of the board of directors of CTV, and Borough President Vito Fossella. (Courtesy CMSI) LIVE BROADCASTS NOW AVAILABLE, TOO In addition to Cablecast, CMSI recently invested in LiveU, which allows CMSI staff to broadcast live from outside of the studio. “While we are not a news organization, there are certainly times where going to live from the field is an asset to the community,” said Sammartino. Borough President Vito Fossella praised the new expansion of CMSI’s services. “I think it’s fair to say that today marks a whole new chapter in the storybook of community media for Staten Island,” he said. “I credit the leadership here for investing (in) it, making the decision and commitment to advance, if you will, in technology. “There is no reason why Staten Island can’t be on the cutting edge of anything, including this technology and providing among other things live streaming from the field.” Fossella and Sammartino announced that this year – for the first time ever- the annual 9/11 Memorial Ceremony at Postcards will be broadcast live on channels 34 and 37/1997. “We know there are plenty of Staten Islanders that would like to participate in the ceremony who are not able to physically get to the site,” Sammartino said. “By going live from the event, these folks can be a part of this very special memorial and it is my most sincere hope that it brings them comfort.” In addition to the live broadcast of Postcards, it will also air on Tuesday, Sept. 12 at 7 p.m. on channel 34. “The 911 ceremony will be the first (live event), and how fitting,” said Fossella. “The community of Staten Island came together to help those who needed help at that dire time. Fortunately, here we are 22 years later, and the community of Staten Island still stands with those 911 families and victims. “That community spirit cannot go away. I think by integrating these new technologies, new platforms and new ways of delivering information we can bring Staten Island even closer.” ABOUT COMMUNITY MEDIA OF STATEN ISLAND Staten Island Community Television (SICTV) was founded in 1983 as a result of a franchise agreement between the city of New York and Staten Island Cable (now Spectrum). Permanently opened in 1988, SICTV is organized as a not-for-profit corporation under IRS Code 501C3 and currently has a board of directors appointed by the borough president of Staten Island. Channels provide local programming created by the wide variety of individuals, groups and organizations within a community. In 2023, the name was changed to CMSI. CMSI provides comprehensive television production training for eligible community members. Eligible members are defined as Staten Island residents or individuals affiliated with Staten Island-based not-for-profit organizations. Volunteers, who assume all responsibility for materials submitted for Cablecast, produce programming from start to finish. Access to channel space is on a first-come, first-served basis. Equipment and channel usage is free of charge to eligible community members. Interested in making your own content? Give them a call at (718) 727-1414, or visit sictv.org.  If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices