As Long Islanders hit the lights to welcome the holiday season, they shared their gratitude for simple pleasures: time to gather with family and friends, to slow down and enjoy the moment, to create an outward display of their spirit for all to enjoy.   “We often get so caught up in the seasonal rush, and the past couple of years have been so challenging,” said Melissa Walsh, whose display glows in Lynbrook. “Everyone should keep in mind that the most important things are the simple things — family and friends and cherishing the simple moments of the season — like driving around with our family and looking at holiday lights.”   You’ll be nothing short of amazed as you traverse the Island — from Sea Cliff to Island Park, Shoreham to Patchogue and beyond — to look at the lights. The hard work and ingenuity of your neighbors is on glorious display. And they can’t wait for you to stop for a look, whether driving or on foot.   “We look forward to our visitors and hope they can come disconnect from reality and just take in the light display,” said Anthony Imperati, whose home lights up the night in West Islip.   Use our map or the list below to find your way to displays across Long Island. Read more about this year’s featured homes here.  From breaking news to special features and documentaries, the NewsdayTV team is covering the issues that matter to you.  By clicking Sign up, you agree to our privacy policy.  Aquebogue   56 Ida Lane, Brown family   Bay Shore   8 Avon Place, Murphy family   –Accepting donations for the Marty Lyons Foundation   Bellmore   325 St. Marks Ave., Romeo family   Bethpage   3872 Hahn Ave., Ferraro family   2 Norfolk Lane, Fitzpatrick family   –Accepting donations for the Marty Lyons Foundation; display synchronized to music   Brentwood   163 Grand Blvd., Beatty family   Carle Place   583 Broadway, D’Alonzo family   –Accepting donations for the American Parkinson Disease Association   Calverton   1 Robins Circle, Salzmann family  
	The Fabris family's Christmas light display at 3 Malibu Lane in Centereach.
 Credit: Morgan Campbell  Centereach   3 Malibu Lane, Fabris family   –Accepting donations for Stony Brook Children's Hospital; display synchronized to music   58 Woodview Lane, LeViness family   10 Laura Dr., Loggia family   60 Woodview Lane, Luciani family   14 Elwood Rd., Vicidomine family   –Accepting donations for Make-A-Wish of Suffolk County; display synchronized to music   Commack   11 Delaware Ave., Salander family   –Featuring a model train Holiday Hanukkah Run from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Dec. 19 and Dec. 23-27  The Russo family’s display at 7 St. Clair St. in Deer Park.
 Credit: D.J. Russo  Deer Park   119 Liberty St., Barbieri family   –Accepting donations for Leukemia & Lymphoma Society; display synchronized to music   7 St. Clair St., Russo family   –Accepting donations for the Brain Aneurysm Foundation   50 Pebble Lane, Zieris family   –Accepting donations for Make-A-Wish Foundation; display synchronized to music   Dix Hills   3 Chantilly Court, Kurkowski family   Elmont   347 Werns Ave., Albano family   –Display synchronized to music   857 Washington St., Culmone family   20 Virginia Dr., Culmone family   Farmingdale   7 Normandy Dr., Catalano family   288 Van Cott Ave., Nemeth family   Garden City   4 Lincoln St., Schlatter family   –Accepting donations for Make-A-Wish Foundation; display synchronized to music   Glen Cove   3 Bryant Rd., Basile family  
	The Levine family decorates their Great Neck home at 1 Highland Ave. for Hanukkah.
 Credit: Stan Levine  Great Neck   1 Highland Ave., Levine family   Hicksville   416 Division Ave., Cimino family   50 Haverford Rd., Herder family   Holbrook   109 Glen Summer Rd., Murphy family   –Accepting donations for the Marty Lyons Foundation   Holtsville   4 Blossom Ave., Nardella family   151 Sixth Ave., Sirianni family   Huntington   54 Briarfield Lane, Dickstein family   14 Gay Lore Dr., Maneri family  
	Nichole and William Barnes created this holiday display at 1071 Vanderbilt Ave. in Island Park.
 Credit: Nichole Barnes  Island Park   1071 Vanderbilt Ave., Barnes family   Kings Park   8 Colby Dr., Esposito family   –Accepting donations for the Marty Lyons Foundation   11 Alder Dr., Vasquez family   Levittown   20 Haymaker Lane, Baffi family   –Display synchronized to music   22 Crescent Lane, Chirillo family   137 Sunrise Lane, Mordechai-Strongin family   70 Wadsworth Ave., O’Gara family   16 Swing Lane, Shea family   Nick and Alaina Vezzi’s home at 240 S. Third St. in Lindenhurst is decked out for the holidays.

 Credit: Nick Vezzi  Lindenhurst   36 Irene St., David family   252 36th St., Spinazzola family   240 S. Third St., Vezzi family   Lynbrook   113 Wood St., Walsh family   Malverne   4 Wagg Ave., Armstrong family   Manorville   8 Sheila Ct., Messina family   –Display synchronized to music   Massapequa   21 New York Ave., Marte family   31 Brockmeyer Dr., Risolo family   Massapequa Park   175 Brendan Ave., Giambruno family   308 Ocean Ave., Gordon family   21 Larch Lane, Panetta family   Merrick   2509 Yale Place, Heide family   Miller Place   12 Heather Lane, Leek family   Mineola   444 Lewis Place, O'Sullivan family   Nesconset   5 Laura Ct., Forbes family   North Bellmore   1369 Dewey Ave., Whittaker family  
	This is the final year for the Oemcke family's sparkling holiday display in North Massapequa.
 Credit: Howard Simmons  North Massapequa   289 N. Boston Ave., Bove family   –Accepting donations for Toys of Hope   186 N. Syracuse Ave., Oemcke family   –Accepting donations for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital   Northport   226 Woodbine Ave., Scancarelli family   –Waterfall and lights are synchronized   Oceanside   3286 Messick Ave., Rossello family   –Accepting donations for the American Cancer Society   144 Weidner Ave., Sitzman family   –Accepting donations for the The New York Police and Fire Widows’ and Children’s Benefit Fund; display synchronized to music   Patchogue   143 Rowland St., Rocklein family  
	The holiday decorations at the Spagnuolo family's home at 33 Jamaica Ave. in Plainview.
 Credit: Howard Simmons  Plainview   33 Jamaica Ave., Spagnuolo family   Ronkonkoma   2560 Sycamore Ave., Bullis family   –Accepting donations for Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons   2570 Sycamore Ave., Ciccarelli family   –Accepting donations for Paws of War   8A Fifth St., Curto family   –Accepting donations for Mended Little Hearts of Long Island; display synchronized to music   4220 Express Dr. S., Fiore family   709 Peconic St., Palminteri family  
	A dog in a Santa hat is part of the Christmas light display at the Marciante home at 3 Sergent Ct. in St. James.
 Credit: Morgan Campbell  St. James   11 Heidie Ct., Hare family   –Display synchronized to music   3 Sergent Ct., Marciante family   Sayville   203 Johnson Ave., Theofield family   Sea Cliff   85 Eighth Ave., Brigis family   Seaford   2638 Seminole Ave., Clendenning family   745 Arlington Dr., Dabbraccio family   Selden   29 Blue Point Rd., Ritchie family  
	From left, Kristopher Koerner, Mikayla Koerner, 10, Kristopher Koerner, 15, and Nicole Koerner in front of the nativity scene at their Christmas light display at 15 Southgate in Shoreham.
 Credit: Morgan Campbell  Shoreham   15 Southgate, Koerner family   –Accepting donations for Babies Heart Fund   Stony Brook   44 Mills Rd., Inserra family   –Accepting donations Ronald McDonald House Charities; display synchronized to music   Valley Stream   17 Roeckel Ave., Angioletti family   92 Grant Dr. E., Arencibia Family   Wantagh   2947 Mandalay Beach Rd., Bruno family   1316 Darby Rd. E., Marolda family   West Babylon   98 Woodrow Pkwy., Gangone family   –Accepting Letters to Santa   1101 Herzel Blvd., Osman family   –Accepting donations for Make-A-Wish of Suffolk County; display synchronized to music   West Hempstead   550 Pauley Dr., D’Aversa family  
	The holiday decorations at the Imperati family's home in West Islip.
 Credit: Howard Simmons  West Islip   229 W. Third St., Imperati family   –Display synchronized to music   40 Pace Dr. S., Imperati family   –Display synchronized to music   Westbury   853 Bowling Green Dr., Stark family   Newsday's LI Life Holiday Lights online was created by photo editors Hillary Raskin and John Paraskevas, video editor Susan Yale, digital producers Joe Diglio and Josh Stewart, and news editor Jonalyn Schuon; interviews were conducted by Jim Merritt.  Rosemary Olander is the editor for Newsday's Sunday LI Life and Act 2 sections. She has been an editor at Newsday since 2005. George Santos pleads guilty  Former LI Congressman George Santos pleaded guilty in connection with a federal criminal case. Watch NewsdayTV's live coverage. Get more on these and other NewsdayTV stories The Newsday app makes it easier to access content without having to log in. Unlimited Digital AccessOnly 25¢for 5 months Privacy Policy |Terms of service |Subscription terms |Your ad choices |Cookie Settings |California Privacy Rights |About Us |Contact Newsday |Reprints & permissions |Advertise with Newsday |Help Copyright ©2024 Newsday. All rights reserved.