  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters The UK’s mortgage crisis ramped up again today as two of the biggest high street banks raised the prices of their fixed rate deals in a move that brokers have called “brutal”.  Halifax, part of Lloyds Banking Group, the UK’s biggest mortgage lender, increased the cost of selected fixed-rate mortgage deals by up to 0.63 percentage points on Wednesday, according to the financial information service Moneyfacts.  Another of the so-called “Big Six” banks – Santander – also increased some fixed-rate products by up to 0.36 percentage points in a sign the mortgage meltdown shows no sign of ceasing. It comes a day after five-year fixed mortgage rates hit an average of 6.01 per cent for the first time since the fall out of last year’s mini-Budget. Halifax’s latest product guide for brokers shows that as of Wednesday, the rate on a two-year fixed deal with a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of up to 60 per cent, with no fee, has risen to 6.07 per cent.  On a two-year deal with a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of up to 60 per cent with a £999 fee, the rate has risen to 5.81 per cent. In June, that same rate was at 4.54 per cent, Reuters reported. Other major high street lenders – including Leeds Building Society, Yorkshire Bank and TSB – have also increased their fixed rates in the last 24 hours. The latest fixed rate increases come after all six major high street banks raised the price of their cheapest fixed rate deals last week, pulling up the average fixed interest rate to 6.37 per cent.  i revealed on Tuesday that homeowners are braced for four more Bank of England interest base rate rises this year.  Mortgage broker Adam Smith, founder at Alfa Mortgages, described the rate increases on Wednesday as “the new normal” and said: “We are seeing similar rises from lenders across the board.”  He added: “These rates feel brutal at the moment, but in a couple of months we will look back and consider them a good deal. Much like looking back to February and March time now.” David Hollingworth, associate communications director at L&C Mortgages, told i mortgage borrowers are still facing “choppy waters” as lenders change deals on a weekly basis without much notice, and there is little sign this will change soon.  He said the changeable rates could be down to market expectation around the Bank of England needing to keep increasing the base rate to stave off inflation. “Secondly the market is moving so quickly that any lender that fails to respond the changes in rates will find itself attracting more and more business as borrowers rush to grab a fixed rate before they rise further.  “The withdrawal of rates will see a spike of applications come in which can risk bowling the lender over with a wave of new business. As a result lenders are repricing regularly to avoid these big spikes in an effort to protect their service levels.” Samuel Mather-Holgate, a financial adviser at Mather and Murray Financial, said the rising interest rates  suggested banks are not looking for new business. Amit Patel, a mortgage adviser at Trinity Finance, said the ongoing pace of change in the mortgage market was “absolute carnage”.  “Halifax has decided to effectively price itself out of the market to protect its loan book and current obligations to its existing savers and borrowers,” Mr Patel said.  “This is the new normal, with no apparent end in sight, unless the Bank of England starts lowering the base rate – which looks unlikely.” Earlier this week, experts who have formerly been part of the team that sets the base rate told i that the base rate – which is central to the cost of mortgages – is likely to rise at least 0.25 percentage points in August when the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) next sits. They further warned that as the Bank and the Government try to bring inflation down in the months to come, the interest base rate could rise as high as 6 per cent by Christmas, up from 5 per cent today. All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.