For premium support please call: For premium support please call: The latest proposed developments, housing and other construction projects, and new businesses around Idaho’s Treasure Valley: Al’s Sporting Goods, a specialty sporting goods retailer, is opening a new store in Boise. The 45,000-square-foot building is on Milwaukee Street next to Barnes and Noble. The store will employ up to 80 people, , according to a news release. Al’s Sporting Goods has four other stores, including one in Idaho Falls. The store sells gear from brands like Nike, The North Face and Patagonia. — Jeffery Hatch with Hatch Design Architecture has requested a list of neighbors to contact for a meeting about a new Starbucks coffee shop at 5586 N. Maple Grove Road in Garden City, south of West Chinden Boulevard. — Michael Tresp, with APDG in Texas, has filed a request for a permit to build a 5,500-square-foot Ultra Clean Car Wash at 8924 W. Franklin Road, east of South Maple Grove Road. — Boise is moving ahead with repairs to its Lander Street Water Renewal Facility, a sewage treatment plant. The Northwest Boise plant, built in 1948, has been undergoing repairs to update aging infrastructure. In early July, a general contractor, McAlvain Construction, filed permits to build $15 million worth of “Phase 2” improvements. — Boise’s urban renewal agency, the Capital City Development Corp., plans to reimburse Boise for up to $113,000 for an art project along Grove Street between 9th and 16th Streets. The project will be managed by Boise’s Department of Arts and History, and the city will identify artists to design the project. — Boise leaders are hoping to clamp down on graffiti. Potential changes to city law, presented to the City Council this month, could make it easier for the city to clean up graffiti that is on private property. Today, that responsibility falls on property owners, who can sometimes be difficult to reach, said Mayor Lauren McLean’s Deputy Chief of Staff Kristine Miller at a council presentation. Miller said the city’s goal is to get graffiti cleaned up as quickly as possible, and the new plans could push the city to pursue agreements with outside agencies that own public property in Boise, like the Ada County Highway District. — A new Hilton Home2 Suites hotel could be coming south of The Village at Meridian. The six-story hotel would be located near the intersection of Eagle and Franklin roads at 200 S. Brooklyn Ave., according to a filing with the city. The planned 85,855-square-foot building would have 127 rooms. The hotel would also have a breakfast area, fitness center, indoor pool, meeting space and rooftop amenities. — A public hearing is scheduled on a request by The Base Jiu Jitsu, a Boise jiu jitsu business, to open a martial arts school near the corner of Pine Avenue and Eagle Road. The school would lease 2,950 square feet out of the building at 2640 E. State Avenue. “Our martial arts school which was established 20 years ago will operate out of this location, offering kids and adult classes to the general public, by private membership only,” the application said.  The Meridian Planning and Zoning Commission is scheduled to hear the proposal at 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 3, at City Hall. — New Horizon Academy wants to build a day care center near Victory and Meridian Roads in the Victory Commons Development.  Victory Commons is a Ball Ventures Ahlquist development with a Saltzer Health Clinic and a WestVet clinic. The day care would be in a 10,000 square foot building with two fenced playgrounds and parking lot at 2918 S. Meridian Road, the application said. The Meridian Planning and Zoning Commission is scheduled to hear the proposal at 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 3, at City Hall. — Brighton Corp. filed a final plat application to build the second phase of the Apex Northwest Subdivision. The second phase includes 55 houses on over 12 acres. The subdivision is located at 6575 S. Locust Grove Road. — East Idaho Credit Union bought 1.34 acres at 3325 W. Franklin Road, according to Cushman and Wakefield. Since opening its first branch in 1935, this Idaho Falls-based bank has 12 locations in the state, most of them concentrated in the eastern region, according to its website. A Meridian location would be its second in the Treasure Valley. — Brighton Development Corp. wants to build 57 town houses on the northwest corner of Ustick Road and Venable Lane. The Driftwood Subdivision would occupy nine acres, according to the application. It would include 13 two-bedroom units and 44 three bedroom units, the application said. All of the homes would have two stories. Amenities for Driftwood would include a clubhouse, playground and picnic area. The Meridian City Council is scheduled to hear the proposal at 6 p.m. Tuesday, Aug. 8, at City Hall. Challenger Development Inc., a development company owned by Corey Barton, wants to build 60 single family homes on 16.5 acres. The development, called Clear Creek Subdivision, would be located north of West Rooselvelt Avenue and east of South Middleton Road. Challenger brought the application after the Nampa City Council said it didn’t want the previously proposed 107 town houses but would be interested in single-family homes, the application said.  The development would include a a 0.67-acre common area with a playground, picnic shelter and pathways, the application said. The development is adjacent to the Wilson Drain, and the developer plans to add a pathway along the canal. — Vapor Loft plans to open a shop on the corner of 12th and Georgia avenues. The vape shop leased a 2,938-square-foot building at 1225 12th Ave., according to TOK Commercial. — Savory Swig Stores leased 1,200 square feet of retail space at 1866 Caldwell Blvd., according to Cushman and Wakefield. The space formerly housed a Gyro Shack. Swig is a soda chain that allows customers to customize sodas with a variety of add-ons. Founded in St. George, Utah, in 2010, the company has since expanded to more than 50 locations across the country with dozens of new openings in the works, according to KSL news. The Larry H. Miller Co. acquired a majority stake in Swig in 2022. — Rep. Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, wants to secure funding for The Peregrine Fund’s World Center for Birds of Prey to revamp its workforce housing and make other site improvements. The money Simpson hopes to secure was approved by the House Committee on Appropriations on July 18 under a transportation funding bill. The package still needs a vote on the House floor. It includes $3.1 million for the center to rebuild seven housing units, repair its only access road and purchase backup generators to “maintain uninterrupted power to sensitive systems.” The proposal said the center’s workforce housing is dilapidated and the access road needs repaving. It said the infrastructure investments will help the World Center for Birds of Prey continues its species recovery work for the next three to four decades. The World Center for Birds of Prey, a 12-mile drive south of downtown Boise, is home to some of the world’s rarest birds, including the endangered California condor. The center covers about 580 acres and has 50,000 annual visitors. — The Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission plans to vote on a request to rezone more than 400 acres near the intersection of South Orchard Access Road and East Monroe Avenue to allow for an industrial development. AmeriTies, an Oregon-based railroad tie manufacturer, is proposing a sawmill at the site to cut, treat and store ties for Nebraska-based Union Pacific Railroad, which operates railroad tracks running next to the proposed sawmill. A branch would be added to the tracks extending directly onto the property. The site would including six buildings and outdoor storage for railroad ties. The land is currently zoned as rangeland, and would be rezoned to industrial under the proposal. A public hearing is set at the commission’s 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, meeting at the Ada County Courthouse, 2000 W. Front St., Boise. — Antonio Ayon has applied to build a wholesale nursery and a contractor yard on 5 acres at 5956 W. Overland Road. The Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission set a public hearing at its 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, meeting at the Ada County Courthouse, 2000 W. Front St., Boise. — Terry T. King Landscape Architecture, of Boise and Ketchum, has applied for an event center on 37 acres at 6381 W. Amity Road. The Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission set a public hearing at its 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, meeting at the Ada County Courthouse, 2000 W. Front St., Boise. — Rep. Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, is pushing to build a child care center for the children of Treasure Valley law enforcement personnel. Some police officers “struggle to find accessible and affordable child care options during their shifts, leaving many officers unable to continue serving,” Simpson said in a news release. The Appropriations Committee voted July 18 to advance a transportation funding bill that includes $2.65 million for the center, according to a Simpson spokesperson Lexi Hamel. Hamel declined to disclose the potential locations of the center “due to the safety and security of the law enforcement’s children,” she said. The bill is expected next to receive a vote by the full House. Home prices in Ada County marched upward for the third consecutive month. The median sales price in June was $545,000, up nearly 2% from May but still down 8% from the same month a year ago, according to the latest report from the Intermountain Multiple Listing Service. The report said 1,363 homes were for sale in Ada County — 811 existing homes and 552 from new construction — but there is still more demand than there is supply. Boise Regional Realtors said in a news release that mortgage applications had trended up for three weeks in a row. “Buyers are patiently waiting for more options to become available, while sellers are hesitant to abandon their attractive interest rates from purchases during the pandemic,” Boise Regional Realtors President Debbi Myers said in the release. — After Boise City Council President Holli Woodings’ resignation July 11, the council held new elections for council leaders on July 18. The council unanimously elected Council Member Jimmy Hallyburton as its president. His tenure will last until the end of the year. He previously served as pro tem, the secondary leadership job. Council Member Patrick Bageant was unanimously selected as the new pro tem. — Col. Michael Alfaro took command of the 366th Fighter Wing, headquartered at Mountain Home Air Force Base, on July 18. Alfaro is now responsible for 5,000 airmen and 50 F-15E Strike Eagle aircraft, said a news release from the Air Force. He has logged more than 2,000 hours flying the F-15E, of which 744 were combat hours logged during Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Col. Ernesto DiVittorio, the previous commander, will take a new assignment at the Eisenhower School of National Strategy and Resource Strategy in Washington, D.C. — Latest Boise apartment rents, house prices. A cooking school. Child care. Coming near you Concerts in Canyon County’s wine district? Businesses said yes, residents no. Who won 15 stories. A rooftop bar. This name-brand hotel is set to be built in downtown Boise Major upgrades are on the horizon at the Idaho Botanical Garden. See what’s in store Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement