
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The massive restructuring of Nike’s leadership team and responsibilities is aimed at streamlining the business, CEO John Donahoe said in a statement. Nike did not immediately respond to questions about if any positions were eliminated as a result of the shifts. “These shifts will allow us to streamline our focus across product, brand storytelling and marketplace, mining deep consumer insights to deliver breakthrough innovation and engagement, while building long-term growth and profitability,” Donahoe said. In the new structure, Uzzell — whose successor at Converse has not been named — will report to Williams, and the leaders of both Jordan Brand and Converse will report to Donahoe. The repositioning also puts Williams in charge of both Nike’s direct and wholesale business across four geographies, in addition to leading supply chain and logistics.  Nike has leaned into its direct-to-consumer business in recent years, prioritizing it over less effective wholesale relationships. But the retailer maintains strong ties with some of its larger partners, including Dick’s Sporting Goods, and has even moved toward integrating its loyalty program and experiences with those sellers. Meanwhile, O’Neill’s new position puts her in charge of the company’s product engine, and places both global sports marketing and global brand marketing under her leadership. The change will “fully integrate [Nike’s] brand marketing storytelling to build deep relationships and engagement with the brand,” according to the release. COO Campion’s new position leading strategic business ventures is aimed at identifying areas where Nike can “drive disproportionate growth.” Notably, that includes its virtual efforts. Nike in November launched a marketplace to trade and collect virtual products and other creations, .Swoosh, and just last month released its first virtual collection, Our Force 1. These executive changes come just a few months after Nike named a new vice president and general manager of its women’s business, in addition to new leadership for Asia Pacific and Latin America, and a new diversity chief. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts One has a downsizing plan that includes profitable stores. The other plans to keep — and possibly open — even low-volume stores. What’s going on? The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts One has a downsizing plan that includes profitable stores. The other plans to keep — and possibly open — even low-volume stores. What’s going on? The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines