The NFL is the world’s richest sports league, with the pending sale of the Washington Commanders for $6 billion the latest example of its wealth. But when it comes to reaching the largest global audience, the other football dominates the marketing landscape. Soccer events (World Cup, Champions League), players (Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi) and teams (Real Madrid, Manchester United) have massive global reach when compared to every other sport. That spread is reflected in KORE’s annual “State of the Industry” report, released Tuesday, which looks at trends in sponsorship and marketing spending and value. More from Sportico.com Trailing NBA Playoff Teams Feed Off Desperation in Game 2: Data Viz Fanatics-WWE Partnership Grows to Cover Retail at 300 Annual Events Sporting Goods Inventory Increases in 2022 With Mixed Profitability Global football players, teams and leagues have more total followers, 54% of the total sports universe, and engagement, 53%, than all other sports combined. The sport’s social media accounts have more than 15 billion followers, with basketball ranked second at 2.5 billion and cricket in third at 2 billion. KORE quantifies sponsorship value on social media through its adjusted ad value (AAV) metric, which factors in the platform, engagement, positioning, clarity and promotional quality of imagery and text in social media posts. It measured more than 19 million posts by athletes, leagues and teams on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Twitter, YouTube, Weibo and VK to see which ones generated the most value during 2022. It found that Instagram videos were the most engaging form of content in 2022. Nike is the leading brand on social media with $869 million in AAV derived from its sports sponsorships, 69% ahead of second-ranked Adidas ($513 million). KORE counted more than 29,000 entities promoting the Swoosh on social media, including some of the most famous athletes and teams on the planet, such as LeBron James, Tiger Woods, Barcelona and Liverpool. Nike categorizes sponsorships as “demand creation” in its financial filings, which also counts advertising and media costs. The tally was $3.85 billion for the 2022 fiscal year, and the company has long-term obligations of $7.6 billion, according to its most recent 10-K. The value for many of the top-10 brands—including Emirates, Heineken and PlayStation—was driven by deals with the UEFA Champions League. F1 is another big driver; Emirates and Heineken are global sponsors of the series, while Santander is a principal sponsor of Ferrari and Puma supplies apparel to the Mercedes and Red Bull Racing teams. The biggest mover for sponsorship value since the pre-COVID 2019 measurement was education tech startup Byju’s, which ranked 10th at $107 million. The Bangalore, India-based firm secured high-profile sponsorships for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, along with a jersey sponsorship for India’s national cricket team; however, the money-losing brand said it would not renew its jersey sponsorship when it expired last month. Global soccer icons dominate the list of athletes who create the most value for their sponsors on social media. The sheer volume of their followings makes any post an opportunity to generate value. The brands partnering with these athletes are getting a bargain, according to data from KORE and Sportico. KORE’s algorithm shows that Cristiano Ronaldo generated $124 million in AAV for his endorsement partners, followed by Lionel Messi ($94 million), Neymar ($35 million) and Kylian Mbappé ($21 million). Sportico’s list of highest-paid soccer players estimates Ronaldo ($60 million) and Messi ($50 million) will earn much less from their endorsement partners, which use the players beyond social media for broadcast, print and online ad campaigns. Messi can’t equal Ronaldo’s social media following and doesn’t post as frequently, but his posts following Argentina’s World Cup title resulted in four of the seven most-viewer Instagram posts of all time. Three of them featured the three-stripe logo of Adidas, which sponsors Messi and the Argentinian national team. Indian cricket star Virat Kohli is the only non-soccer player in the top six for AAV. The 650 million engagements across his social media accounts generated $30 million in value for brands. LeBron James is the highest-ranking athlete in American team sports at No. 24 with $8.8 million. The female athletes generating the most value for sponsors on social media are much more diverse, with no overlap by sport within the top 10. The 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing helped freestyle skier Eileen Gu drive the most value for sponsors online—she ranked fourth on Sportico's list of highest-paid female athletes, thanks to more than 20 endorsement partners leading up to the games. Gu generated $4.1 million in online value for those sponsors last year, per KORE. Gymnast Olivia Dunne has been an NIL star while competing for LSU since 2020. She ranked fourth overall with $2.9 in AAV for sponsors, behind Swiss soccer star Alisha Lehman and tennis ace Serena Williams. Eight of the top 10 teams ranked for AAV were European soccer clubs. Spain’s Real Madrid and Barcelona led the way with $310 million and $191 million, respectively. Real Madrid drove more value than any other pro sports league, outside of the NBA and Formula 1. The Golden State Warriors—with an AAV of $84 million—were the only U.S. sports team to crack the top 25. Best of Sportico.com What NFTs Mean for Sports Business Disney to Spend $44.9 Billion on Sports Rights Through 2027 SPACs: What a Special Purpose Acquisition Company Means for Sports Click here to read the full article.  Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. What fantasy football draft strategy is right for you? Our team outlines several different approaches to building your roster. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season.