E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		 Jacob, who likes to go by Jake, is an athletic teenager. Jake enjoys engaging in activities like fishing, swimming, and basketball. He also has shown interest in lacrosse and martial arts. Jake is performing at grade level and enjoys spending time with his peers at school.His social worker feels he would do best in a family with at least one female. Jake would do well with older children in the home or children similar in age. He would do best in a home that is active and has clear expectations.Can I Adopt?If you’re at least 18 years old, have a stable source of income, and room in your heart, you may be a perfect match to adopt a waiting child. Adoptive parents can be single, married, or partnered; experienced or not; renters or homeowners; LGBTQ+ singles and couples. As an adoptive parent, you won’t have to pay any fees, adoption from foster care is completely free in Massachusetts.The process to adopt a child from foster care includes training, interviews, and home visits to determine if adoption is right for you. These steps will help match you with a child or sibling group that your family will fit well with.To learn more about adoption from foster care visit www.mareinc.org . Massachusetts Adoption Resource Exchange (MARE) can give you guidance and information on the adoption process. Reach out today to find out all the ways you can help children and teens in foster care. His social worker feels he would do best in a family with at least one female. Jake would do well with older children in the home or children similar in age. He would do best in a home that is active and has clear expectations. Can I Adopt? If you’re at least 18 years old, have a stable source of income, and room in your heart, you may be a perfect match to adopt a waiting child. Adoptive parents can be single, married, or partnered; experienced or not; renters or homeowners; LGBTQ+ singles and couples. As an adoptive parent, you won’t have to pay any fees, adoption from foster care is completely free in Massachusetts. The process to adopt a child from foster care includes training, interviews, and home visits to determine if adoption is right for you. These steps will help match you with a child or sibling group that your family will fit well with. To learn more about adoption from foster care visit www.mareinc.org . Massachusetts Adoption Resource Exchange (MARE) can give you guidance and information on the adoption process. Reach out today to find out all the ways you can help children and teens in foster care. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group