The European Commission has cleared Microsoft’s $69bn takeover of Call of Duty publisher Activision Blizzard, a move that will likely put further pressure on the CMA’s decision to block the deal. The UK’s competition watchdog blocked the deal last month, saying it would hamper competition in the emerging cloud gaming market. Both Microsoft and Activision slammed the decision, with the game publisher saying the decision was a “disservice to UK citizens, who face increasingly dire economic prospects”. But today the European Commission found no such reasons to block the deal. It said that rather than harming consumers, the deal would “kickstart” the cloud gaming market, where games are streamed online from remote servers. Alex Haffner, competition partner at London law firm Fladgate, highlighted how the deal leaves the CMA standing alone in its decision. “The European Commission’s decision leaves clear blue water between it and the UK CMA in their assessment of whether competitive concerns as to the future of the cloud gaming market could properly be dealt with through (behavioural) commitments offered by the parties,” he said. “Whereas the Commission felt these commitments, essentially a form of open licensing allowing gamers to stream Activision games on the platform/device of their choice  were ‘sufficiently comprehensive’, the CMA’s earlier decision described the same form of commitments as too static and unable to account for changes in the market over time. “Critics of the CMA’s stance, of which there have been many, will inevitably seize on today’s decision as proving the point made that the UK’s regulatory regime is too rigid and stifles innovation. Microsoft and Activision’s lawyers will also use the decision to provide greater ballast to their appeal of the CMA’s decision which is in the works. Haffner added that the US Federal Trade Commission’s decision on the mega-deal will be closely watched. “What is now at stake, however, is not just any perceived differences in the UK and EU regulatory regimes, but more fundamentally whether the power wielded by big tech needs to be dealt with through structural rather than behavioural means,” he said. “It is worth remembering also that the US Federal Trade Commission has yet to reach its final decision in connection with the same merger and many have suggested they too are gunning for Big Tech. “There is clearly still much to play for here.” Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick said the company planned further expansion in Europe upon completion of the merger. “The EC conducted an extremely thorough, deliberate process to gain a comprehensive understanding of gaming,” he said. “As a result, they approved our merger with Microsoft, although they required stringent remedies to ensure robust competition in our rapidly growing industry. “We have deep roots in Europe. Our company was founded in France. Candy Crush — one of our most successful franchises — was created in Sweden. And the senior leadership of our company comes from across the EU, including Austria, Germany, and Sweden. “We intend to meaningfully expand our investment and workforce throughout the EU, and we’re excited for the benefits our transaction brings to players in Europe and around the world.” Investors are counting down to a speech by Jerome Powell at Jackson Hole that could reset rate-cut expectations. Monday's supermoon is the first of four this year.  During a supermoon, the full moon inches a little closer than usual to Earth.  A supermoon isn’t bigger, but it can appear that way in the night sky, although scientists say the difference can be barely perceptible. Top US diplomat Antony Blinken on Monday said Israel has accepted a US "bridging proposal" for a Gaza truce deal, and pressed Hamas to do the same, having earlier said the talks may be the "last opportunity" for a ceasefire.It came as Israel and Hamas traded blame for delays in reaching a truce deal. Russia on Monday ruled out any peace talks with Ukraine despite Kyiv raising pressure on the Kremlin by claiming fresh advances in its offensive into Russian territory.- Zelensky urges peace talks -
Zelensky confirmed that he had not informed his allies in advance of the Kursk offensive, claiming that they would have opposed it. President Joe Biden is expected to be the final speaker of day one of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. Former president Barack Obama is one of the speakers scheduled to take the stage on the DNC's second day. Here's what to know about his speech. As the DNC kicks off in Chicago, the presidential campaign of Vice President Kamala Harris announced a new, bilingual WhatsApp channel targeting Latino voters. Tech tycoon Mike Lynch, one of six people missing from a sunken yacht off Sicily, had been trying to move past a Silicon Valley debacle that had tarnished his legacy as an icon of British ingenuity.  Lynch, 59, struck gold when he sold Autonomy, a software maker he founded in 1996, to Hewlett-Packard for $11 billion in 2011.  The fraud allegations resulting in Lynch being fired by HP's then-CEO Meg Whitman and a decade-long legal battle. The Republican-led House Committees investigating whether to impeach President Joe Biden released their long-awaited report on their findings, arguing President Biden has committed impeachable conduct but deferring to the full House on whether to pursue a formal impeachment. Want to hunt for black holes, but lack access to a mountaintop observatory or deep-space telescope? There’s an app for that—and you can help out astronomers by using it. Developed by the Dutch Black Hole Consortium, an interdisciplinary research project based in the Netherlands, Black Hole Finder is a free program available both on smartphones […] On the outskirts of Chicago, as enthusiastic Democrats gather for their national convention, some residents of "Little Palestine" have a different message for presidential nominee Kamala Harris.The kickoff of the Democratic National Convention on Monday, just 15 miles (24 kilometers) away in downtown Chicago, has only heightened divisions between Palestinian Americans and the national party, and comes amid similar fractures with the country's larger Arab community, once a reliable Democratic vot About 30 Democratic delegates out of 4,995 were uncommitted, but 160 others consider themselves cease-fire delegates. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. U.S. voters will be heading to the polls or mailing their presidential ballots in less than eleven weeks. European scientists were due to attempt a first in orbital gymnastics late on Monday, tapping into the gravity of the Moon and then the Earth in quick succession to guide the JUICE probe towards Jupiter in the first-ever double slingshot manoeuvre.  Just over a year after it was launched, the European Space agency's Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer (JUICE) is returning towards Earth on Aug. 19-20 and will use the braking effect of its gravity to take a shortcut to Venus and onwards to Jupiter.  In a novel double manoeuvre, the Airbus-built JUICE probe will first use the gravity of the Moon to swing towards Earth on exactly the right trajectory. For seven years, Rich Logis was a staunch supporter of Republican Donald Trump, attending his rallies and using far-right media to assail his detractors."Donald Trump has pitted strangers against each other," Logis told AFP from Miami, explaining his transition. Protests are scheduled for each day of the DNC, which runs from Monday through Thursday night. An estimated 50,000 people are expected to be in Chicago for the convention this week. "In the U.S., ignorance is bliss, with public health leaders rolling the dice that this too shall pass," writes Simar Bajaj and Robert Glatter. Among the numerous snakes on planet Earth, pythons are well known for their incredible ability to swallow their prey whole. Some python species have been spotted taking down deer, cows, and even alligators, but they don’t generally eat every single day the way that most animals do. While scientists have observed their eating patterns for […] Wen Raiti, a Chinese American community leader in Jacksonville, Florida, has been a Republican for more than a decade.