From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. Welcome to TikTok Debunked, a new series where Yahoo Canada digs into the truth behind popular TikTok health, beauty and food trends. This article is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Contact a qualified medical professional before engaging in any physical activity, or making any changes to your diet, medication or lifestyle. TikTok has 3.2 million active monthly users in Canada, and while many people use the app to wind down after a long day, or to share funny videos with friends, it's also a place to find the latest beauty trends and DIY projects. One viral trend highlights the supposed health benefits of mustard. Celebrities such as Marie Osmond and athletes including Zachary L’Heureux have backed the condiment, saying that it helps them relieve cramps and promote immunity. But is mustard really a health cure-all? Read on for everything you need to know about this social media trend — and whether or not health experts endorse it. While mustard's supposed health benefits have been studied for some time, weight loss TikToker @paulybweightloss went viral for posting a video that highlighted why he thinks mustard is a superfood. His video, which has been viewed over a million times, explained that allegedly mustard has the ability to relieve muscle cramps and spasms, can help respiratory disorders and cure body aches. He also explained that he thinks mustard can prevent bad breath, fight cancer, promote heart health, aid metabolism and strengthen bones. To participate in this trend, all you have to do is consume one tablespoon of mustard per day and see if you notice a difference in your health. Since @paulybweightloss posted his original video, the tag "mustard health benefits" has garnered thousands of videos. Users either post about how they think mustard has helped their health, or how they think it's a healthy food to eat in general. However, some TikTokers can't stomach eating one tablespoon of the condiment at a time, and many have been hesitant to believe that mustard is actually a health cure-all. To get an expert's opinion on the trend, Yahoo Canada interviewed dietitian Abbey Sharp and a media representative from Health Canada. When asked her thoughts about the viral clip, Sharp was skeptical and urged viewers to be aware of overblown health trends — even if it is a tasty addition to meals. "Drinking condiments seems like a strange way to meet your nutrient needs... A lot of the claims around mustard like 'curing cancer' are obviously sensationalized," she said. "But mustard is one of the most low calorie and nutrient dense condiments, so I think there's value in incorporating it into meals if you enjoy it." Sharp added although mustard seeds are rich in disease-fighting antioxidants, you'd have to consume an excessive amount of mustard to actually see measurable health outcomes. "We have no research on consumable prepared mustard and these health outcomes, so we have no idea what the dose would need to be to reach these health benefits," she explained. Health Canada agrees with the dietitian, and believes Canadians should instead follow Canada’s food guide and make healthy dietary changes that you can maintain. "There is no evidence to suggest one food or food product can cure various health conditions. Rather than basing one’s food choices on food trends, Health Canada recommends eating a variety of healthy foods and limiting highly processed foods which can contribute excess sodium, sugars, or saturated fat to the diet," the organization said. Additionally, Health Canada explained while food trends may be marketed as optimal health, it doesn't mean it's a healthy choice for you to try. Ultimately, while mustard contains antioxidants like glucosinolates, which can help reduce inflammation, experts like Sharp are hesitant to add a bottle of mustard to their next grocery list. "I wouldn’t recommend squirting it into your mouth every day. This also would likely be hard on your teeth due to the vinegar content. I think a tablespoon of yellow mustard is very unlikely to move the needle on any health parameters," Sharp concluded.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Marie Osmond (@marieosmond) Mustard can be a tasty and versatile condiment. Many celebrities, athletes and TikTok users swear by the tangy treat for it's supposed ability to fight off deadly diseases and improve your health and immunity. However, both Health Canada and a registered dietitian want people to know that while mustard does contain antioxidants and is nutrient-dense, consuming one tablespoon a day is unlikely to give you any real benefit. As a result of the expert opinions, Yahoo Canada has debunked this TikTok trend. If you're a sauce or condiment lover and still want to keep your wellness in check, check out the eight best condiments for your health. Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Did Hideki Matsuyama violate Rule 8-1 during the final round of the FedEx St. Jude Championship on Sunday? The PGA Tour determined that a violation wasn’t committed by the eventual champion, but the moment is worth closer investigating.