
	It was a slow start to the cross-country ski season in North Bay due to Mother Nature, however trails are now open in full force. 
	"It's been a bit colder, so the snow sets up really nice,” said Otto Bedard, a member of the North Bay Nordic Ski Club board. 
	“Nice sunny day, with most of the trails open so it's nice to see people out here.” 
	Fifty kilometres of trails are open for skiers to access, Bedard told CTV News these good conditions wouldn't be possible without the hard work of the volunteers. 
	"We had volunteers out trying to get the trails open, in front of the groomer with shovels. Digging snow from within the banks and bringing it down to the trails so that the groomer could groom for days and days," he said. 
	"All of our clearing is done in the fall to make sure all the sticks and rocks are moved, which is countless hours for that." 
	The Nordic Ski Club’s variety of trails allows skiers of all skill levels to enjoy the network. 
	"It is a physical sport, but it is accessible. We have a wide variety of trails in terms of what we can offer new and experienced skiers, hills, not hills," Bedard said. 
	Bedard said the sport continues to grow locally, with over 800 members now part of the club, more than any previous year. 
	For more information on the club, visit their website. U.S. President Joe Biden delivered his valedictory address to the Democratic National Convention on Monday night, as his decision to end his re-election bid released newfound energy within his party with Vice-President Kamala Harris′ elevation to the top of the ticket.  Protesters broke through a fence set up by police near the site of the Democratic National Convention on its opening day Monday as thousands took to the streets to voice their opposition to the war in Gaza.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  The Conservative Party of Canada has deleted a video that promoted Canadian values but featured what the Defence Minister's office says are Russian fighter jets.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Speaking from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, the Canadian ambassador to the United States says Canada is 'starting from a very good position' with the Democrats’ presidential ticket of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  Shawn Ladoceur is one of several individuals with intellectual disabilities who lived at one of two group homes that were recently closed by the not-for-profit organization due to a lack of provincial funding.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  Zanne Fernwood was running some errands on her motorbike in Toronto's Greektown area late Monday afternoon when she unexpectedly became a witness to a spectacular crash involving a black hot rod.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  Ottawa Mayor Mark Sutcliffe met with Ontario Premier Doug Ford on Monday, but there is still no commitment from the province on funding for transit services as the mayor warns of looming cuts without help from upper levels of government.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The community of Ayr, Ont. is starting to rebuild after a destructive EF1 tornado tore its way through the village over the weekend.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  The Dutchie’s Fresh Food Market on Gateway Park Drive in Kitchener appears to be closed.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Member of Parliament for London North Centre, Peter Fragiskatos, was in Sarnia Monday on behalf of the agriculture minister to announce a sizable donation to Bioindustrial Innovation Canada (BIC).  An Essex County family is hoping for help after a recent turn of events left them searching for solutions to find proper long term care for a loved one.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  t's been 10 days since the big rainstorm caused flooding across Montreal, and one street in Dorval was especially hit hard.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  Jason Michael Olivo lives in the Jardins Victoria condo complex in Lachine. His unit flooded in July of last year. Now it has happened again.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Two lifeguards who helped rescue four swimmers at Black Brook Beach along the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton said high waves created a dangerous situation on Sunday.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  British Columbia’s health minister took time during a recent city council meeting to emphasize the province’s success in retaining and recruiting nurses compared to Alberta.  A new movie starring Hollywood heavyweights Robert Pattinson, Jennifer Lawrence and LaKeith Stanfield began filming in Calgary Monday.  It's "early days" on the plan to rebuild Jasper following wildfires that destroyed a third of the picturesque town in the majestic Alberta Rockies, says the province's minister of municipal affairs.  Workers at Canada's two main railways could go on strike as early as Thursday, stranding $55 million worth of Alberta cargo per day.  One year ago, an esteemed arctic climate researcher died while conducting field work in a remote part of the Canadian arctic, prompting the University of Alberta to review and enhance its safety protocols for field researchers.  Day one of an inquest into the death of Nicole Lafontaine, a 31-year-old woman who fell from a fifth story window of Regina's YWCA building, has officially wrapped.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  The mayor of Sandy Bay, a remote northern village, said the community has declared a state of emergency, as an intense wildfire threatens the area.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  When the Bush Creek East fire went from a slow burn to a full conflagration on Aug. 18 of 2023, members of the Skwlax te Secwepemculecw First Nation fled for their lives, some jumping into canoes and boats to escape the raging flames. One year later, they spoke about their experiences and celebrated everyone’s safe escape.  The union representing Air Canada pilots says job action could happen next month if a new collective agreement isn’t reached.  Several people were injured during a rollover crash at a busy intersection in Surrey, B.C., on Monday afternoon, including an infant.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  The Sooke School District has acquired a 7.2-acre plot of land in North Langford to build a middle school, as enrollment within the district continues to grow.  The union representing Air Canada pilots says job action could happen next month if a new collective agreement isn’t reached.  © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy