 Now  70  Sat  82  Sun  79 by KRISTINA WATROBSKI | Crisis in the Classroom TOPICS: FREEPORT, Maine (CITC) — A high school runner in Maine is facing backlash for placing in the top five of a girls' cross country race just one year after performing poorly in the male division. Soren Stark-Chessa runs cross country at Maine Coast Waldorf High School. The sophomore, who social media users claim is transgender, placed fifth in the girls' division of the Maine XC Festival of Champions Saturday. Results from the same competition last year show Stark-Chessa placing 206th in the boys' division. The student-athlete ran nearly one minute faster this year, completing the race in a time of 18:11 compared to 19:04 in 2022. Maine Coast Waldorf High School's profile on team management website Athletic.net also shows Stark-Chessa listed as a member of its male team in 2022 before being moved to its female roster this year. In a video posted Saturday of Stark-Chessa finishing the race, one spectator can be heard yelling "way to cheat, bro" at the runner. The video has since gone viral, with social media users debating the fairness of Stark-Chessa's participation. "As the girl who often came in tenth, this really bothers me," one user wrote on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter. READ MORE | Transgender runner qualifies for California girls' championships after 2nd-place finish The matter even drew the attention of women's sports advocate Riley Gaines, who recently launched the Riley Gaines Center to advocate on behalf of biological woman in sports. "Anyone who thinks trans-identifying males competing in women's sports is fair, please show me ONE example of a female ranking higher against the men at a competitive level than she did in the women's category," Gaines wrote on X. “This is yet another example of men invading and taking over women's sports," Kaitlynn Wheeler, an ambassador for the Riley Gaines Center at the Leadership Institute and former NCAA swimmer told CITC. "This is unfair and discouraging to every girl in that sports conference who is giving her all to be the best runner she can be – women’s sports isn’t a retirement home for failed male athletes. We all owe it to these girls to speak up and fight the push to erase women and destroy women’s sports. These injustices will only accelerate if we don’t speak up now." The Maine Principals' Association, the state's governing body for high school sports, requires transgender student-athletes to provide medical, legal and school records before participating in any competitions based on their gender identity. Glendon Rand, the director of the Maine XC Festival of Champions, told Crisis in the Classroom (CITC) that the association "assured" him that both Stark-Chessa and Maine Coast Waldorf High School had gone through the appropriate "approval process" prior to Saturday. CITC reached out to Maine Coast Waldorf High School for comment, but did not receive a response prior to publication. This story will be updated if a response is received. READ MORE | Injured volleyball player speaks out after alleged transgender opponent spiked ball at her Earlier this year, a similar debate was sparked in California. Athena Ryan, a transgender high schooler, received backlash after qualifying for the state's track and field championships in the girls' division. Ryan ultimately withdrew from the competition, citing safety concerns. Fairness in women's sports has been a significant point of debate since former collegiate swimmer Lia Thomas, a transgender woman,qualified to participate in the NCAA championship in late 2021. The controversy around Thomas eventually led to several major athletic organizations, including the NCAA, making changes to their policies on transgender participants.