businessRetail By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer By  Maria HalkiasStaff writer 3:02 PM on Aug 4, 2023 CDT Nike has reopened at NorthPark Center in its new space on the mall’s north side facing Park Lane. The store is on two levels and it has a special name. Here are a few things to know about the remodeled and reimagined store from the sports apparel and footwear maker at NorthPark: The Nike Rise at NorthPark is its latest store concept open in North America. There aren’t many yet — London, Seoul and late last year a Rise store opened in Miami’s Aventura Mall. Three others have opened in Bellevue Square near Seattle and two in California at Del Amo Fashion Center in Torrance and in Santa Monica Place. The brand, which had sales of $46.7 billion last year, describes Nike Rise as “a sport performance-led retail experience designed to inspire, connect and equip athletes of all ages.” You’ll be the judge. The store is on level 1 and 2 between Macy’s and Nordstrom in the former H&M space. The merchandise is focused on running, fitness, basketball, Jordan, Nike Classics, and a general sports lifestyle for men, women and kids. The latest on retail openings, closings and trends in D-FW. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy The store opened with U.S. jerseys just in time for the 2023 Women’s World Cup knockout rounds. Apparel includes the new Universa (that’s right, no l) Leggings and Alate and Swoosh sports bras. Just in case the temperatures cool down someday, there’s Phoenix Fleece and Tech Fleece. Back-to-school performance tops and bottoms for kids are in the mix. Nike and Jordan are in abundance. Look for the Nike Pegasus 40, Free Metcon 5, G.T. Cut and Jordan Luka 2, released last month for the Dallas Mavericks superstar. Sport Pulse is a digital platform for local activities from the Nike Run Club and Nike Training Club apps. Sport Pulse shares content and stories that Nike hopes will draw customers into the store’s local sports community. The NorthPark store scheduled two events for its grand opening. The store’s service hub is staffed for both online and in-store pickups and returns. They also keep tabs and share info about local sporting events in the market. X: @MariaHalkias Looking for more retail coverage? Click here to read all retail news and updates. Click here to subscribe to D-FW Retail and more newsletters from The Dallas Morning News. Maria Halkias, Staff writer. Maria Halkias has covered the retail scene for The Dallas Morning News since 1993. She has chronicled the stark changes in grocery, malls, e-commerce, major bankruptcies and local retail entrepreneurs. 