Between $60,000 and $100,000 worth of goods was stolen. According to CNBC, the rise of organized retail crime across the United States in recent years has spurred not only a heated national discussion but proposal of legislation in the hopes of cracking down on the crime. Yet while some lawmakers are indeed trying to mitigate the issue, the problem persists, with one recent incident involving dozens of individuals shoplifting items from a luxury store. NBC News reports how between about 30 to 50 people swarmed a Nordstrom at the Westfield Topanga Mall located in the Woodland Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, Calif., this past Saturday. The same NBC News article continues to detail how roughly $60,000 to $100,000 was lost as a result of the thefts, and that some of the shoplifters even used bear spray against security guards during the spree. “What happened today at the Nordstrom in Topanga Mall is absolutely unacceptable,” said Mayor Karen Bass via statement later that day. “Those who committed these acts and acts like it in neighboring areas must be held accountable.” The Los Angeles Daily News explains how this is by no means the first time the location (or others close by) has been hit by such a flash mob-style robbery: A similar incident occurred in November 2021 while another of these “flash mobs” hit a Yves Saint Laurent in Glendale on Tuesday, Aug. 8. The investigation into this latest theft at the Westfield Topanga Mall remains ongoing as of the publication of this article. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices