Newsletters Newsletters   This article is over a year old, and the information within may be out of date. Ontario 511.com UPDATE (4:25 p.m. Tuesday, April 19): The lane and north shoulder of Highway 400 northbound have reopened north of Port Severn.  Cleared: Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys At 11:47 a.m. on April 9, the lane and the north shoulder remained closed north of Port Severn. Updated: Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys https://t.co/5UX9vynRCb The closure, which began again as of 9:39 a.m. on April 18, takes place in the same area as the closure that began at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, April 18, at Joe King’s Road OP.  Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys https://t.co/5UX9vynRCb As of 7:04 p.m. on Tuesday, April 18, Highway 400 northbound was fully reopened north of Port Severn after being reduced to one lane due to guardrail repairs for approximately nine hours, according to the Ministry of Transportation. Cleared: Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys At 5:08 p.m. on April 18, Highway 400 north remained reduced to one lane in the Port Severn area. One lane and the north shoulder were closed at Joe King’s Road due to guardrail repairs, according to the Ministry of Transportation. The closure began at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, April 18. Updated: Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys https://t.co/XVIztl1z6K At 1:07 p.m., one lane and the north shoulder of Highway 400 northbound remained closed north of Port Severn.  Updated: Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys https://t.co/XVIztl11hc The closure, which began as of 10 a.m. on April 18, occurred at Joe King’s Road OP due to guardrail repairs, according to the Ministry of Transportation.  Other on #HWY400 Northbound at JOE KING’S RD OP. 1 lane and NORTH shoulder closed. #Incident #ONHwys https://t.co/XVIztl11hc For updates and information on road conditions and traffic delays, including live tweets from OPP and MTO, visit our LIVE: Muskoka traffic and road conditions and LIVE: Parry Sound traffic and road conditions.  Top stories delivered to your inbox. 
Error! There was an error processing your request.
         
           There was a problem with the recaptcha. Please try again.
         
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         
                                 Want more of the latest from us? Sign up for more at our newsletter page.
                             
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: © Copyright 2024 Metroland Media Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved
8 Spadina Avenue, Suite 10A, Toronto, ON M5V 0S8       Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.    
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.