As per the partnership agreement, Code Green will leverage the power of tokenized educational content to help children learn about protecting the planet.  Web 3 community-led educational protocol Open Campus and TinyTap, a leading edtech platform for user-generated educational games, will enter a strategic partnership with Code Green, a Web 3 organization using blockchain and art to champion environmental conservation, to teach current and future generations about climate change. The initiative aims to help people, especially kids, about preserving nature via the Open Campus platform, which provides a platform for tokenized educational content and interactive games.  According to the official press release, the latest initiative aims to support the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) efforts, which link environment and development to sustainable land management. With the world currently fighting to stop pollution and damaging industrialisation, the initiative by Open Campus and Code Green paves the way for new generations to learn about climate change and how to develop economies sustainably.  Following the announcement, Yogev Shelly, CEO of TinyTap, stated: “We are excited to work with Code Green, which is a partner to the United Nations’ efforts to combat climate change by educating our kids about what is going on in our planet.” In addition to the educational content, TinyTap will launch a new climate change course, leveraging the rich lores and avatars on HEALV3RSE, a “play-to-heal” game on The Sandbox developed by Code Green. The game will allow players to educate themselves more about conservation and the climate, incentivizing them to explore further environmental conservation and eco-friendly activities, including planting trees, cleaning oceans, and installing solar panels.  “By taking HEALV3RSE avatars to TinyTap, we develop a perfect companion to its metaverse game on The Sandbox,” Shelly added. “This offers parents and kids multiple ways to learn about our changing world in a fun and engaging way.” To kick off the course, Open Campus and Code Green will be rewarding players with 100 HEALV3RSE avatar and NFT equipment in a giveaway campaign. To have a chance to win, players need to join the giveaway campaign and help market the course to their friends and family. The campaign dates are yet to be released. Follow Open Campus’ Twitter page for more details on the campaign.  The latest initiative has caught the attention of UNCCD, with Inna Modja, CEO of Code Green, Malian actress, singer, environmental activist, and Goodwill Ambassador for the UNCCD stating the importance of education in fighting climate change.   “By combining education, technology, and gaming, we’re creating a unique platform to engage children and empower them with the knowledge and awareness to tackle this urgent crisis for our planet,” Modja said.   Partnering with Code Green is the latest effort by Open Campus to provide educational content on climate change to users. In late July, the Web 3 educational platform launched its maiden climate change initiative, “Climate Change for Kids”, aiming to foster knowledge and educate younger generations on the impacts of climate change and how to preserve our world.  The #ClimateChange4Kids campaign launched on X (formerly Twitter), gaining over 200,000 impressions in the past two weeks, with educators and content creators worldwide joining the campaign. Added to the initiative is a $1,000,000 fund to incentivise content creators on Open Campus to create content on climate change. Tagged the “Living Stories” project, educators, teachers, and parents can engage in discussions and share their experiences in fighting climate change.  Moreover, the “Living Stories” project also includes a climate-themed sticker pack developed by TinyTap to aid educators in course creation; and a new game called “Climate Detectives: Saving Planet Earth” available for free on TinyTap. Away from the climate change talk, Open Campus has witnessed massive growth to its platform in the past few months, mainly driven by its “Global Educators Fund”. The Fund is a $10 million grant set up by Open Campus to grow the educational content and incentivize creators on the platform. The Fund has welcomed several top VCs and firms in the Web 3 educational space, including Animoca Brands,  TinyTap, GEMS Education, Liberty City Ventures, Dalton Learning Lab, and others.  Finally, Binance announced a promotion running through 31 August that offers all eligible users who use Binance Pay to complete a purchase of at least $5 equivalent in Open Campus native token, $EDU, with qualified partner merchants at Binance Marketplace a 1.5 $EDU token voucher.               No spam, no lies, only insights. You can unsubscribe at any time. John Kiguru is an accomplished editor with a strong affinity for all things blockchain and crypto. Leveraging his editorial expertise, he brings clarity and coherence to complex topics within the decentralized technology sphere. With a meticulous approach, John refines and enhances content, ensuring that each piece resonates with the audience.
John earned his Bachelor's degree in Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services from the University of Nairobi. His academic background enriches his ability to grasp and communicate intricate concepts within the blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Business Email: [email protected]
Phone: +49 160 92211628 About us
Contact us
Editorial Guidelines
Terms of Use
Legals
Data protection policy
Cookie Policy *= Affiliate-Link 
Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel. 