
			Fee will increase to over £11,000 as authorities seek ways to help pay for ‘retrieval’ of victims
		 Nepal will make climbing Mount Everest more expensive amid growing concerns over the costs of removing dead bodies from its perilous slopes. Tourism authorities announced the cost of a climbing permit for foreigners would increase by $4,000 to $15,000 (about £11,782) from 2025 in the first such price rise since 2015. The move came amid a rise in cases of dead mountaineers being abandoned on the mountain. It costs $11,000 (£8,640) to try and scale the 5.5-mile-high mountain, which, at more than 29,000ft, is the world’s tallest. Nepalese climbers are charged a cheaper fee of about £400. Regulations will also be changed to include a rule that dead bodies of climbers must be brought down from the mountain. Most climbers’ bodies are left behind because of the difficulties and costs of retrieving them, especially in the atmosphere of Everest’s “death zone”, even though some degree of insurance coverage is mandatory for all those who attempt the climb. Mountaineering officials told the Kathmandu Post it could cost between £15,704 to £157,000 to bring down a corpse from the zone, which sits 4.9 miles up the mountain, where temperatures can dip to minus 30C (-22F) or lower. Experts have said this is likely to be one of the deadliest years in history on the mountain, with 17 killed on its slopes since the beginning of 2023. Rakesh Gurung, of the Nepalese Department of Tourism, said that insurance coverage, the salaries paid to porters, high-altitude workers and guides, and facilities would be improved with the additional income generated by the hiked climbing fee. Among other rule changes, foreign agencies will also have to formalise their business practices and transactions, he said. There are no records of what such agencies charge their clients to tackle Everest. “Since some agencies have already taken bookings for expeditions in 2024, we have given them time so that their business will not be affected,” Mr Gurung said. Nima Nuru Sherpa, president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, said only a few climbers were covered by their insurance for search and rescue. “We are discussing making insurance mandatory in search-and-rescue operations for all to support the retrieval of bodies from the mountain,” he said. “If the dead bodies are not retrieved during that particular time or season, we have urged the government to issue a royalty-free permit to retrieve them at any time during the season or the next year.” Nepal issued a record 478 permits to climb Everest this spring climbing season. There have been more than 300 deaths on the mountain since 1953, when its peak was first reached by Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay. More than 200 bodies are said to still dot its slopes.