BEIJING, March 31, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- WiMi Hologram Cloud Inc. (NASDAQ: WIMI) ("WiMi" or the "Company"), a leading global Hologram Augmented Reality ("AR") Technology provider, today announced the development of a 3D target recognition algorithm system based on deep learning. Deep learning can simulate the human brain's visual system with its characteristics of passing from concrete to abstraction and multiple layers. By building multilayer neural networks, the system extracts and abstracts feature from the original information layer by layer, making classification, recognition, and prediction easier and more accurate. In recent years, deep learning has played an increasingly important role in artificial intelligence fields, such as image and natural language processing, with significant social value and economic benefits. WiMi's 3D target recognition algorithm is based on a large amount of training data and learns features layer by layer from a large amount of data to fully extract the features of 3D target data. To a large extent, the algorithm can retain the characteristics of 3D target image quality, thus fully expressing the high-level semantic information in the image, greatly enhancing the detection accuracy and improving the effectiveness. At the same time, the algorithm improves its applicability in multiple types of complex tasks and performs better in complex tasks. The algorithm can thoroughly learn the features in the sample data. And the trained model can detect and recognize various types of targets, speeding up the 3D target detection and recognition and improving the accuracy rate. With the progress of 3D data acquisition technology, the enhancement of computing power, the development of deep learning technology, and the increase in application demand, the research and application of 3D vision technology have received more and more attention. 3D target detection and recognition is the crucial technology and the basis for machines to understand and interact with the world. WiMi will continue to expand its deep learning-based 3D target recognition algorithm in the field of application. About WIMI Hologram Cloud WIMI Hologram Cloud, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIMI) is a holographic cloud comprehensive technical solution provider that focuses on professional areas including holographic AR automotive HUD software, 3D holographic pulse LiDAR, head-mounted light field holographic equipment, holographic semiconductor, holographic cloud software, holographic car navigation and others. Its services and holographic AR technologies include holographic AR automotive application, 3D holographic pulse LiDAR technology, holographic vision semiconductor technology, holographic software development, holographic AR advertising technology, holographic AR entertainment technology, holographic ARSDK payment, interactive holographic communication and other holographic AR technologies.
		  Safe Harbor Statements This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," "future," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," and similar statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Company's beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Among other things, the business outlook and quotations from management in this press release and the Company's strategic and operational plans contain forward−looking statements. The Company may also make written or oral forward−looking statements in its periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Forms 20−F and 6−K, in its annual report to shareholders, in press releases, and other written materials, and in oral statements made by its officers, directors or employees to third parties. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward−looking statement, including but not limited to the following: the Company's goals and strategies; the Company's future business development, financial condition, and results of operations; the expected growth of the AR holographic industry; and the Company's expectations regarding demand for and market acceptance of its products and services. Further information regarding these and other risks is included in the Company's annual report on Form 20-F and the current report on Form 6-K and other documents filed with the SEC. All information provided in this press release is as of the date of this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as required under applicable laws.    View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wimi-develops-deep-learning-based-3d-target-recognition-algorithm-system-301786829.html
  SOURCE  WiMi Hologram Cloud Inc. Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks