Availability:
                        										Hattiesburg and Online Options A degree in construction management teaches graduates how to plan and manage the work
                        flow, personnel, equipment, and processes required to safely and ethically construct
                        a project on time and within budget using best practices and current technology. Our
                        graduates are high in demand in all sectors of the construction industry. The Construction Management program is accredited by the American Council for Construction
                        Education (ACCE). More Accreditation Information Request info Apply Students complete courses that include: Construction Management students complete a 300 hour internship with a host company
                        in the construction industry. The internship is typically completed in the summer
                        and often leads to a full-time job offer after the student graduates. Construction Management students are provided opportunities to visit active job sites
                        during classroom excursions and participate in a summer internship to experience the
                        work environment they will enter upon graduation. The faculty also lead our students
                        in competing in national competitions offered through professional organizations such
                        as the Design-Build Institute of America, the Associated Schools of Construction,
                        the Associated Builders & Contractors, and the Associated General Contractors. Construction Management students have more than 20 scholarships specific to their
                        program of study. Students should apply through the "Golden Opportunities" GO System through the USM Foundation. Applications are typically accepted mid-December through
                        mid-February. For questions please contact the Director Dr.%20Emre%20Bayraktar.   View Online Program Details School of Construction and Design Chain Technology Building, TEC 242Hattiesburg Campus Campus Campus Map EmailconstructionanddesignFREEMississippi Phone601.266.4902  Request More InformationBegin Your Application 118 College DriveHattiesburg, MS 39406-0001 601.266.1000 Contact Us Hattiesburg Campus Map 730 East Beach BoulevardLong Beach, MS 39560 228.865.4500 Contact Us Gulf Park Campus Map © 2024 The University of Southern Mississippi. All rights reserved. 