Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 13 Mar, 2023, 13:00 GMT Share this article LONDON, March 13, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The EY organization today announces an alliance between o9 Solutions, a pioneer in advanced planning and supply chain management software solutions, and Ernst & Young LLP (EY US) to provide advanced supply chain planning solutions backed by artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), big data and cloud computing. With today's rapid technological advancements, organizations must reinvent how they operate and do business. The EY–o9 Solutions Alliance helps next-generation global enterprises in adopting integrated business planning solutions and modernizing their core supply chain, commercial and profit and loss functions. The Alliance combines o9 Solutions' AI- and ML-supported planning, analytics and data platform, known as the Digital Brain, with the deep supply chain knowledge, system integration and data science capabilities of EY US. The o9 Solutions' enterprise software platform unifies business processes, transforming traditionally slow and siloed planning functions into integrated and "intelligent" planning. Together, EY US and o9 Solutions support clients with system integration, sprint execution, program management, governance and change management. Through this Alliance, EY US and o9 Solutions will help clients detect early risks across the supply chain and make intelligent business decisions. Rajesh Rao, EY–o9 Solutions Alliance Leader, Ernst & Young LLP, says: "We are thrilled to be cultivating this relationship with o9 Solutions, which will help us to transform our supply chain client engagements. This Alliance provides a fit-for-purpose, configurable technology platform designed for quick deployment and agile implementation via the cloud. With this Alliance, clients can have faster, more intelligent planning and business decision-making to help improve business outcomes." Tanguy Caillet, Executive Vice President, Growth Markets and Global Alliances, o9 Solutions, says: "We're pleased to build a collaborative relationship with EY US, a trusted collaborator for businesses worldwide, to transform and digitalize the planning organizations and decision-making processes of our respective customers using the o9 Digital Brain platform. We look forward to providing, with EY US, robust business planning transformation that helps organizations gain the business insights and decision-making tools necessary to move their business forward." For more information, visit ey.com/alliances. Notes to Editors About EYEY exists to build a better working world, helping to create long-term value for clients, people and society and build trust in the capital markets. Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in over 150 countries provide trust through assurance and help clients grow, transform and operate. Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy, tax and transactions, EY teams ask better questions to find new answers for the complex issues facing our world today. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. EY member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. This news release has been issued by EYGM Limited, a member of the global EY organization that also does not provide any services to clients. About o9 Solutionso9 Solutions is a leading AI-powered platform for integrated business planning and decision-making for the enterprise. Whether it is driving demand, aligning demand and supply, or optimizing commercial initiatives, any planning process can be made faster and smarter with o9's AI-powered digital solutions. o9 brings together technology innovations—such as graph-based enterprise modeling, big data analytics, advanced algorithms for scenario planning, collaborative portals, easy-to-use interfaces and cloud-based delivery—into one platform. For more information, please visit www.o9solutions.com. Logo - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1721690/EY_Logo.jpg  Today EY announced the appointment of a new EY Global Independent Non-Executive (INE), Duane M. DesParte, who will join the EY Global Governance... The EY organization today announces an alliance between SAP Fioneer, a world-class software solution provider for financial services, and EY ifb SE... Computer & Electronics Computer Software Computer Software Data Analytics