Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 The integrated oil and gas major is feeling the impact of global demand concerns. Shares of Exxon Mobil (XOM 0.30%) were falling 2.8% at 10:58 a.m. Friday after pricing for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) tumbled as inventories of crude oil rose and the economic outlook became dicier. Higher-than-expected economic metrics, such as the Producer Price Index, raised the specter of the Federal Reserve continuing its aggressive policy of raising interest rates, which could push the economy into a recession. The pending release of more oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and higher-than-anticipated inventories pushed WTI prices down to about $75 per barrel, a 3.5% decline from yesterday. Image source: Getty Images. Rising inventories hint at a lack of demand, even as the International Energy Agency forecasts demand will actually hit record levels this year primarily due to China's voracious appetite. The country is expected to account for half of all global demand for oil. Also, the Department of Energy is scheduled to release up to 26 million barrels of oil from the SPR, the world's largest supply of emergency crude oil. While the current release is mandated by law, it will still pressure prices lower. Over the past year there has been an unprecedented release of oil reserves to combat high energy prices. A wobbly economy and depressed oil pricing trends are bound to cause the stocks of oil giants like Exxon to trade lower. While most of Exxon's revenue is realized from international operations, it still has significant production and refining operations in the U.S. to feel the effects of domestic policy decisions. Rich Duprey has positions in ExxonMobil. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.