We would like to use cookies to collect information about how you use ons.gov.uk. We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve our services. 
You’ve accepted all cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
Hide
 

Data and analysis from Census 2021
 
Estimates of short-term indicators of investment in non-financial assets; business investment and asset and sector breakdowns of total gross fixed capital formation.
 This is the latest release.
View previous releases 
Contact: Email Gross Capital Formation team
 
Release date: 15 August 2024
 
Next release: 30 September 2024
 

Print this 
Statistical bulletin



 

Download as PDF


 UK business investment fell by 0.1% in Quarter 2 (Apr to Jun) 2024 and is 1.1.% below the level in the same quarter a year ago. This release contains datasets for Quarter 2 2024 business investment provisional results; for further commentary on these data please see our GDP first quarterly estimate, UK: April to June 2024 bulletin. Following an accessibility review, we are updating our data tables in line with the Accessibility statement for the Office for National Statistics in the Quarter 2 2024 revised release to be published on 30 September 2024. This will update the formats of our tables to meet accessibility requirements, but the data content will remain unchanged. 
Gross fixed capital formation - by sector and asset Dataset | 15 August 2024  Sector and asset breakdowns of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), including business investment and revisions, in current prices and chained volume measures, non-seasonally adjusted and seasonally adjusted, UK.Quarterly Stocks Survey (QSS) and Capital Assets Survey (QCAS) Textual Data Analysis Dataset | Released 15 August 2024  The indicators and analysis in this dataset are based on qualitative responses from comments left by responding businesses to both our Quarterly Acquisitions and Disposals of Capital Assets Survey (QCAS) and Quarterly Stocks Survey (QSS).Annual Gross fixed capital formation - by sector and asset Dataset | Released 31 October 2023  Annual sector and asset breakdowns of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), in current prices and chained volume measures, non-seasonally adjusted and seasonally adjusted, UK. 

 Gross fixed capital formation - by sector and asset Dataset | 15 August 2024  Sector and asset breakdowns of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), including business investment and revisions, in current prices and chained volume measures, non-seasonally adjusted and seasonally adjusted, UK. Quarterly Stocks Survey (QSS) and Capital Assets Survey (QCAS) Textual Data Analysis Dataset | Released 15 August 2024  The indicators and analysis in this dataset are based on qualitative responses from comments left by responding businesses to both our Quarterly Acquisitions and Disposals of Capital Assets Survey (QCAS) and Quarterly Stocks Survey (QSS). Annual Gross fixed capital formation - by sector and asset Dataset | Released 31 October 2023  Annual sector and asset breakdowns of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), in current prices and chained volume measures, non-seasonally adjusted and seasonally adjusted, UK.  Quality and methodology information on strengths, limitations, appropriate uses, and how the data were created is available in our Business investment Quality and Methodology Information (QMI). In line with the National Accounts Revisions Policy, there are no periods open for revision in this publication. All data within this bulletin, unless specified, are presented in chained volume measure (CVM). This means the effect of price changes has been removed (in other words, the data are deflated). In Quarter 2 (Apr to Jun) 2024, the Quarterly Acquisitions and Disposals of Capital Assets Survey (QCAS), the largest data source for gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) and business investment, had a response rate of 66.3% for estimates used in the provisional release. Large capital expenditure tends to be reported later in the data collection period than smaller capital expenditure. This means that larger expenditures are often included in the revised results but are not reported in time for the provisional results. This can lead to a tendency toward upward revisions in the later estimates for business investment and gross fixed capital formation (GFCF). Following investigation of the impact of this effect, from Quarter 3 (July to Sept) 2013, a bias adjustment was introduced in the provisional estimate. This bias adjustment is later removed in the revised release. This adjustment was suspended in Quarter 2 (Apr to June) 2020 because of uncertainties surrounding the effect of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. However, since Quarter 4 (Oct to Dec) 2021, after further investigation and analysis of its impact, the bias adjustment was reintroduced to business investment and GFCF. The bias adjustment for this provisional release is positive £1.2 billion. 
GDP First Quarterly Estimate, UK: April to June 2024 Released 15 August 2024  First quarterly estimate of gross domestic product (GDP). Contains current and constant price data on the value of goods and services to indicate the economic performance of the UK.The national balance sheet and capital stocks, preliminary estimates, UK - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 13 June 2024  Annual estimates of the market value of financial and non-financial assets for the UK, providing a measure of the nation's wealth.Capital stocks and fixed capital consumption, UK - Office for National Statistics Released 8 December 2023  Annual estimates of the value and types of non-financial assets used in the production of goods or services within the UK economy and their loss in value over time.Experimental regional gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) estimates by asset type, UK - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 8 December 2023  Gross fixed capital formation estimates broken down by asset type, international territorial levels and local authority districts.A short guide to gross fixed capital formation and business investment - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 25 May 2017  A useful background of how to interpret, compare and analyse statistics regarding gross fixed capital formation and business investment. 

 GDP First Quarterly Estimate, UK: April to June 2024 Released 15 August 2024  First quarterly estimate of gross domestic product (GDP). Contains current and constant price data on the value of goods and services to indicate the economic performance of the UK. The national balance sheet and capital stocks, preliminary estimates, UK - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 13 June 2024  Annual estimates of the market value of financial and non-financial assets for the UK, providing a measure of the nation's wealth. Capital stocks and fixed capital consumption, UK - Office for National Statistics Released 8 December 2023  Annual estimates of the value and types of non-financial assets used in the production of goods or services within the UK economy and their loss in value over time. Experimental regional gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) estimates by asset type, UK - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 8 December 2023  Gross fixed capital formation estimates broken down by asset type, international territorial levels and local authority districts. A short guide to gross fixed capital formation and business investment - Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) Released 25 May 2017  A useful background of how to interpret, compare and analyse statistics regarding gross fixed capital formation and business investment.  
Office for National Statistics (ONS), released 15 August 2024, ONS website, statistical bulletin, Business investment in the UK: April to June 2024 provisional results 

 Office for National Statistics (ONS), released 15 August 2024, ONS website, statistical bulletin, Business investment in the UK: April to June 2024 provisional results  
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
