If you previously used a social network to login to WRALSportsFan.com, click the “Forgot your password” link to reset your password. Murphy: College football looks quite different, except for top playoff hopefuls Gerber: 5 reasons to feel optimistic about the 2024 Carolina Panthers Football is back (kinda), Necas returns and greatness in Paris in the sports moments of the week Panthers host Jets in preseason game: Unclear whether Bryce Young, starters will play Panthers Playbook: Panthers, Bryce Young must show improvement against Jets Panthers, Jets scuffle in joint practice No. 24 NC State  is chasing a breakthrough moment Murphy: College football looks quite different, except for top playoff hopefuls NC State aims for CFP spot: Wolfpack must elevate from good to great under Dave Doeren The Tar Heels faded in past 2 years with QB Drake Maye. Now they must fix that issue without him UNC RB Hampton, three other ACC players earn AP preseason All-America honors Murphy: College football looks quite different, except for top playoff hopefuls Duke names Texas transfer Maalik Murphy starting QB Manny Diaz aims to keep Duke's upward trajectory Murphy: College football looks quite different, except for top playoff hopefuls Hurricanes Alumni Association works to grow local hockey community  Carolina Hurricanes president Doug Warf talks to Adam Gold PNC Arena renovation ideas add revenue streams, remodel exterior Everything to know about the controversy over Jordan Chiles' Olympic bronze medal Australian Olympic chief condemns 'bullying' online petition attacking Raygun's breaking credentials Analysis: Olympics with a short field delivers stars on the podium and compelling golf Apex Friendship beats Chapel Hill to move to 3-0 on the season Statewide Volleyball Rankings: Marvin Ridge, Ayden-Grifton, D.H. Conley climb into Top 10 Statewide Boys Soccer Rankings: Asheboro, Enka join HSOT Top 25 NC's Tommy Paul and American tennis are having a moment at the Australian Open Stackhouse, Barnes, Strange highlight 2023 NC Sports HOF class 
                        Posted November 22, 2022 2:13 p.m. EST
                     Norfolk, Va. — North Carolina Central University head coach Trei Oliver is the 2022 Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference Football Coach of the Year, the MEAC announced on Tuesday, Nov. 22. In his third season as head football coach at his alma mater, Oliver has led the Eagles to their first conference championship in six years and an overall record of 9-2, becoming just the sixth team in school history to win nine games in a season. NCCU captured non-conference FCS victories over North Carolina A&T, No. 25 New Hampshire, and Tennessee Tech to earn a No. 21 national ranking by the American Football Coaches Association on Nov. 21. Among the NCAA Division I-FCS statistical leaders, NCCU tops the nation in third down conversions (57.3%) and red zone defense (64.7%), and ranks sixth in the country in scoring offense with a MEAC-high average of 38.4 points per game. The MEAC champions now prepare to take on the winner of the SWAC championship game in the Cricket Celebration Bowl on Dec. 17 in Atlanta. Visit TheCelebrationBowl.com for ticket and hotel information. On Monday (Nov. 21), Stats Perform announced Oliver among 16 FCS finalists for the 2022 Eddie Robinson Award, which is presented to the national coach of the year in college football's Division I subdivision. Copyright  2022 North Carolina Central University.  All rights reserved.  ©2024  Capitol Broadcasting Company, Inc.