Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Apex Legends is a battle royale game with unique class-based gameplay and a constant rotation of three maps that change up the gameplay between seasons. While every legend in Apex Legends is balanced pretty well (even after Caustic's recent NOX gas nerf) there are some that just perform better on certain maps. While King's Canyon is a pretty open map, and World's Edge is a good blend of indoor and outdoor areas, Olympus falls somewhere in-between.
                         Olympus is a gigantic map with lots of dense areas of buildings spread out across the map. Between these dense areas are wide-open spaces, which makes use of the Olympus-only Trident vehicles a must for any player who wants to traverse the terrain quickly. Legends who can take advantage of the densely packed loot areas or who can effectively navigate the lush terrain thrive on Olympus, as well as champions who work effectively at middle-to-long distances.
      Updated March 2, 2023 by Aly Azmy: Season 16 has largely changed the meta and has buffed many legends and nerfed others. Buffed legends, such as Wraith and Pathfinder, gained an improved ultimate that aids the team. Nerfed legends include Seer, who was dethroned with the update. Tweaked legends include Bloodhound who play differently but are still powerful in Olympus. Newer legends such as Newcastle and Catalyst both have ultimates that work flawlessly in the open terrain of Olympus.
      RELATED: Apex Legends: Every Legend, Ranked (2021)
                     Having debuted in Season 8, Fuse is the most recent legend added to Apex Legends and he more than packs a punch. On Olympus, legends who have a good ability to catch opponents unawares and who can effectively fight at mid-range thrive. Fuse's Knuckle Cluster tactical ability recharges quickly and can do massive damage to multiple enemies with good aim. His passive Grenadier lets him carry twice as many grenades as a normal legend – and he can throw them faster and more accurately too.
                         Fuse's ultimate Motherlode ability, like Horizon's Black Hole, is very synergistic with other legends' ultimates. It's effective as both a way to wall off an area and catch enemies in the ring of fire to take massive damage. Olympus is a great map for Fuse because of its dense urban areas where being able to zone enemies is a huge factor in team fights.
                         With the open outdoors of Olympus and little vertical obstruction seen on the map, Newcastle’s ultimate has time to shine. Using his ultimate will propel players onto their teammates far away, saving them from a potential ambush or hairy situation.
      RELATED:
      Apex Legends: How To Play Newcastle
                     Newcastle’s revive ability allows players to direct downed players to a safer area and lead to a safe revive; however, this is difficult to pull off in close-quarter engagements and is easier for long-ranged fights. Owning a gold knockdown shield will make players going for risky revives worth it due to the increased health and shields.
                         Lifeline is an all-around great legend who provides a lot of utility to any squad composition she is part of. On Olympus, though, the chance of being third-squadded while calling down her ultimate feels much smaller. Still, her passive and tactical Healing DOC Drone are as useful as on any map. Lifeline's passive lets her revive teammates without pausing a fight, and the player is shielded while they are being revived.
                         The healing DOC drone is a bit mediocre compared to some other tactical abilities in the game; it's outclassed by a handful of syringes or a single medkit, after all. However, her ability to passively revive teammates is perhaps the most useful passives in the game, and her Lifeline Package ultimate can be used pretty freely in the open areas of the map.
                         Wraith’s increased portal size makes her more valuable to her team in Olympus, as it now has more options for positioning. Portals are a great way to initiate a quick team rotation or reposition without risking the team. Unlike Pathfinder’s ultimate, teammates using Wraith’s portal do not take damage while phasing. 
      RELATED: Apex Legends: Everything You Need To Know About Fuse
                     Her tactical will allow players to quickly disengage from fights as Olympus tends to have a lot of open field areas that are risky to cross. Lastly, her passive will keep players alert for any teams aiming at her. The latest buff will keep Wraith among the more popular legends.
      Season 16 buffed many legends, especially Pathfinder. Pathfinder's ultimate has significantly improved, opening up rotations that previously would have been impossible. His ultimate received a distance increase alongside speed increases. The additional speed increase makes traveling with his zipline safer as it is harder for enemies to shoot at. 
                         The ultimate will be essential in Olympus as it is an easy method to traverse many of the open terrain seen on the map. Quick team rotation options allow players to leave messy situations faster and create distance fast.
                         It's sort of fitting that Horizon is one of the best legends on Olympus as the map and the legend were both introduced right at the same time. Horizon is a legend whose tactical ability Gravity Lift is just as perfect for navigating the wide-open areas as it is for getting up to heights that dot the map. Her ultimate Black Hole is perfect for indoor situations and offers a lot of synergy with other legend's ultimates.
                         Some locations in Olympus that offer Horizon's tactical the chance to thrive include the Grow Towers (which can be ascended quickly), and The Estates (which gives her a height advantage). It can be used in any situation where getting the whole team to a better vantage point is a priority, which happens a lot on Olympus. Her passive Spacewalk ability is handy but doesn't provide any huge bonus to her prowess in combat situations.
                         The density of loot on Olympus makes it one of Loba's best maps. While King's Canyon has loot scattered all over the place, Olympus' loot is usually centered within its various locales, with few supply bins available for players between major locations. Her ultimate ability Black Market lets her pull as much ammo as she wants and up to two items from the nearby area. It's an ultimate with a short recharge time, and Olympus has many locations where gold items are practically guaranteed.
      RELATED: Apex Legends: Pro Tips For Playing As Loba
                     Loba's tactical Burglar's Best Friend lets her teleport to hard-to-reach areas by throwing her bracelet. This bracelet takes time to land, so it's not an instant escape, but more importantly, it can be used to trick enemies who don't see where the bracelet lands. Her passive ability Eye for Quality reveals epic and legendary loot through walls and chests – this allows Loba to guide the team away from useless addons and towards legendaries very effectively.
                         Information on demand is vital to any team on a map such as Olympus, and knowing the locations of nearby enemies is vital. Knowing enemy locations will aid players in avoiding potential ambushes or third parties. Seer's passive has incredible potential for scouting out enemies, but players need to be cautious, as it is audible to enemy players.
      RELATED:
      Apex Legends: Seer Guide
                     Seer’s tactical easily adapts to the linear terrain of Olympus, causing players to have an easier time predicting enemy positions and halting revives and heals. His ultimate is vital in fights as it causes enemies to reveal themselves.
                         Catalyst is different from other defense legends as she can work offensively, and in other situations play for defense. Her ability to play around doors allows her to take advantage of every door on Olympus and create safe havens for her team. Her tactical can dissuade an enemy team from pushing from a specific direction, allowing Catalyst to control entry points.
                         Olympus is full of open spaces which normally are a nightmare for defense legends, but Catalyst’s ultimate has a workaround. Her ultimate allows her team to safely move in an open area and conceal themselves through her ultimate.
                         Bloodhound is an all-around great legend who beats out Crypto on Olympus for its lack of verticality and more focus on flat-area fights. On a map like World's Edge having the height and sight advantage is a huge deal, but on Olympus being able to see what's ahead of the team is more important than what's below or above. Bloodhound's tactical Eye Of The Allfather reveals enemies and traps in front of Bloodhound for a very long distance and can be used while running or in combat.
                         Bloodhound's ability to see enemy tracks is a huge boost in Olympus too, as the wide-open spaces often force teams to come out of hiding and trek across open land. Bloodhound can see exactly where enemy teams left with their White Raven and can help the team decide to avoid or engage in situations. Bloodhound's ultimate lets them move faster, see their enemies in red, and use their tactical much more often over the duration – it's handy, but the highlight is Bloodhound's command of the information game.
      MORE: Great Team Compositions In Apex Legends
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Gamers can unlock a free Fortnite skin during Chapter 5 Season 4 - here's how it works. A Red Dead Redemption 2 fan thinks there is a Harry Potter reference in the game involving John Marston's scar that is hiding in plain sight. This antagonist takes advantage of one of Captain Kirk's most iconic traits to offer a grim subversion of a common space fantasy. This slightly obscure Godzilla monster is a rare ally in the fight against larger foes. The PC port of Final Fantasy 16 finally gets an official release date almost a year after its original confirmation for the platform. Hollow Knight: Silksong is a game intended to be huge in scale, meaning that one aspect of its lore will likely benefit a lot from its size. The world of Cyberpunk 2077 has only been touched on, and anime is the perfect medium to give fans more of it.