Login Only eight remain. Updated on June 14, 3:52 p.m. (GMT+8): Added qualified teams. The top eight teams at VCT Masters Tokyo will vie for Valorant glory when the competition shifts to the playoffs on June 16. Masters Tokyo playoffs will feature the top-seeded teams from the Pacific, Americas, and EMEA regions who advanced to the upper bracket quarterfinals when they won their respective international league. In addition, since Fnatic won VCT LOCK//IN, the runner-up in the EMEA League will join the international league champions in the upper bracket quarterfinals. The eight lower-seeded teams battled each other in the group stage for the four remaining playoff spots. The eight teams were split into two groups where they competed in a best-of-three double-elimination bracket. Evil Geniuses was the first team to qualify for the playoffs from Group A. The North American squad is on a hot streak, winning against FUT Esports 2-0 in their opening match. They then took a 2-0 victory over Korean powerhouse squad DRX in their group’s winners’ match. NRG Esports was the second team to qualify for the playoffs from Group B. Ardis “ardiis” Svarenieks defeated his former FunPlus Phoenix teammates when NRG won 2-1 against Natus Vincere in their opening match. The North American squad defeated T1 2-1 in the winners’ match. The final two playoff spots will be awarded to the winners of Group A and B’s decider match at the end of the group stage. The group stage will conclude on June 14. No matches will be played on June 15 as Masters Tokyo will take a short break. The matches will resume on Friday, June 16, the start of the playoffs. Masters Tokyo‘s playoffs will run from June 16 to 25. There will be a two-day break on June 22 and 23, followed by the finals on June 24 and 25. Valorant fans can watch VCT Masters Tokyo live on Riot Games’ official Twitch and YouTube. READ MORE: Exclusive: DRX’s super democratic way of making in-game decisions is most unusual Sign up for a free ONE Esports account and start engaging with other fans! You'll also receive a monthly newsletter and other goodies!