DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The "Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Services Market - Distribution by Scale of Operation, Method of Viral Clearance and Testing, End-User and Key Geographical Regions: Industry Trends and Global Forecasts, 2023-2035" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.
 
Viral clearance and viral testing refers to the detection and elimination of viral contaminants, using a wide array of methods, to ensure the product's safety for human use. Over the past few years, viral clearance and viral testing has emerged as one of the key pre-requisites for biopharmaceutical regulatory approvals. It is worth mentioning that, till date, over 630 biologics have already been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while more than 8,000 biopharmaceuticals are in the clinical evaluation process. This increased number of approvals and ongoing clinical trials in the biopharmaceutical industry has resulted in a rise in the demand for such studies.
 
Benefits and Growing Demand for Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Services
 
Viral clearance and testing studies have emerged as a mandatory step for regulatory submissions of biologics for commercial applications. These studies result in streamlined manufacturing of contamination free / safe products and on-time delivery of biologics. Owing to this, the demand for these services has increased significantly. It is worth highlighting that, with the continuous revision of the regulatory guidelines, viral clearance and testing studies are already amongst the most essential steps in the manufacturing of biologics, including antibodies, blood products, cell and gene therapies, hormones, recombinant proteins, therapeutic proteins and vaccines.
 
Need for Outsourcing Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Studies
 
The rise of biologics has resulted in an increasing demand for viral clearance and testing studies. However, these studies are quite cost intensive, time-consuming and follow stringent regulatory guidelines. In addition, they require specialized technical skills and good scientific expertise. This has prompted the biopharmaceutical developers to outsource these studies to the service providers, which have aseptic laboratories, GMP-certified facilities and specialized equipment in accordance with the requirements of regulatory authorities.
 
Current Market Landscape of Viral Clearance and Testing Service Providers
 
The viral clearance and viral testing service providers landscape features a mix of large, mid-sized and small companies, which have the required expertise to offer various services for the viral clearance and testing of biologics, across the manufacturing and purification stages. It is worth highlighting that majority of the service providers are large companies. Recent developments in this segment of the biopharmaceutical industry indicate that the service providers are upgrading their capabilities and infrastructure to accommodate the current and anticipated demand for these services.
 
Key Drivers in the Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Services Market
 
Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, viral clearance and viral testing services for biopharmaceuticals have garnered significant attention. In addition, the success of next-generation sequencing in efficiently detecting a wide variety of viruses has created an enormous need for the consistent usage of such advanced tools / methods in viral clearance and testing studies. In the coming decade, several promising techniques, specifically those exhibiting enhanced efficacy, are anticipated to develop at a faster rate.
 
Moreover, considering the active involvement of large players as well as the new entrants, the viral clearance and testing services market is likely to witness healthy growth. Further, to address the growing demand for these services, various large players have undertaken several initiatives, including strengthening their respective service portfolios, entering into strategic deals, and expanding their facility and capacity.
 
Market Size of the Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Services Market
 
Driven by the rising interest in research and development activities and the demand for viral clearance and testing services, the future opportunities and growth associated with this market are anticipated to witness a noteworthy growth in the foreseen future. Specifically, in terms of end-users, the market is anticipated to be driven by biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry. In addition, presently, more than 60% of the market is captured by players based in North America and Europe.
 
Key Players in the Viral Clearance and Viral Testing Services Market
 
Examples of key players engaged in this domain (which have also been captured in this report) include Charles River Laboratories, Creative Biolabs, Eurofins Scientific, Microbac Laboratories, MilliporeSigma, Nelson Labs, Syngene International, Texcell, Vironova and WuXi Biologics.
 
Scope of the Report
 
The study presents an in-depth analysis of the various firms / organizations that are engaged in this domain, across different segments.
 
Amongst other elements, the report includes:
 
Frequently Asked Questions
 
Question 1: What is viral contamination in biopharmaceutical industry?
 
Answer: Viral contamination is a serious threat to the biopharmaceutical industry; it occurs when the biologics are infected by the endogenous and adventitious viruses, during the production process. The potential sources of these viruses include cell lines, blood, hormones and other animal or human derived unprocessed material.
 
Question 2: How many players are providing services related to viral clearance and viral testing?
 
Answer: Presently, more than 30 companies offer various services related to viral clearance and testing, including viral testing services (such as cell bank testing, raw material testing, unprocessed bulk testing and end of production process testing) and viral clearance services (such as several virus inactivation and removal methods). In addition, few service providers offer services for the specialized detection and removal of prions and transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE).
 
Question 3: How many patents, related to viral clearance and viral testing, have been filed / granted in the last few years?
 
Answer: More than 260 patents, related to viral clearance and viral testing, have been filed / granted in the last few years. It is worth mentioning that most of the patents have been filed by industry players and are focused on viral removal methods and techniques.
 
Question 4: What is the partnership and collaboration trend in viral clearance and viral testing services domain?
 
Answer: Currently, mergers and acquisitions are the most preferred type of partnership models adopted by the stakeholders in this domain. This is followed by service agreements, service alliances and technology assessment agreements.
 
Question 5: Which segment is likely to have the largest share in the viral clearance and viral testing services market?
 
Answer: Presently, viral removal dominates the viral clearance and testing services market. This can be attributed to the ongoing innovations and advancements in viral removal techniques, such as chromatography, filtration, and precipitation.
 
Question 6: What are the recent developments in the viral clearance and viral testing services market?
 
Answer: Viral clearance and testing service providers have made significant investments to expand their respective capabilities through the incorporation of advanced methods, technologies, and platforms; this is required for attracting a client base across different geographies. In addition, players have also inked a number of partnerships to enhance their expertise, technology and operations portfolio.
 
Question 7: Which geographical segment has the highest growth rate in viral clearance and viral testing services market?
 
Answer: Europe is likely to grow at the highest CAGR, during the period 2023- 2035.
 
A Selection of Companies Mentioned
 
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/w2ylty-clearance?w=4
 
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.comFor E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./ CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.