 Want to jump straight to the best? Benzinga readers love CenterPoint Securities for trade tools & stock trading. Stock trading software is a set of computer programs that facilitate trading in financial instruments such as stocks and currencies. But it can also help improve you stock-picking decisions through fundamental and technical analysis features. Some software also allows transaction processing. Brokerages offer trading software either for free or for discounted pricing. Sometimes it is offered as an incentive to elicit a certain quantity of trading volumes. Independent vendors also supply software to assist traders. Start with our guide to compare stock trading software programs and find a platform to work for you. Working with the right stock trading software to meet your investing needs is important. Check out who made the list below and start vetting the best option for you. Market news is important for every investor. When you sign up for Benzinga Pro, you can see that market news in real time, set up screeners, check out of the chart room and study the assets that make up your portfolio. Plus, you can sign up for Benzinga Pro to hear the Audio Squawk broadcast every day, getting the information that is pressing right now. With accurate and time information, you can make wise decisions and build your portfolio with Benzinga’s help. Why We Picked It: Benzinga Pro lets you research your whole portfolio in one place so that you can get the insights you need and start making decisions. You also get access to advanced charts, a massive range of indicators and specialized data that will allow you to check trends and decide exactly what you should be investing in. When you use CenterPoint Securities, you gain direct access to the markets and powerful trading software for advanced, high-volume, momentum and short traders. The platform has a quality customer service team, and it offers advanced charting, advanced order routing, level 2 order management, trade Ideas, built-in scanners and custom alerts, and options trades. As you manage a large portfolio, you can see the information you need along with a full look at your portfolio. Using CenterPoint Securities also ensures that you have access to a massive short inventory so that you can invest in as many ways as you like.   Why We Picked It: CenterPoint Securities offers professional-grade trading tools and platforms, including its proprietary CenterPoint Trader and access to Sterling Trader Pro and DAS Trader. CenterPoint Securities also stands out for its competitive commissions, starting at $0.004 per share with a $1 minimum and its ability to offer up to 6:1 intraday leverage for qualified accounts. E*TRADE isn't just a stock trading platform. It ranks among some of Benzinga's favorite stock trading brokerages for a number of reasons, namely its access to real-time data, research and analysis in its brokerage account. After all, nothing is more powerful than historical and real-time data that empowers you to act on the best stock trades possible. E*TRADE also offers an array of educational resources: webinars, blog posts and news. The platform offers $0 commissions on online U.S.-listed stock, ETF and options trades, with options contracts priced at $0.65 per contract. Why We Picked It: E*TRADE stands out as a top stock trading platform due to its robust research tools and comprehensive educational resources, catering to both novice and experienced investors.  E*TRADE's mobile app, Power E*TRADE, provides advanced features like real-time market data, risk-reward analysis and multi-leg options trading, making it a versatile choice for traders on the go. Streetbeat is a fintech firm that is looking to make it easier to invest by mixing fintech innovations and software. Located in Palo Alto, the firm has a mobile app that offers self-trading services and auto trading.  You can invest in a range of assets like stocks and ETFs, but you can also invest in crypto, allowing the platform to do much of the work for you. The client-focused approach from the firm makes it more palatable for most investors, and it also offers: Remember, though, as useful as this platform is, your management fees could rise depending on the size of your portfolio. Either way, you get the support you need and can enhance your portfolio without doing all the math on your own.  Why We Picked It: Streetbeat offers a unique combination of automated investing and social trading features. The software provides users with a range of pre-built portfolios tailored to different risk tolerances and investment goals, as well as the option to create custom portfolios. Additionally, Streetbeat's social trading aspect allows users to follow and copy the trades of top-performing investors on the platform, potentially benefiting from their expertise. Moomoo is an intuitive investment and trading platform with pro-grade, easy-to-use tools, data, and insights. Offering a pro-level trading experience for those of all levels of expertise. When you sign up, user can enjoy these features : You can reach out to the customer support team during the trading day via phone or email. For those who want the DIY approach, you can review the FAQs in the Help Center at any time. There is also a large of educational tools, research options and a community with more than 20 million users across the globe. Why We Picked It: Moomoo distinguishes itself with advanced charting tools, including over 60 technical indicators and drawing tools, making it particularly appealing to technical analysts. Additionally, its paper trading feature allows users to practice strategies risk-free with $1 million in virtual cash RoboForex is a global multi-asset trading platform that runs on MT4 and MT5. It operates in various countries and claims more than 10,000 users. Traders can trade forex and contracts for difference (CFDs) — and do so in multiple languages. The platform was started in 2009 and is located in Belize. Why We Picked It: RoboForex offers multiple account types to suit different trading styles, including its popular ECN accounts. The company's commitment to technology is evident in its mobile trading app and the innovative CopyFX social trading system. Webull is a brokerage that is accessed through its mobile app. It features commission-free stock and exchange-traded fund (ETF) trading.  The broker is tailored towards intermediate and experienced self-directed investors and traders. It is most well-known for its commission-free structure which allows active traders to save a considerable amount on commissions compared to others. Webull's platform allows you to analyze recommendations, revenue and historical earnings per share data. You can also access key statistics, insider trades, stock information such as earnings, dividends and stock splits and news feeds.  It offers trading on more than 5,000 U.S. stocks and ETFs in the United States. However, Webull doesn't support stock options, over-the-counter stocks, mutual funds, bonds or cryptocurrencies, which is somewhat limiting. Why We Picked It: Webull stands out with its advanced charting tools, including over 50 technical indicators and drawing tools. Webull's mobile app is particularly noteworthy, providing real-time market data, customizable watchlists and the ability to execute trades quickly. From proven, prebuilt strategies and indicators to professional consulting for advanced traders who build their own trading scripts, Zen Trading Strategies offers services for algo traders of all skill levels. With free trials, tiered pricing options, and a wide variety of plans, this company aims to offer something that fits every budget and every trading style. For algorithmic trading or any kind of high-frequency trading, having a solid, backtested trading strategy, complete with entry and exit signals and a risk management framework, is key to success. Most traders spend years learning the markets and learning how to build trading scripts—and lose a bunch of money in the process—before finding one that works consistently.  With Zen Trading, investors can make use of professionally developed strategies, built by a quantitative algorithmic fund that’s successfully trading the markets with those same strategies. Zen Trading does all the leg work for you, so you can simply customize it to the timeframe and assets you trade.  Why We Picked It: Zen Trading offers its proprietary "ZenScan" technology, which analyzes over 10,000 stocks across global markets every minute, identifying potential opportunities based on technical indicators and market sentiment. TradeZero is an online trading platform that allows you to use the app or your desktop, offers 24/7 customer service and valuable account options. You can use the platform for free, or you can step up to ZeroPro for a reasonable monthly payment of just $59.  With the help of TradeZero, you can invest in any asset you like from stocks to options, futures and much more. Trading fees are laid out beautifully, affordable and easy to understand. Plus, the platform works just like the powerful trading software employed by professionals and day traders. Why We Picked It:  TradeZero has short selling capabilities. The platform provides a "short locate" feature, allowing traders to find and borrow shares for short selling, even for hard-to-borrow stocks. This service is available from 8:00 PM ET to 8:00 AM ET, giving traders ample time to prepare for the next trading day. When you start investing, you will find that your priorities change based on the types of things you like to invest in. However, it can be hard to collect information on those assets. This is why you would want to use Global Trading Software.  The platform works well for all types of investors, from beginners to advanced traders. Plus, you can: Why We Picked It: Global Trading Software offers real-time market data from over 50 global exchanges, including NYSE, NASDAQ and LSE, with updates as frequent as every 100 milliseconds. he software also integrates seamlessly with popular brokers like TD Ameritrade and Interactive Brokers, facilitating quick trade execution. Not sure where to start? Take a look at our must-have criteria for the best stock trading software. Real-time data is data and information instantaneously provided or with a short delay from the time of dissemination of information. Although many websites promise free real-time quotes, they invariably might be delayed by up to 20 minutes.  Real-time data is important for traders, as even a small variance between the quote and the actual price of the security may lead to profit trimming or even a loss.  Historical quotes are also important, as the price of a security moves in identifiable patterns and trends which tend to repeat over time. In active trading, as opposed to a long-term buy-and-hold strategy, traders use several strategies, including day trading and swing trading. In day trading, the position is closed out within the same day. Swing trading involves holding a security for one to several days in a bid to profit on the swings or price changes. Usually, swing traders use some set rules drawn up based on fundamental or technical analysis, or both. Trading software offers traders the power to control and manage open positions. Some of the order types are market order (buy/sell at current price) or pending order (where transaction goes through at a predetermined price). A pending order can be a buy limit, buy stop, sell limit or sell stop. A trader can also attach a stop loss or take profit order to a pending order.   The market is fickle and it moves on a host of developments, including economics, geopolitics and corporate news. Since stocks are highly volatile, so profit-making requires traders to react instantaneously to market-moving news through a live news source.  Stock screeners are tools used by traders to filter stocks based on some user-defined criteria, such as market capitalization, price, volume, sector, industry, P/E ratio, dividend yield and various technical indicators. By using stock screeners, you can save time and focus on stocks that meet their requirements. This allows testing of a given trading strategy using historical data, which serves as a method for verifying the effectiveness of the strategy. It is simulating the trading strategy over a specific period of time and then analyzing the results from the perspective of return and risk. Specific trading needs require you to answer a few questions about yourself. Are you a long- or short term investing/day trader? A swing trader/quantitative trader or scalper using automated trading software? For the most part, some things remain consistent: Determine your trading priorities and use our guide to compare stock trading software options to open your next trading account. The market offers a platform to fit every need. Start with our top picks to find your stock trading software to boost your investment management strategies and trading decisions. You might also consider trying TradeStation because the platform makes it easy to open an account, begin trading and gain access to the platforms that you need to be successful. You can trade in stocks, yes, but you can also trade ETFs, futures, options, mutual funds and much more. You can look through all the information you need, trade in a style with which you’re comfortable and maintain your account with confidence. There are several, including Interactive Brokers and Webull. Professionals are using Benzinga Pro and TradeStation. CenterPoint Securities is considered one of the best free trading softwares.