In an expected move, the Jets are picking up Aaron Rodgers’ $58.3 million option bonus for 2023, per NFL Network’s Ian Rapoport. Picking up the option was a formality, but there was some question as to whether the Packers would take on some of Rodgers’ salary this season. It looks like that will not be the case. For his 2023 salary, the #Jets picking up Aaron Rodgers’ already guaranteed option bonus of $58.3M means that it converts to a signing bonus for cap reasons — creating $43.7M of cap space and making his 2023 hit $15.7M. — Ian Rapoport (@RapSheet) April 25, 2023 Still, being that the $58 million is an option bonus, the Jets are able to spread that money out over the remaining four years of the contract. As a result, the cap number for Rodgers is just $15.79 million. At least that’s with the contract as it is now. Rodgers is expected to rework his contract. From last night on @SNYtv: Yes, the #Jets paid a lot. But when you see the contract Aaron Rodgers is about to sign, and realize he’s not one-and-done, it’s going to make a lot of sense. pic.twitter.com/QnAZC2DyTL — Connor Hughes (@Connor_J_Hughes) April 25, 2023 If Rodgers is indeed around for more than one year, the trade will be worth it. It will be interesting now to see what the contract structure looks like. We should find out sometime this week when the trade becomes official.   Story originally appeared on Jets Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal.