Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Overwatch 2's most recent gameplay mode, Starwatch, is a PvPvE experience that has players tackle objectives with AI companions and some unique gameplay modifiers, and unlike standard PvP Overwatch gameplay, the mode adds teammate health bars in player UI, meaning it's always present on your screen, and you don't have to turn to look at your teammates to see their health.
                         Not long after the mode launched, many in the Overwatch community began requesting for this UI element become something you can toggle on in standard PvP gameplay, with one particular post on Reddit receiving a ton of support. As many commenters in this post point out, such an addition would be particularly useful for healers, as they'll be constantly aware of which of their teammates needs healing even if they are turned in another direction, or are in a busy team fight.
      RELATED: Supports Are OP In Overwatch 2 Season 4, And I Love It
                     As many also accurately pointed out, this is far from the first time that developer Blizzard has added UI health bars for teammates. This was first done in 2016, in the early days of Overwatch PvE modes, and it has apparently been requested since then, but has yet to be added, leaving many players all the more frustrated and upset with Blizzard for not listening to player feedback.
                         Given the amount of time throughout which this has been requested, some fans feel certain that Blizzard knows the demands are there, but is purposefully ignoring them. However, for some, this is a good thing. Despite the original post being so popular, you also had some pushback from commenters that received a fair amount of upvotes as well, and they believe that adding this to standard PvP games would affect the metagame by reducing the need for "game sense."
                         Essentially, some say that adding this mode would make it so players, especially supports and tanks, would no longer need to be as aware of their surroundings, as they wouldn't have to check up on their teammates' health manually. This would potentially remove a skill gap of game awareness, which support players with more experience have accrued over many hours of gameplay.
                         Furthermore, it could make it so flanking and catching stray players off guard is no longer as useful, given that no matter where their teammates are or where they are looking, they'll immediately be informed when someone is being targeted.
                         Some retort that it's simply more information to the player, which is always a good thing, and that it could be left as an option, and the debate goes on and on. Clearly, it's not a black-and-white issue for the community, but it does seem that, regardless, Blizzard has no plans to add it in anyway.
      NEXT: Hollow Knight: Silksong Release Delayed Because "It's Gotten Quite Big"
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Sorry, we're closed.  Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. The Fallout TV show was one of the most entertaining and faithful gaming television adaptations, and here's what it did perfectly. Thankfully, it's just a two-week delay for some last-minute polishing.