Numerous things happened last week that warranted news notice. WITHIN NIGERIA has laboriously compiled a list of some of the most noteworthy national tales from all throughout Nigeria. On Friday, officials of the Department of State Security (DSS) arrested the suspended governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele. He was arrested shortly after President Bola Tinubu directed the office of the Secretary General of the Federation to issue his suspension letter. According to the president, Emefiele was suspended due to the ongoing investigation of his office and the planned reforms in the financial sector of the economy. Prior to Emefiele’s suspension, the DSS, on December 7, 2022, in an exparte application with reference no: FHC/ABJ/CS/2255/2022, sought an order to arrest the CBN Governor. The security agency accused Emefiele of financing terrorism, fraudulent activities and economic crimes of national security dimension. On Monday, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) decided to suspend the strike that was supposed to take place on Wednesday.  The choice was made after a meeting between federal government and organized labor officials on Monday night at the presidential villa to discuss the withdrawal of fuel subsidies. On Monday, the Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Isabo, Abeokuta commenced hearing of the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Ladi Adebutu, against Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC).  According to report, both the APC and the PDP mobilised their members to be at the tribunal for solidarity. However, political thugs stormed the venue of the tribunal with canes, otherwise known as pankere, attacking percieved opponents while police officers and other security agents watched. On Tuesday, a professor at the University of Ibadan identified as Opeyemi Isaac Ajewole was assassinated. WITHIN NIGERIA gathered that the don was killed while returning to his home in Ibadan’s Moniya area on Monday evening. It was also learned that his body has been deposited at UI Anatomy. On Monday, President Bola Tinubu met with ex-governors Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State.  Tinubu also met with Godswill Akpabio, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Senate presidency. The meeting took place at Abuja’s Presidential Villa. The agenda for the visit was unclear as of press time, but it could be related to the leadership of the 10th Assembly, which will be inaugurated this month. On Wednesday, President Bola Tinubu met with the state governors at the presidential villa, Abuja. 



 Despite having a meeting with the governors of his party on Friday, Tinubu’s meeting on Wednesday will be his first with state governors from all political parties. All governors were present for the meeting, which got underway at 12:36 p.m., with the exception of those from Kaduna, Katsina, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ekiti, Sokoto, Borno, Yobe, Gombe, and Katsina states. On Friday, President Bola Tinubu signed the electricity bill which was passed in July 2022 with the aim of repealing the Electricity and Power Sector Reform Act of 2005. As a result, the new law is now known as the Electricity Act, according to reliable sources.  The Electricity Act serves as a comprehensive legal and institutional framework for guiding the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) during the post-privatization phase. It consolidates all existing legislation related to the electricity supply sector and encourages private sector investments. On Friday, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state said he will not stop going to visit President Bola Tinubu at the Presidential Villa, Aso Rock, regardless of what anyone says. Makinde stated this at the flag-off of the dualisation of 8.3km Akobo, Ojurin/Odogbo Barracks, Olorunda Abas Junction on Friday. Makinde said, “As I go to Abuja to see the President, I know some people have been saying that since the inauguration of the new President, I have gone to Aso Rock about four times within a week. On Wednesday, ex-Osun governor Rauf Aregbesola has sought forgiveness from members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Osun Chapter and others who may be offended by his actions in the last four years. Aregbesola, who was Osun Governor between 2010 to 2018, handed over to Oyetola who served under him as Chief of Staff after winning the 2018 governorship election. He was opposed to Oyetola’s re-election and faulted the elders of the party for not chastising him (Oyetola) for reversing his policies. NEWS, MULTI MEDIA WITHIN NIGERIA is an online news media that focuses on authoritative reports, investigations and major headlines that springs from National issues, Politics, Metro, Entertainment; and Articles. 
Follow us on social media:   © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName 