In this article If you make a gain after selling a property, you'll pay 18% capital gains tax (CGT) as a basic-rate taxpayer, or 24% if you pay a higher rate of tax. Gains from selling other assets are charged at 10% for basic-rate taxpayers, and 20% for higher-rate taxpayers. You'll only need to pay these rates on the gains that exceed your capital gains allowance. The capital gains tax allowance in 2024-25 is £3,000, half what it was in 2023-23. This is the amount of profit you can make from an asset this tax year before any tax is payable. If your assets are owned jointly with another person, you can use both of your allowances, which can effectively double the amount you can make before CGT is due. If you are married or in a civil partnership, you are free to transfer assets to each other without any CGT being charged. The table below explains your CGT allowance for the tax years 2024-25 and 2023-24.  However, if you choose to transfer any of your assets to your partner, bear in mind that if you later sell the asset, you'll be charged based on the gain made during the period it was owned by you as a couple, rather than since the asset was passed to your partner. If you don't make full use of your CGT allowance in a given tax year, you aren't allowed to carry it forward to the next. You need to have made a certain amount of profit on your items to be taxed on them. This amount depends on whether you're a basic-rate or higher-rate taxpayer, and what the current tax-free allowance is for the tax year. Typical investments that you might have to pay capital gains on include: Generally, most tangible, movable property sold for more than £3,000 can be taxed under the capital gains rules. These include: Many private possessions are exempt from CGT. You don't need to pay when you sell a private car, unless you've ever used it for business. Similarly, wasting assets - which HMRC defines as items with an expected life of 50 years or less - are also exempt from CGT. This includes things like antique clocks, caravans, pleasure boats and most wine if it's not classed as fine wine. HMRC's standards on whether assets are or aren't wasting assets can be tricky to understand, so if you're selling a valuable asset and aren't sure whether it should be declared for CGT it's a good idea to take expert advice. free newsletter Get a firmer grip on your finances with the expert tips in our Money newsletter – it's free weekly. This newsletter delivers free money-related content, along with other information about Which? Group products and services. Unsubscribe whenever you want. Your data will be processed in accordance with our Privacy policy If your income makes you a basic-rate (20%) taxpayer, but you have made large enough capital gain to push you into a higher-rate tax bracket, you will pay the higher rate of CGT on the amount that takes you over the threshold. It works like this: Work out how much taxable income you've earned from your salary, pension or other types of income. You can do this by deducting your tax-free personal allowance (£12,570 in 2023-24 and 2024-25) from your total income. Calculate your taxable capital gain by deducting the tax-free CGT allowance (£6,000 in 2023-2024 and £3,000 in 2024-25) from your profits. You'll only pay CGT on the gain you make from an asset, rather than the sale price. That means you're allowed to deduct the price you originally paid for it, as well as any additional costs involved with buying and selling it. You're also allowed to deduct the costs of improving assets, but not the costs of maintaining them (though if you rent them out, maintenance costs may be deductible against any income tax you are charged from the rental income). Add your taxable capital gain to your taxable income. For a basic-rate taxpayer, the maximum taxable income you can earn is £37,700 (after the £12,570 allowance) in 2024-25 before you start paying the higher rate. With the tax-free personal allowance, most people can earn £50,270 before they start paying the higher rate. Note that some higher earners will start paying the higher rate earlier, as they start to lose their personal allowance if they earn more than £100,000. And also note that if you receive the marriage allowance, this will increase the amount you can earn tax-free, but you'll still start paying the higher rate at £50,270. If your taxable income and your taxable capital gain added together is less than £37,700, you'll pay basic-rate CGT (10% on most investments, 18% on second homes). If the two figures added together put you in a higher tax threshold, you'll pay the basic-rate (10% or 18%) on the part up to the threshold, and the higher rate (20% or 24% for second homes) on the rest. Note that if you're in Scotland, capital gains tax is calculated on the UK thresholds (as above), rather than on the Scottish income tax bands. That raises the possibility that you could be a higher-rate Scottish taxpayer, but still pay the basic rate on capital gains. This can be complicated to work out, so we'd recommend getting specialist advice, particularly if your circumstances mean a capital gain pushes your income into a higher tax bracket. But, to provide an explanation of how this kind of tax can work, we've provided a simplified example: Say your taxable income (that is, what's left after deducting the personal allowance) is £20,000, and your taxable gains are £12,600 - none of which are from property. After taking away the CGT allowance of £3,000, you're left with £9,600 that you'll need to pay tax on. Add this £9,600 to your taxable income, bringing it up to £29,600. This is still below the higher-rate threshold, meaning you'll pay 10% on the capital gains. Therefore, your CGT bill would be £960. CGT is charged on your total gains each tax year. So if you make a profit when selling one item, but a loss when selling another, you can deduct the loss from the gain before working out how much tax you owe. While you can't carry forward any unused allowances, you are allowed to carry forward any losses that haven't been used to offset gains. Even if you don't owe any CGT, it's important to submit details of losses in your tax return to make it easier to offset them against a potential gain in future years. Payments are due at different times, depending on the asset you've sold. CGT bills must be paid within 60 days by submitting a property return directly to HMRC. You can report capital gains to HMRC via the Report Capital Gains Tax online service from the government. Alternatively, for gains that aren't property-related, you can file a self-assessment tax return. If you usually fill in a tax return, you must also report any capital gains, regardless of whether you've already used HMRC's online service. You also need to include how you worked out each capital gain. If you have lost money through an investment (for example, selling a second home at a loss) you should also include details of this on your tax return. You don't have to pay tax on all capital gains. Those listed below are tax-free: Find out more in our guide to capital gains tax on property. If you'd like to minimise the amount of CGT you need to pay, you may consider the following tips. Consider transferring assets into joint names if you're married or in a civil partnership. By transferring an asset into joint ownership, you can both make use of your tax-free allowance so that up to £6,000 of any gain is tax-free in 2024-25. But the transfer to your spouse or partner must be a genuine outright gift. Investing in paintings, antiques and other collectables can be tax-efficient, especially where they are not treated as a set and so can be sold piece by piece, with each item qualifying for the £6,000 exemption. If your gain after selling possessions is between £6,000 and £15,000, you can either pay tax on the actual gain, or for 5/3rds of what you sold it for, minus £6,000. You can choose whichever figure is lower. Worked example Say you bought a painting for £5,000 and later came to sell it for £7,000. You can either use the £2,000 gain to calculate the CGT you owe - depending on any other gains you've made, this could be covered by the CGT allowance, or some or all of it may be charged at 10% or 20%. The most you'd pay is £400, which is 20% of the entire gain. Alternatively, you can opt to pay CGT on 5/3rds of the selling price, minus £6,000. You can find this out by multiplying the selling price by 1.667 to give £11,669, and then taking away £6,000 to leave £5,669. In this case, you'd be better off opting for the standard way of working out a gain. Unmarried partners can each nominate a different property as their main home. You can then benefit from tax relief on both. Married couples and civil partners must choose just one, however. If possible, live in a property before letting it out. If the property is your main home for a time period before you sell it, you can potentially reduce the CGT bill when you eventually sell it. See our guide capital gains tax on property. If you immediately sell employee shares that you get through a save-as-you-earn (SAYE) share option scheme, company share option scheme or enterprise management incentive scheme, you may have a CGT bill. Instead, consider selling in several tranches so that each year's gain is within your annual tax-free allowance. If you get shares through a SAYE share option scheme or a share incentive plan, you have 90 days to transfer them tax-free to an Isa or pension. Gains when you eventually sell will then be tax-free. Use our jargon-free calculator to complete and securely submit your tax return direct to HMRC. Use our jargon-free calculator to complete and securely submit your tax return direct to HMRC. About Us Which? Limited is registered in England and Wales to 2 Marylebone Road, London NW1 4DF, company number 00677665  and is an Introducer Appointed Representative (FRN 610689) of the following:  1. Inspop.com Ltd for the introduction of non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635). Inspop.com Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635) and is registered in England and Wales to Greyfriars House, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, South Wales, CF10 3AL, company number 03857130. Confused.com is a trading name of Inspop.com Ltd.   2. LifeSearch Partners Limited (FRN656479), for the introduction of Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the FCA to provide advice and arrange Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance Contracts.  LifeSearch Partners Ltd is registered in England and Wales to 3000a Parkway, Whiteley, Hampshire, PO15 7FX, company number 03412386.  3. HUB Financial Solutions, for the introduction of equity release advice and an annuity comparison service, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) to provide advice and guidance on financial products for those who have retired or are approaching retirement (FCA Firm Reference Number: 455713). HUB Financial Solutions is registered in England and Wales to Enterprise House, Bancroft Road, Reigate, Surrey RH12 7RP, company number 05125701.  4. Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Ltd (FRN 301), for the introduction of non-investment landlord insurances, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide advice and arrange insurance contracts. Alan Boswell insurance brokers Ltd is registered in England at Prospect House, Rouen Rd, Norwich NR1 1RE, company number 02591252.  Other financial services: Mortgage service provided by London & Country Mortgages (L&C), Unit 26 (2.06), Newark Works, 2 Foundry Lane, Bath BA2 3GZ. London & Country are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (registered number: 143002). The FCA does not regulate most Buy to Let mortgages. Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.  We do not make, nor do we seek to make, any recommendations or personalised advice on financial products or services that are regulated by the FCA, as we’re not regulated or authorised by the FCA to advise you in this way. In some cases, however, we have included links to regulated brands or providers with whom we have a commercial relationship and, if you choose to, you can buy a product from our commercial partners.   If you go ahead and buy a product using our link, we will receive a commission to help fund our not-for-profit mission and our campaigns work as a champion for the UK consumer. Please note that a link alone does not constitute an endorsement by Which?. Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024