 Not minding the reservations that many Nigerians and outsiders have towards the current administration, there is a need for all and sundry to admit that the plane has taken off and things are underway. This is a necessary point of note, especially since the appointment of high-value individuals like Zach Adedeji gives some insight into the plans and intended purposes of President Bola Tinubu. Adedeji is one of the handful of individuals that President Tinubu recently appointed to make his Renewed Hope mandate a reality. Convinced of their abilities and devotion to Nigeria’s welfare, Adedeji is one of those that many Nigerians are trusting to help reduce some of the burdens of penury as a result of faulty economic policies. In this regard, Adedeji, a man of the tax books, is a complementary force. For those interested in having a peek at his qualifications, for which Tinubu anointed him, Adedeji can only be described as having walked an astonishing path. At 33, as of 2011, he was appointed the Commissioner for Finance in Oyo State. It is important to note that he remains the youngest Commissioner for Finance in Oyo’s history. But there is much more to Adedeji than the accomplishments of yesteryear. With almost 20 years of professional and active experience in corporate accounting, public service administration, and public service advisory, Adedeji is one of the top assets from Oyo. He has held multiple leading positions as a result of his abilities and was the fifth substantive Executive Secretary of the National Sugar Development Council under former President Muhammadu Buhari. A First-Class graduate of Management and Accounting from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Adedeji is an overachiever. His subsequent acquisitions of knowledge and expertise corroborate this. With Adedeji at the beck and call of President Tinubu, the Nigerian economy is poised for improvement. It is only a matter of time before Adedeji, and others like him ensure the delivery of the Renewed Hope as promised by the president. Founded on January 22, 1995, THISDAY is published by THISDAY NEWSPAPERS LTD., 35 Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria with offices in 36 states of Nigeria , the Federal Capital Territory and around the world. It is Nigeria’s most authoritative news media available on all platforms for the political, business, professional and diplomatic elite and broader middle classes while serving as the meeting point of new ideas, culture and technology for the aspirationals and millennials. The newspaper is a public trust dedicated to the pursuit of truth and reason covering a range of issues from breaking news to politics, business, the markets, the arts, sports and community to the crossroads of people and society. You can email us at: hello@thisdaylive.com or visit our contact us page.  