Published on By The University of Ibadan, Oyo State, has directed its staff to work for three days a week. The institution made this disclosure through a special release number, 4642, dated 14 August 2023 and signed by G.O. Saliu, Registrar and Secretary to Council. It explained that the decision was taken in view of the recent removal of subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), also known as petrol. It lamented that salary earners who have to commute to work every working day are faced with an aggravation of the condition, given the attendant hike in the transport fare and cost of living. He added that after a careful consideration of the situation, management of the institution has recommended a temporary work schedule adjustment for members of staff. He maintained that the senate of the institution, at its meeting held on Thursday, 3 August 2023, considered and approved the decision, which takes effect from August 14. The statement added that people on essential duties are exempted from this adjustment. It urged staff members to maintain commitment, open communication and cooperation towards ensuring free workflow, including working from home where and when necessary, asking deans, directors, heads of departments and units to work towards a smooth implementation of the intervention. “The astronomical increase in the fuel pump price occasioned by the removal of subsidy by the Federal Government has imposed huge economic difficulties on the generality of Nigerians. Salary earners who have to commute to work every working day are faced with an aggravation of the condition, given the attendant hike in the transport fare and cost of living. “After a careful consideration of the situation, the University Management recommended a temporary work schedule adjustment for members of staff, which Senate at its meeting of Thursday, 03 August, 2023 considered and approved. Accordingly, members of staff are now expected to work on site for three (3) days in rotation per week, with effect from Monday, 14 August, 2073. It should, however, be noted that those on essential duties are exempted from this adjustment. “It should be further noted that Management will review the arrangement as the situation improves Meanwhile, members of staff are to maintain commitment, open communication and cooperation towards ensuring free workflow, including working from home where and when necessary. In light of the foregoing, Management seeks the understanding of all Deans, Directors, Heads of Departments and Units towards a smooth implementation of the intervention,” the statement read.  Drug hawkers pose serious threat to national security – NAFDAC Police unseal Plateau council secretariats UI management meets students over protests UI students halt vehicular movements, block campus gate over 10-hour daily electricity supply Speak up when your seniors oppress, intimidate you – Don tells students Balance unionism with academic excellence – UI VC counsels student leaders Subsidy removal: Nigerian Govt announces price for CNG University of Ibadan admits 3,749 students for undergraduate programmes Copyright Â© Daily Post Media Ltd