The Dairy Alliance, which raises awareness about the nutritional and wellness advantages of dairy milk, is teaming up with high school athletics associations across the Southeast to be the Official Milk Partner this fall season. The organization will sponsor a variety of high school sports championships across Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. The first championship event is slated for October 14. "We are delighted to show our support for high school athletes in our region and to be the Official Milk Partner for these exciting championship events," said Geri Berdak, CEO at The Dairy Alliance. "We know these student-athletes work hard to balance school and sports, so we want to encourage them to stay strong on and off the field with nutrient-dense dairy milk." The Dairy Alliance sponsorship kicks off on Oct. 14 with the South Carolina High School League's Swimming Championship. The Dairy Alliance will be sponsoring a total of 22 championship games across seven states in their region, including for the Georgia High School Association, North Carolina Independent Schools Athletic Association, Kentucky High School Athletic Association, Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Association, Mississippi High School Activation Association, and Virginia Independent Schools Athletic Association. Dairy milk benefits athletes by providing 13 essential nutrients that support energy, wellness and strong bones. Drinking a glass of ice cold, delicious dairy milk helps build muscles and keep bodies active throughout the day, The Dairy Alliance states. Offering 8 grams of complete protein per 8-ounce serving, drinking dairy milk, such as chocolate milk, helps athletes refuel after a competition or training. "Milk's natural electrolytes, carbohydrates, and high-quality protein make it more effective at improving wellness and keeping athletes energized longer than water and sports drinks," added Berdak. For Dairy Foods' video interview with The Dairy Alliance CEO Geri Berdak about milk, click here. You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Dairy Foods audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of Dairy Foods or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 Consumer demand for reduced or zero-sugar products continues to rise exponentially each year. We will look at this topic in-depth, with presentations from Hari Meletharayil, Vice President of Product Research at Dairy Management Inc., and Shelley Balanko, Senior Vice President at The Hartman Group. Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing