Watch: Neighbours are shocked after an Auckland dairy owner was attacked on Thursday morning.   Credits: Newshub  Yet another Auckland shopkeeper has been critically injured in a daylight attack.  The owner of the New Windsor Dairy and a woman were taken to hospital this morning, and it's not the first time the dairy has been violently targeted. Another day, another Auckland dairy under attack. Young witnesses in a nearby house said they saw a man coming out of the shop around 10.30am on Thursday morning.  "He was running and he was covered in blood and then the police tackled him," a young boy said.  Police said a number of people in the store at the time intervened and managed to apprehend and restrain the offender. There were fears for the dairy owner who was taken to Auckland Hospital in a police car in a critical condition, however, police said they managed to have a few words with him this afternoon A nearby shop owner who was the first to call the police said the dairy owner was covered in blood and the owner's wife had a cut to her hand - she's in a stable condition. "We were watching through my bedroom window, we saw a guy just running towards - yeah we saw all the cops and saw a stretcher being taken out into the ambulance, which was probably someone injured," a young girl told Newshub.  "Then after a while we saw the guy trying to make a run for it." Witnesses said this must have been a second attempt to flee. "It was a group of police, yeah five, six police, because the police were already here and they just like grabbed him," she added. Local customers are completely shocked by what's happened. "No I don't know what happened but those are good people over there. Those are really good people," Neighbour Maani Ta said. It's not the first time this dairy has been targeted. Back in 2008,  Newshub spoke to the then-owner, Shashikant Preema, as he recovered from a number of stab wounds - including a punctured lung. "He stood there looked into my eye and I said that's $4.50 and all of a sudden a big knife comes out and lunged right across the counter," Preema told Newshub at the time.  Just under one year ago, dairy worker Janak Patel was killed at the Rose Cottage Superette in the neighbouring suburb of Sandringham. Since then talks between the Dairy and Business owners group and the government have stalled. "I can feel their pain now because I got stabbed once - looted on at gunpoint, and I'm very sorry to hear it," Dairy & Business Owners Group's Ravinder Singh told Newshub. "I can understand their pain now today, might be they were thinking are we in the right business today?" he said. "They're thinking, are we in the right country today?" Police have taken a 24-year-old offender into custody.