Customers could lose money or have personal details stolen A warning has been issued regarding an Amazon Prime scam targeting customers. It has been reported scammers are impersonating the online retailer to gain access to customer's devices and steal personal information such as bank details, according to consumer rights website Which?. To carry out the scam, fraudsters are said to be calling customers out of the blue. Fraudsters start the scam by ringing from an unrecognised number. When a person answers, the scammer will tell them their Amazon Prime subscription is going up in price or is about to expire. READ MORE: Thomas Cashman murder trial resumes as man accused of shooting schoolgirl Olivia Pratt-Korbel After hearing this news, a customer might tell the scammer they want to cancel their subscription. If they do this, the person will be put through to another fraudster. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info The victim will then be told to download a remote access software on their device. According to Which?, this is typically an app called AnyDesk, which is a genuine programme, however scammers sometimes use this software as a way of exploiting people. After a customer has downloaded the program, the fraudster has access to the device. This allows them to steal personal information on the device and install malware software, risking the person losing money and personal details. On its website, Which? said: "Amazon confirmed to Which? that it will never ask customers to provide remote access to their devices or make any payments outside of its website." If the customers device has been accessed by the scammer via the remote access software, the remote session should be ended as soon as possible by pressing a button which states "disconnect session", or something similar. Another option is to turn off the device and wi-fi to stop the fraudster in their tracks. When the device is switched back on, the software can be removed by looking in the recent downloads folder. The victim should also contact their bank right away as this might have been accessed by the fraudster. Get all the latest Eurovision 2023 news straight to your inbox READ NEXT: Thomas Cashman murder trial resumes as man accused of shooting schoolgirl Olivia Pratt-Korbel Updates as brothers and schoolboy who beat security guard to death are sentenced Lorraine Kelly replaced by Dr Hilary as she begs for help over her health Lost Liverpool nightclub where 'nobody really cared' Aldi's 'practical' £5 storage boxes shoppers say are 'good value for money'