You don’t have to completely stop eating eggs, meat, and dairy products to be more cholesterol-friendly. But it may be beneficial to change your eating habits to help lower cholesterol.  True or false? Eggs, dairy, and meat are bad for you If you’ve been diagnosed with high cholesterol, should you completely eliminate eggs, meat, and dairy from your diet? Not necessarily. Reducing the amount of unhealthy fats you consume is vital to lowering your high cholesterol. But you don’t have to completely rid your diet of eggs, meat, and dairy products to make it more cholesterol-friendly. You can incorporate these foods into your diet in a healthy way. The key to enjoying them all comes down to: Cholesterol usually has a negative connotation. But not all cholesterol is bad. There are two types of cholesterol: low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL). HDL cholesterol is known as “good” cholesterol. It helps to remove dangerous cholesterol from the blood so it can be eliminated by the body.  LDL is called “bad” cholesterol. When too much of it is present in the blood, it causes a buildup of plaque on the arterial walls in the heart and brain. When left untreated, this buildup of plaque can lead to: Cholesterol serves vital functions for your body. It aids in important jobs such as: All of the cholesterol you need is produced naturally in the liver, according to the American Heart Association (AHA). The remainder of the cholesterol in your body is derived from the food you eat. Cholesterol becomes a health hazard when too much of it is present in the blood.  For some people, genetics cause their liver to produce too much LDL (bad) cholesterol. A contributor to high LDL cholesterol is consistently eating foods high in: Cholesterol is only present in animal products, including meat and dairy products. According to the AHA, the optimal LDL level in the body is less than 100 mg/dL. A level of 130 to 159 mg/dL is considered borderline high. Since HDL (good) cholesterol is protective, a higher number is better. The ADA recommends an HDL of at least 60 mg/dL. The Mayo Clinic recommends those with high LDL cholesterol to limit their daily cholesterol intake to 200 mg or less. Keep this number in mind when planning your meals throughout the day. Read food labels carefully to make sure you don’t consume more than the recommended amount. Eggs are thought to be taboo when it comes to the topic of cholesterol. However, multiple studies show that eggs are not evil. According to the Cleveland Clinic, eggs are high in: The antioxidants in eggs have been associated with lower rates of: Eating eggs in moderation, about 4 to 6 eggs per week, is acceptable, even for people with high cholesterol, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Research shows that people who eat eggs in moderation don’t show an increase in their cholesterol levels compared to those who eliminate eggs completely from their diet. The key is eating eggs in moderation. Creating a healthy meal plan to maintain your cholesterol doesn’t mean you have to omit meat altogether. While some types of meat are high in saturated fat, there are plenty of leaner options.  You can safely include meat in your diet. It just depends on the type of meat you choose and how you prepare it. Select leaner cuts and smaller portions of meat (less than 3 ounces), such as: How you cook meat is just as important as the cut of meat. Don’t select a lean cut of pork tenderloin and then deep fry it or prepare a cream-based sauce to go with it. That negates the benefits of the lean cut of pork. Adopt these healthier cooking options: Consuming dairy products is known to have health benefits, especially in strengthening bones. Dairy products are high in: Consuming whole-fat dairy products can have the unwanted health effect of increasing your LDL cholesterol levels. They are high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Replace them with healthier, low fat options including: Share this article The role of dietary cholesterol in human health has been a controversial topic. Here’s a look at the research on dietary cholesterol and the effect it… High levels of cholesterol, particularly “bad” LDL cholesterol, have been linked to an increased risk of heart disease, heart attack and stroke. Here… Many people avoid cholesterol-rich foods, but not all are harmful to your health. Here are 11 high cholesterol foods, including healthy and unhealthy… Cholesterol is an important topic for heart health. We explain just how much cholesterol you should have each day and where fats fit in. Find out more about when to inject Repatha, its dosing schedule, and how to store it. A new study found people using a new type of injectable medication were able to lower their LDL cholesterol by as much as 50%.  New research finds that millions of people currently taking statins to lower cholesterol may not actually need this medication to stay heart healthy. Insurance companies set acceptable cholesterol levels for life insurance because this is a way to assess general health. We share scores and how to… Researchers believe that statins could play a role in preventing certain forms of cancer associated with chronic inflammation. Actor Gina Torres shares how she helped her parents manage their health after they were diagnosed with high cholesterol and how she maintains a… OUR BRANDS