Now Reading   Published 03-14-23 Submitted by Owens Corning TOLEDO, Ohio, March 14, 2023 /CSRwire/ - Owens Corning (NYSE: OC) today announced that it has been recognized by Ethisphere as one of the 2023 World’s Most Ethical Companies. This marks the sixth consecutive year the company has been recognized with this honor. Owens Corning is one of just two honorees in the Construction and Building Materials industry, underscoring its commitment to leading with integrity and prioritizing ethical business practices. In 2023, 135 honorees were recognized spanning 19 countries and 46 industries. Ethisphere is a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices. “Owens Corning is honored to be recognized by Ethisphere for the sixth consecutive year,” said Executive Vice President and General Counsel Gina Beredo. “Our inclusion on this distinguished list speaks to our company’s purpose and serves as a testament to our 19,000 employees across the world who demonstrate it each day with their unwavering commitment to ethical business practices.” Methodology & Scoring Grounded in Ethisphere’s proprietary Ethics Quotient®, the World’s Most Ethical Companies assessment process includes more than 200 questions on culture, environmental and social practices, ethics and compliance activities, governance, diversity, and initiatives that support a strong value chain. The process serves as an operating framework to capture and codify the leading practices of organizations across industries and around the globe. Honorees To view the full list of this year’s honorees, please visit the World’s Most Ethical Companies website, at https://worldsmostethicalcompanies.com/honorees. Ethisphere Recognition Adds to Recent Company Distinctions The Ethisphere recognition is one of several honors Owens Corning has earned for its corporate leadership recently, including: About Owens Corning Owens Corning is a global building and construction materials leader committed to building a sustainable future through material innovation. Our three integrated businesses – Composites, Insulation, and Roofing – provide durable, sustainable, energy-efficient solutions that leverage our unique material science, manufacturing, and market knowledge to help our customers win and grow. We are global in scope, human in scale with approximately 19,000 employees in 31 countries dedicated to generating value for our customers and shareholders and making a difference in the communities where we work and live. Founded in 1938 and based in Toledo, Ohio, USA, Owens Corning posted 2022 sales of $9.8 billion. For more information, visit www.owenscorning.com. Owens Corning Company News / Owens Corning Investor Relations News Media Relations:
Todd Romain
419.248.7826 Investor Relations:
Amber Wohlfarth
419.248.5639 Source: Owens Corning Owens Corning is a global building and construction materials leader committed to building a sustainable future through material innovation. Our three integrated businesses – Roofing, Insulation, and Composites – provide durable, sustainable, energy-efficient solutions that leverage our unique material science, manufacturing, and market knowledge to help our customers win and grow. We are global in scope, human in scale with approximately 18,000 employees in 30 countries dedicated to generating value for our customers and shareholders and making a difference in the communities where we work and live. Founded in 1938 and based in Toledo, Ohio, USA, Owens Corning posted 2023 sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit www.owenscorning.com. Owens Corning is a global building and construction materials leader committed to building a sustainable future through material innovation. Our three integrated businesses – Roofing, Insulation, and Composites – provide durable, sustainable, energy-efficient solutions that leverage our unique material science, manufacturing, and market knowledge to help our customers win and grow. We are global in scope, human in scale with approximately 18,000 employees in 30 countries dedicated to generating value for our customers and shareholders and making a difference in the communities where we work and live. Founded in 1938 and based in Toledo, Ohio, USA, Owens Corning posted 2023 sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit www.owenscorning.com. More from Owens Corning