News News | Mar 3, 2023  cjones@summitdaily.com While competitors had just wrapped up competition at the Winter Dew Tour at Copper Mountain Resort, Summit’s Chris Corning and Jake Canter were gearing up for the men’s snowboard slopestyle final at the International Ski Federation’s (FIS) Snowboard, Freestyle and Freeski 2023 World Championships in Bakuriani, Georgia.   Corning and Canter both qualified for the final on Friday, Feb. 24. Corning qualified in the top spot in Heat 2 with a score of 80.60 while Canter qualified in the fourth spot in Heat 1 with a score of 71.21  In the men’s snowboard slopestyle final on Monday, Feb. 27, Corning had an extremely clean first run. Corning navigated the rails and jumps sections successfully while landing two frontside 1080s and a back side 1800 (five full rotations).  The string of tricks was enough for Corning to record a score of 82.18, which he failed to improve upon on his final run. Despite failing to go bigger on his second run, Corning’s first run score secured him a bronze medal at the 2023 world championships. Corning’s third-place finish at the 2023 world championships marks his fourth world championship medal. Corning placed first at the 2019 world championships and silver and bronze at the 2017 world championships. Canter began the slopestyle final with a fall on his first run, but he bounced back on his final run in order to score a respectable score. Canter landed a switch backside 1260 and a backside 1620 to earn a score of 69.55. The score was enough for Canter to place 11th overall in his first world championships. Mammoth Mountain’s Brock Crouch placed three spots ahead of Canter in eighth place.  Norway’s Marcus Kleveland took home gold with a score of 87.23, and Japan’s Ryoma Kimata placed second with a score of 83.45.  A post shared by U.S. Snowboard Team (@ussnowboardteam) In the early morning hours on Wednesday, March 1, Dillon’s Chase Blackwell competed in the men’s snowboard halfpipe qualifiers.  Blackwell put together two, well-executed runs, but it was not enough to advance to Friday’s final. Blackwell finished with a top score of 69.75 to finish in 12th place overall, two places out of the final.  Corning was scheduled to compete again in the men’s snowboard big air qualifiers late on Wednesday, March 1, but he scratched himself from the competition due to a fall he sustained in practice.  Corning cited in an Instagram post that the damage to his head was limited, but the damage he sustained from the whiplash from the fall was enough for him to pull himself from the competition.  Corning stated in his Instagram post that he is happy that he is okay and is looking forward to future competitions.   
Aug 14, 2024
  
Aug 14, 2024
 
Aug 14, 2024
 
Aug 13, 2024
 
Aug 13, 2024
 
Aug 10, 2024
  
Aug 10, 2024
 
Aug 9, 2024
 
Aug 9, 2024
 
Aug 13, 2024
 As a Summit Daily News reader, you make our work possible. Summit Daily is embarking on a multiyear project to digitize its archives going back to 1989 and make them available to the public in partnership with the Colorado Historic Newspapers Collection. The full project is expected to cost about $165,000. All donations made in 2023 will go directly toward this project. Every contribution, no matter the size, will make a difference. 
The Town of Vail is Now Hiring Benefits include: Medical/Dental/Vision/Retirement Plan/Lifestyle Spending Account and more! Emergency Communications Speciali...
 
  Administrative and Technology Coordinator Administrative and Technology Coordinator handles administrative and organizational tasks to support the Fat...
 
Do you have a natural ability to build relationships? Do you get satisfaction from helping others succeed? Are you a…
 
Employment Opportunities Summit County Government is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. To view a list of our employment opportunities, review…
 
Keystone Symposia Job Description Job Title: Attendee Services Senior Specialist Summary of Position: Keystone Symposia develops and produces conferences fo...
 
We are currently seeking an Events and Donor Engagement Manager to supervise all Foundation events. This includes major fundraising events…
 
CTL|Thompson, Inc. is seeking an Engineering Technician for seasonal employment with our Silverthorne, CO office. Engineering Technicians will perform fie...
 
Facility Maintenance Technician Copper Mountain, Colorado is a vibrant mountain community renowned for its exceptional skiing, biking, hiking, and fly-fishing...
 
CTL|Thompson, Inc. is seeking an Engineering Technician for full-time employment with our Silverthorne, CO office. Engineering Technicians will perform fi...
 
Attendee Services Senior Specialist Summary of Position: Keystone Symposia develops and produces conferences for the top biology researchers in the…
  Sign up for daily and breaking news headlines.
Manage Subscriptions 
Jobs
 
Classifieds
 
Place Legal Ad
 
Search Legal Ads
 
Autos
 
Real Estate
 
Rentals
 
Service Directory
 
Pets
 
Merchandise
 
Legals
 
Farm and Ranch
 
Recreation
 
Announcements
 
Contact us
 
About us
 
Submissions
 
Submit an Obituary
 
Submit an event
 
Submit a request to update a crime story
 
Summit Daily archive
 
Magazines
 
Newsletters
 
Summit Daily E-Edition
 
Summit County Journal
 
AP News
 
Cookie List
 
Do not sell my personal information
 
Commercial Print Sales
 
RSS
 
Work for us
 
Aspen – Snowmass
 
Craig – Moffat County
 
Glenwood Springs - Rifle
 
Steamboat Springs - Routt County
 
Vail - Eagle County
 
Winter Park - Granby - Grand County
 
Printing Press Jobs
 ©2005 - 2024 Swift Communications, Inc.