Presidential wedding gifts were a topic on Wednesday’s Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen, when a former Real Housewives cast member revealed what she received from President Joe Biden. One of the night’s guests was Meghan King, who appeared on The Real Housewives of Orange County for three seasons from 2014 to 2017, during which time she was married to former MLB player Jim Edmonds. They later separated in October 2019 after five years of marriage and three children together. King would go on to marry Cuffe Biden Owens, the nephew of President Biden and son of Biden’s younger sister, Valerie Owens. The ceremony took place at the groom’s childhood home in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania, in October 2021. The couple separated a few months later in December 2021, and the marriage was later annulled in July 2022. RELATED: Meghan King confirms Cuffe Biden Owens split after 2 months of marriage: 'I am rattled' However, the wedding was attended by the president and the first lady, something that WWHL host Andy Cohen couldn’t help but ask about. He first wanted to know if the Bidens had any knowledge of the Real Housewives show itself — which he executive produces — or King’s involvement in it. “I wasn’t thinking about it, but I think the president is well aware of the housewives at this point,” King said. Cohen also asked about the wedding gift they received from the president, which King described as a “beautiful crystal bowl with the presidential seal on it.” And of course, given the eventual outcome of Owens and King’s brief relationship, we learned that King is the one who got to keep the gift after the separation, news that was met with applause from the studio audience and a high-five from Cohen. “So, maybe it was worth it?” he asked. “No Andy, it was not,” King said. Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen airs Sunday through Thursdays on Bravo. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.