Showbiz Sign up to our free weekly newsletter for exclusive competitions, offers and theatre ticket deals  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. Canadian actressTaylor Russell was spotted at the VIP section of Harry Styles’s Love on Tour concert in Vienna. And, after the show, the two were seen walking hand-in-hand.  It came shortly after the pair was spotted enjoying a day at an art museum in London together in June, leading many to deduct they were dating.  So far, neither star has publicly commented on the rumours. But you might be wondering: who exactly is Taylor Russell?  Here is everything we know. Taylor Russell McKenzie is a Canadian actress who was born in Vancouver, British Columbia.  The 28-year-old took her first acting class at the age of 18 and hasn’t looked back since.  After years of auditions, the actress landed her first role in 2012, making an appearance on an episode of the CW drama series Emily Owens, MD.  In 2014, she starred in the Lifetime television movie The Unauthorized Saved by the Bell Story, taking on the role of Lark Voorhies, before playing Jennifer in the Disney XD film Pants on Fire.  You may have also spotted her appearances in Strange Empire, Falling Skies, Dead of Summer, Before I Fall, or Down a Dark Hall.  However, Russell’s big career moment was when she starred as Judy Robinson in the Netflix remake of Lost in Space between 2018 and 2021, which earned her a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Streaming Presentation.  Meanwhile, she also took on the leading role of Zoey Davis in Escape Room, a psychological horror movie, and starred in the film Waves. Most recently, the Canadian creative has played Maren in Bones and All alongside Timothee Chalamet, which is about a young woman’s journey through America. Transfer news LIVE! Merino to Arsenal update, Joan Garcia; Felix to Chelsea done; Man Utd make Ugarte progress Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned Make your next trip to the West End a celebration of women in culture Aside from acting, Russell has also dabbled in fashion. She previously opened the SS23 Loewe collection and worked as the brand’s global ambassador. Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Football Transfer news LIVE! Merino to Arsenal update, Joan Garcia; Felix to Chelsea done; Man Utd make Ugarte progress 2 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 3 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 4 Football Chelsea to accelerate fire sale with 14 players facing exits before transfer window closes 5 Football Champions League Draw: Date, start time, teams, fixtures and new format for 2024/25 season