
  Police investigating reports of threats and assault want to speak with a scaffolder.
 
  Sussex Police are appealing for information to locate Billy Howlett, 31, formerly of Kingsland Close, Shoreham, in connection with their enquiries.
 
MOST READ:
 
  Scaffolder Howlett is white, 5ft 11in, with short blonde hair.
 
  Anyone who sees him or knows his whereabouts is asked to report it to Sussex Police online or call 101 and quote serial 293 of 06/04.
 
Billy Howlett  (Image: Sussex Police)
 
  Alternatively, contact CrimeStoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.