24 new titles from Apple TV+, Netflix, HBO Go, AFN, Discovery and Prime Video PUBLISHED : 2 Aug 2023 at 17:21 NEWSPAPER SECTION:  Guru WRITER: 
															Nianne-Lynn Hendricks Looking for a title to binge-watch this weekend? Here's our pick! APPLE TV+     Eva The Owlet: Season 2 Premieres on Aug 4 Follows Eva, a creative, cheeky owlet who lives next door to her best friend “Lucy" in the woodland world of Treetopington. Strange Planet  Premieres on Aug 9 Based on "The New York Times” No.1 best-selling graphic novel by Nathan Pyle and social media phenomenon of the same name, “Strange Planet” is a hilarious and perceptive look at a distant world not unlike our own. Set in a whimsical world of cotton candy pinks and purples, relatable blue beings explore the absurdity of everyday human traditions. NETFLIX     Winnie The Pooh: Blood And Honey Premiered on Aug 1 Returning to the Hundred Acre Wood after a long absence, Christopher Robin discovers his woodland friends have become terrifying threats. Zom 100: Bucket List Of The Dead Premieres on Aug 3 Bullied by his boss, worked around the clock, he's nothing more than a corporate drone. All it takes is a zombie outbreak for him to finally feel alive! Lost In Blue Premieres on Aug 3 Three adolescent girls explore the depths of youth, love and friendship in this anthology of coming-of-age shorts from three award-winning filmmakers. Heartstopper: Season 2 Premieres on Aug 3 With exams, a school trip to Paris and prom on the horizon, Nick, Charlie and the gang must navigate the next stages of life, love and friendship. The Lincoln Lawyer: Season 2 Part 2 Premieres on Aug 3 As Lisa's trial approaches, Mickey faces doubts, setbacks and unexpected revelations. Lorna and Cisco plan for their big day, while Izzy makes big moves. The Last Hours Of Mario Biondo Premieres on Aug 3 Questions persist about the last night of Mario Biondo, the husband of Spanish TV host Raquel Sánchez Silva. This true-crime series uncovers new details. Fatal Seduction Premieres on Aug 4 A married professor is pulled into a passionate affair with a younger man that uncovers a path of tragedy and betrayal from those closest to her. The Hunt For Veerappan Premieres on Aug 4 This docu-series follows the rise and fall of Veerappan, a dreaded smuggler whose bloody reign sparked a 20-year-long manhunt in south India. Portrait Of A Lady On Fire Premieres on Aug 7 Marianne is hired to secretly paint a portrait of a noblewoman's soon-to-wed daughter, who refuses to pose but soon reciprocates the artist's gaze. Zombieverse Premieres on Aug 8 In Seoul, where a zombie virus outbreak has run amok, who will outwit the undead in the face of challenging quests and come out alive? The Seven Deadly Sins: Grudge of Edinburgh Part 2 Premieres on Aug 8 Reunited with Lancelot for the first time since their tragic accident, Tristan must learn to conquer his inner demons in order to save his mother's life. Tove Premieres on Aug 9 This biopic follows the unique life of the Moomins creator Tove Jansson and her hunt for identity, desire and freedom in post-World War II Finland. HBO AND HBO GO     Khun Pan 3 Premieres on Aug 4 Catch Thailand’s biggest blockbuster and the final chapter of the beloved action-fantasy trilogy, Khun Pan 3, which presents an electrifying story of good versus evil, set against the heady backdrop of Thailand in the 1950s in the tumultuous wake of World War ll. Here, corrupt politicians, magic-wielding bandits, and military generals all vie for control in a vicious struggle that threatens to spiral the country into anarchy — with one man riveted at the centre of it all. After years spent meting out his supernatural brand of justice, the righteous sorcerer cop Khun Pan — now an expectant father — returns to the quiet peace of his hometown, hoping to start on a clean slate with his family far from his bloodied past. But he soon discovers, his demons will not be laid to rest so easily, when three prominent politicians are kidnapped. Khun Pan is persuaded to take on one final mission to hunt down the notorious bandits who took them. As Khun Pan grapples with these new threats, he realises that his powers of invincibility are waning: a result of a karmic blood debt incurred by his years of slaughter in the name of justice. As Khun Pan embarks on his journey, he uncovers a conspiracy that challenges everything he believes in and with his powers of invincibility fading, Khun Pan has to confront his toughest foe yet: his mortality. Be sure to catch the finale of this action trilogy to see if the nation’s hope will succeed in this mission while the fate of the republic hangs in the balance. Cast includes Ananda Everingham, Mario Maurer, Phakin “Tono” Khamwilaisak, Bhumibhat Thavornsiri and Sarika Sathsilpsupa. Babylon Premieres on Aug 5 A tale of outsized ambition, following the rise and fall of multiple characters during an era of unbridled decadence and depravity in early Hollywood. Stars Brad Pitt, Margot Robbie, Diego Calva, Jean Smart, Jovan Adepo and Li Jun Li. 38 At The Garden Premieres on Aug 7 Chronicles the extraordinary ascendance of point guard Jeremy Lin during his landmark 2012 season with the New York Knicks. Lin, an undrafted Harvard graduate, shocked fans, stunned his teammates and galvanised Asians around the world when he scored 38 points at Madison Square Garden against the Los Angeles Lakers, solidifying Lin’s hot streak and the “Linsanity” craze. A decade later, Lin’s stature as a ground-breaking, cultural icon stands in stark relief to the recent hate crimes against the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. 38 At The Garden recognises a pivotal moment in time for Lin and celebrates a phenomenon that was bigger than basketball for the world. Shaq Premieres on Aug 7 Featuring a series of revealing interviews with Shaquille O’Neal, Shaq tells the story of a basketball legend unlike any other, whose larger-than-life personality transcended the sport and transformed him into a cultural icon. The documentary series chronicles Shaq’s ascent to superstardom, as a dominant force who won four NBA championships, league MVP honours, and changed the game. It also encompasses his life off the court, from his upbringing in a military family to his deepest personal relationships and prosperous broadcasting and business careers. Winning Time: The Rise Of The Lakers Dynasty: Season 2 Premieres on Aug 7  Season two continues to explore the professional and personal lives of the 80s Los Angeles Lakers. This season hones in on the period just after the Finals in 1980 through 1984, culminating in the first professional rematch of the era’s greatest stars: Magic Johnson and Larry Bird. Stars John C. Reilly, Quincy Isaiah, Adrien Brody, Jason Clarke, Gaby Hoffmann, Jason Segel, Hadley Robinson, DeVaughn Nixon, Solomon Hughes, Tamera Tomakili, Brett Cullen, Stephen Adly Guirgis, Spencer Garrett, Molly Gordon, Joey Brooks, Delante Desouza, Jimel Atkins, Austin Aaron, McCabe Slye, Thomas Mann, Gillian Jacobs, with Michael Chiklis and Rob Morgan. AFN Everyday Cooking Premieres on Aug 2 Samantha Seneviratne proves that even on your busiest days, every home-cooked meal can be easy, exciting, and full of flavour. Food Tales Premieres on Aug 5 Food Tales explores the incredible life stories of Singapore’s local hawker heroes featured in the annual food and music extravaganza: GastroBeats. With a diverse mix of influences stemming from waves of immigration to a tiny island, Singapore’s culinary landscape represents the beating heart of the nation. DISCOVERY CHANNEL Shark Week Premieres on Aug 7-13 Summer’s most-anticipated programming event will return for its historic 35th year with Jason Momoa as host. Momoa, who is dedicated to protecting and preserving the oceans, will guide fans through the biggest annual celebration of sharks. “As the host of Shark Week, I am beyond excited to take you along on this journey,” said Momoa. “This project means more to me than a week of talking about sharks. It’s a chance for me to learn and share my connection to these amazing creatures. My love of sharks came long before my time as Aquaman – it began several generations before me.” Jaws vs The Meg on Aug 7, Tropic Jaws on Aug 8, Air Jaws: Final Frontier on Aug 9, Deadly Sharks Of Paradise on Aug 10, Cocaine Sharks on Aug 11, Shark Week: Off the Hook on Aug 12 and Belly Of The Beast: Feeding Frenzy on Aug 13. PRIME VIDEO     The Lost Flowers Of Alice Hart Premieres on Aug 3 The emotionally compelling story of Alice Hart. When Alice, aged nine, tragically loses her parents in a mysterious fire, she is taken to live with her grandmother June at Thornfield flower farm, where she learns that there are secrets within secrets about her and her family’s past. Set against Australia’s breath-taking, natural landscape and with native wildflowers and plants providing a way to express the inexpressible, this enthralling family drama spans decades. Alice's journey as she grows from her complicated past builds to an emotional climax when she finds herself fighting for her life against a man she loves. See Hear Love  Premeries on Aug 4 Manga artist Shinji Izumoto has secured a movie deal. He should be celebrating, but he's going blind, his manga series has been cancelled, and he can no longer care for his grandmother. All alone, Shinji makes the devastating decision to jump off a balcony. When Hibiki Aida, a deaf fan of his, saves Shinji, they begin an unusual life together. Starring Tomohisa Yamashita and Yuko Araki. By subscribing, you accept the terms and conditions in our privacy policy.