Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: See you at Legit.ng Media Literacy Webinar! Register for free now! Rivers, Port Harcourt - Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state has dismissed the possibility of an alignment with Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with less than nine days to the presidential polls. The pragmatic governor made this known on Thursday, February 16, during a media parley at his residence in Port Harcourt, monitored by Legit.ng. He stated that neither he nor any members of the G-5 integrity group would entertain a sit down with the party's flagbearer, noting that it was too late to have a conversation to reach a truce. Read also 2023 elections: Governor Wike lists candidates Rivers PDP will vote Governor Wike, when asked about the possibility of a last-minute reconciliation attempt, said: PAY ATTENTION: Subscribe to Digital Talk newsletter to receive must-know business stories and succeed BIG! In the build-up to the 2023 polls, Governor Wike and his cohorts ( Samuel Ortom (Benue), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) have been at loggerheads with Atiku over the formation of the party leadership. All five governors said it was unjust and unconstitutional for the party's leadership and its presidential candidate to come from the same region. The G-5 governors, in view of this development, demanded the resignation of Senator Iyorchia Ayu as the party's national chairman.  Read also 2023 Elections: “I’m Not Leaving PDP for APC,” Says Gov Wike, Reveals Next Move When asked about the sudden silence of the G-5 governors, he said: Meanwhile, the Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike, has reaffirmed his loyalty and commitment as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He made this known during a media round table discussion with journalists on Thursday, February 16. Governor Wike described those who have left the party and returned in the time past as ''Buccaneers.'' In another development, the view of the PDP's presidential campaign council is that Governor Wike has officially joined the ruling APC. Read also "Does APC Want to Truncate 2023 Election?" Wike Speaks on Naira Scarcity During Meeting With Tinubu The campaign council, on Thursday, February 16, said with Wike's hosting of Bola Tinubu in Government House, Port Harcourt, on Wednesday, February 15, his stand is clear. In a statement on Thursday, the council said Wike went to court to stop his suspension and expulsion from the PDP because of the game he had in mind to play. Source: Legit.ng 

                Segun Adeyemi                                    (Current Affairs and Politics Editor)
                            
Segun Adeyemi is a journalist with over 9 years of experience as an active field reporter, editor, and editorial manager. He has had stints with Daily Trust newspaper, Daily Nigerian, and News Digest. He currently works as an editor for Legit.ng's current affairs and politics desk. He holds a degree in Mass Communication (Adekunle Ajasin University). He is a certified digital reporter by Reuters, AFP and the co-convener of the annual campus journalism awards. Email: segun.adeyemi@corp.legit.ng. 
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you