Twitter faces legal action from the Crown Estate, which manages properties owned by King Charles III. Insider understands that the estate has begun legal proceedings against Twitter over its London offices. King Charles is the ultimately owner of the estate, though has little day-to-day involvement. Twitter is being taken to court in the UK by the Crown Estate, which manages the property portfolio owned by King Charles III, over an alleged failure to pay rent on its London office. Insider understands that the Crown Estate has issued court proceedings to Twitter following previous contact with the social-media company over unpaid rent, and that two parties are currently in discussions. All the Twitter signs and logos have been removed from the London office, but Elon Musk's company still occupies it, according to The Daily Telegraph, which first reported on the lawsuit. In December 2022, The New York Times reported that Twitter hadn't paid rent on any of its offices for weeks. Since then, the landlord for Twitter's San Francisco headquarters has also begun legal proceedings against the social-media company. Employees in Singapore were even temporarily evicted from their office due to nonpayment of rent – before Musk ultimately paid up later that day, Insider's Kali Hays previously reported. Earlier this month, Insider reported that Twitter's New York office has a cockroach problem, with staff also complaining of uncleaned bathrooms and clogged toilets. This comes amid a series of cost-cutting measures at Twitter, with the workforce reduced from over 7,000 down to 2,300, according to Musk himself. It has also auctioned off nearly 250 items from its San Francisco HQ, with a statue of the Twitter bird logo selling for $100,000. Twitter did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. The Crown Estate manages $19.2 billion worth of properties including 241 in central London, according to its most recent annual report. As the property is ultimately owned by the monarch, three-quarters of the Crown Estate's $384 million net revenue profit goes towards public spending in Britain – with the rest given back to the royal family. The Guardian reported last week that King Charles had asked for the profits from a $1.2 billion portfolio of offshore wind farms owned by the Crown Estate to be used for public funding. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.