A great pair of sunglasses should be in everyone’s accessory collection. From the fly airport outfit to the perfect finishing touch when you’re lounging poolside, sunglasses are everything. To prevent your favorite pair of sunglasses from being tossed around while traveling, try one of the carrying cases below. They range from compact soft cases to a leather case. Real Sic Folding Hard Case for Sunglasses $10.95 Buy Now Folks who need to pack light in a single carry-on bag or personal item will appreciate the design of this sunglasses case. When not in use, it folds completely flat to half an inch. The origami-style case expands and is spacious enough for a standard pair of glasses. The exterior is vegan leather and the magnetic snap keeps your glasses secure. Choose from more than 20 colors and designs. ZAXMEY Sunglasses Soft Case with Carabiner $5.99 Buy Now For a soft shell design, this neoprene case is for a pair of glasses. Besides the fun prints, the keychain is a convenient feature. Use this to attach the case to your belt, backpack or secure it to the inside of a deep tote bag. While this isn’t a hard case exterior, the soft interior will keep your lenses safe.  Bey-Berk Personalized Sunglasses Travel Case $109.95 Buy Now Bey-Berk’s travel case is a step above the rest for a few reasons. The leather carrying case doesn’t securely hold two sunglasses, but there’s also designated slots for watches. You also can personalize this piece by choosing to have your initials engraved on the front. The lining is soft velour and with such a slim design, this case easily fits in a suitcase, briefcase or other small personal item. Biovioy Travel Sunglasses Organizer $25.98 Buy Now Heading to a warm and or sunny destination might mean you want to bring a variety of sunglasses. If that’s you, then this octagon-shaped case is for you. The organizer, which comes in black or brown, holds five pairs of glasses and rolls up securely by two clasps. The soft lining prevents scratches and the case has a long loop for carrying or hanging once you reach your destination. Grewas Soft Leather Sunglasses Pouch $11.99 Buy Now With a truly unique design, this carrying case protects the lenses of the glasses while the arms fold over the exterior. The case has a pebbled leather and a detachable strap, allowing you to loop it around a belt or your favorite bag. This is a stylish solution to keeping your glasses protected and on hand, if you plan to reach for them often. Hilbalm Sunglasses Case (3 Pack) $9.99 Buy Now Keep it simple and functional with this 3-pack sunglasses case. The shell is a bit larger than some cases, so if you have oversized glasses, then this might be the option for you. The case prevents your glasses from being bent and the soft lining keeps the lenses scratch-free. Our editors love finding you the best products and offers! If you purchase something by clicking on one of the affiliate links on our website, we may earn a commission at no extra cost to you. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.