Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     An Animal Crossing: New Horizons player gave Zucker a pair of glasses that turned him from one of the cutest octopuses in the game into a monstrosity. These glasses can be given to any villager in Animal Crossing: New Horizons, but they look even more terrifying on Zucker.
      Animal Crossing: New Horizons is a game where making friends with the island’s residents is highly encouraged. One of the best ways of doing this is for the player to give gifts to every villager in Animal Crossing: New Horizons they run into. Giving gifts to villages will increase the friendship points between the player and villager, which can lead to higher friendship tiers and better rewards. One of the most common reasons to give villagers presents is to dress them up however the player would like. Most of the time, players will try to dress up their villages to make them look as cute as possible, but sometimes this backfires.
      RELATED: Animal Crossing Fan Uses Tom Nook Meme to Suggest a Clever Pocket Space Upgrade
                     Reddit user PrivateIslandPresent received a frightening surprise after their wife gave Zucker, one of the cutest villagers in Animal Crossing: New Horizons a pair of glasses, turning the once adorable octopus into a bug-eyed beast. These were not ordinary glasses, but special specs, called “Silly Glasses,” and can be found at the Able Sisters shop for 770 bells. These Silly Glasses are the purple variant, which makes the eyelids look like the wearer drank 100 cups of coffee.
                         Zucker is a lazy octopus with a long Animal Crossing history, with his first appearance being in Animal Crossing: New Leaf. He has appeared in every game since New Leaf and is generally loved in the Animal Crossing community. Seeing Zucker depicted in such a creepy way was not only surprising to the original poster's wife, but also many players in the comments were quite disturbed themselves. Although one commenter decided to give all their villages Silly Glasses and now regrets the decision.
                         It’s amazing how one item can turn a cute-looking animal into one of the ugliest-looking Animal Crossing: New Horizons villagers. Zucker looks even more disturbing in the close-up picture that PrivateIslandPresent posted. Some of the comments under the clip tried to guess what was the closest thing that Zucker looked like while wearing the Silly Glasses, with one commenter saying Fungus from Monsters, Inc. and another responding with Steve Buscemi. Surprisingly, no one mentioned Doctor Octopus.
      Animal Crossing: New Horizons is available now for Nintendo Switch.
      MORE: How to Pick the Perfect Villager Gift in Animal Crossing: New Horizons
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. A feature that has been present since Call of Duty: World at War is being removed by Treyarch from Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 Zombies mode. Geoff Keighley teases something that captures the attention of Dying Light fans leading up to Gamescom's imminent Opening Night Live event. Ranga's evolution throughout the series is a narrative reflection of his growth from a simple Direwolf to a powerful guardian of Rimuru. Cult of the Lamb players can modify a Fleece's appearance while maintaining its abilities - here's how. Destiny 2 players may be taking a break until the final Act of Episode: Echoes releases, but the 2024 Solstice Event is arguably worth returning for.
 A new game published by PQube reveals strong influences from classic JRPGs, especially from Sega's 2000 classic Skies of Arcadia. A Red Dead Redemption 2 player wraps up their 100% completion run in a perfect and emotional way, resonating with the game's community.