UP bypoll results: In the Chhanbey (SC) assembly seat, SP's Kirti Kol is trailing behind Apna Dal (Sonelal)'s Rinki Kol.  UP assembly byelection results: BJP ally Apna Dal (S) leading in Chhanbey BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) is ahead of the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh's Chhanbey assembly seat, byelections for which were held this month, according to the latest trends. UP bypolls: BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) leads in Chhanbey assembly seats, according to EC website  UP byelection result 2023: Apna Dal (S) takes lead Apna Dal (S) candidate Rinki Kole takes a sudden lead in Chhanbey with 44,455 votes. SP's Kirti Kole trailing with 43,888 votes. UP byelection 2023 results: Update from Chhanbey SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with 41,513 votes wheras Apna Dal (S) candidate Rinki Kol trailing with 41,922 votes. UP assembly byelection results: Update from Chhanbey Shafiq Ahmad Ansari, BJP ally Apna Dal (S) candidate who won Suar assembly bypoll UP byelection 2023 results: Apna Dal (S) wins Suar assembly seat Apna Dal (S), BJP alliance, candidate Shafeeq Ahmad Ansari wins Suar seat by over 8,000 votes. Uttar Pradesh byelection results: SP, Apna Dal lead in one seat each Latest trends of Uttar Pradesh byelections showed Samajwadi Party and Apna Dal leading on one seat each, according to Election Commission's data. Samajwadi Party is leading in the Suar constituency and Apana Dal is leading in Chhanbey. Suar assembly seat in Rampur district was declared vacant on February 13 after a Moradabad court sentenced Abdullah Azam Khan, the son of senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, to two years in jail in a 15-year-old case. Latest trends of Uttar Pradesh byelections showed Samajwadi Party and Apna Dal leading on one seat each, according to Election Commission's data. Samajwadi Party is leading in the Suar constituency and Apana Dal is leading in Chhanbey. Suar assembly seat in Rampur district was declared vacant on February 13 after a Moradabad court sentenced Abdullah Azam Khan, the son of senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, to two years in jail in a 15-year-old case. UP byelection 2023 results: Latest trends in Chhanbey and Suar UP assembly byelection results 2023: SP continues to lead in Chhanbey SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with 23,752 votes. UP assembly bypolls: SP's Kirti Kol leads from Chhanbey (SC) seat, Shafeek Ahmed Ansari of Apna Dal (Sonelal) ahead in Suar, according to EC website.  Chhanbey byelection result latest EC trends UP byelection results 2023: Update from Chhanbey and Suar SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with 18,572 votes. Apna Dal (S) candidate Shafeek Ahmed Ansari contesting on Suar seat is leading with 16,614 votes. UP byelection 2023 results: In Chhanbey, SP's Kirit Kol maintains her lead SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with 16,273 votes whereas Apna Dal (Soneylal) candidate Rinki Kol trails with 12,969. UP bypoll results: Update from Suar UP byelection 2023 results: SP candidate Kirit Kol ahead in Chhanbey SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with margin of 3,449 votes. Apna Dal (S) candidate Shafeek Ahmed Ansari contesting on Suar seat is leading with margin of 4,499 votes. SP candidate Kirti Kol contesting on Chhanbey seat is leading with margin of 3,449 votes. Apna Dal (S) candidate Shafeek Ahmed Ansari contesting on Suar seat is leading with margin of 4,499 votes. UP byelection results: Update from Suar According to latest EC trends, Apna Dal (S) candidate Shafeek Ahmed Ansari is ahead of SP candidate Anuradha Chauhan in Suar. Uttar Pradesh bypoll results latest trends Uttar Pradesh byelection result: Update from Suar As per latest EC trends, Apna Dal (S) candidate Shafeek Ahmed Ansari leads in Suar with 3,625 votes whereas SP candidate Anuradha Chauhan trails with 3,003 votes. UP byelection 2023 results: Direct contest between BJP's ally and SP The bypolls were held in the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district and Chhanbey (SC) in Mirzapur district on May 10. There was a direct contest between the ruling coalition led by the BJP and the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) on both seats, political analysts say. The bypolls were held in the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district and Chhanbey (SC) in Mirzapur district on May 10. There was a direct contest between the ruling coalition led by the BJP and the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) on both seats, political analysts say. UP byelection results: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav expresses hope that EC will make public tally of votes after every round of counting. UP byelection results 2023: Why bypolls held in Suar and Chhanbey The Suar assembly seat fell vacant after Abdullah Azam was disqualified, following his conviction in a criminal case while the Chhanbey seat was declared vacant after the demise of sitting MLA Rahul Kol. UP bypoll results 2023: Counting of votes begins in Suar and Chhanbey  UP bypoll results 2023: Counting of votes to begin shortly  UP bypoll results 2023: Ruling coalition partner Apna Dal (Sonelal) contesting both seats.  UP bypoll results: All arrangements in place for counting of votes Police have enhanced the security at all the counting centres and restricted the entry of phones or any kind of weapon inside the counting centre. As per the officials, counting for the votes will start at 8am and all the necessary arrangements have been made for the same. Police have enhanced the security at all the counting centres and restricted the entry of phones or any kind of weapon inside the counting centre. As per the officials, counting for the votes will start at 8am and all the necessary arrangements have been made for the same. UP bypolls: Stage set for counting of votes in Suar and Chhanbey Counting of votes for Suar and Chhanbey assembly constituencies will begin at 8am amid tight security in and around the counting centres. Polling for the seats was held on May 10. UP bypoll results 2023: SP's 'voter harassment' claims in Suar Similarly in Rampur’s Suar assembly constituency, Samajwadi Party claimed that residents were been harassed and were not allowed to cast their voters, especially in Muslim-dominated areas — Tanda, Dadiyal, Lambakheda, Akabarabad, Rasulpur, Faridpur, Khempur and Malik Qazi areas. UP bypoll results: Samajwadi Party's voter suppression allegations in Chhanbey During the bypolls on May 10, the Samajwadi Party alleged that in Chhanbey constituency at booth numbers 289, 195 and 291 which are primarily dominated by Muslims, Bind and Kol communities, voters were pressurized and harassed by Apna Dal party workers in front of local administration. UP byelection results: Which party and candidate won Suar seat in 2022 polls In both the 2017 and 2022 assembly elections, Abdullah Azam Khan, a member of the Samajwadi Party, emerged victorious from the Suar constituency. UP bypoll results 2023: Voter turnout recorded on May 10 Voting for the seats was held on May 10. However, the polling percentage dipped in the byelection on two UP assembly seats as compared to 2022. Suar recorded 44.95% polling and Chhanbey recorded 39.51% amid allegations by the Samajwadi Party that officials prevented people from casting votes in some booths. The turnout was lower than 2022 assembly polls when Chhanbey registered 57.91% polling and Suar 69. 34% polling. Voting for the seats was held on May 10. However, the polling percentage dipped in the byelection on two UP assembly seats as compared to 2022. Suar recorded 44.95% polling and Chhanbey recorded 39.51% amid allegations by the Samajwadi Party that officials prevented people from casting votes in some booths. The turnout was lower than 2022 assembly polls when Chhanbey registered 57.91% polling and Suar 69. 34% polling. UP byelection results: Why seats fell vacant in Suar and Chhanbey The Suar assembly seat fell vacant after Abdullah Azam was disqualified, following his conviction in a criminal case while the Chhanbey seat was declared vacant after the demise of sitting MLA Rahul Kol. UP bypolls results 2023: Bipolar contest between BJP's ally Apna Dal (S) and SP The two seats saw a bipolar contest between BJP ally Apna Dal(S) and the Samajwadi Party. BSP and Congress have given it a skip by not fielding candidates. The two seats saw a bipolar contest between BJP ally Apna Dal(S) and the Samajwadi Party. BSP and Congress have given it a skip by not fielding candidates. UP bypoll results 2023: Counting of votes to begin at 8am The counting of votes for the byelections to two key UP assembly seats - Suar in Rampur and Chhanbey reserved seat in Mirzapur - will begin at 8am.