To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. Learn more. From music streaming to video calling, the internet has given us so much. It has also made it much easier to get to your computer when you're not actually sitting in front of it. There are now numerous remote access programs to choose from that will connect one computer to another across the web. What's more, a lot of the basic tools are free to use. Windows and macOS both have built-in remote access tools, but they’re not particularly straightforward to use, nor are they cross-platform. That’s why we’re focusing on free third-party options here. Get one of these tools, and you'll no longer have to worry about leaving a file on the office PC, or be without software on your work computer when you're at home. As long as you have a remote access program in place at both ends of the connection, you can log in to one laptop or desktop from another. Chrome Remote Desktop runs in the Chrome browser. Chrome Remote Desktop from Google works inside the Chrome browser, as you would expect from the name, but you're not limited to working inside the browser. The tool gives you full access to any computer you set it up on. As long as you have Google Chrome installed on a system, you can access it. On the computer you'd like to connect to, load up the Chrome Remote Desktop page in your Chrome browser, log in to your Google account if prompted, and then click the little download icon next to Set up remote access. You'll then have to download and install a small utility that handles all of the behind-the-scenes work. Follow the instructions onscreen. You'll need to give your computer a name so you can identify it in the future, and specify a six-digit PIN that controls access to it. When you're done, the system is listed on the Chrome Remote Desktop page. Click the pen icon next to it to change its name, or the trash can icon to remove it from the list. On the computer you're connecting from, head to the Chrome Remote Desktop page inside your browser, but this time, click on the computer you want to connect to. After a few seconds, the connection should be established, and you can operate the computer through your browser. Click the arrow on the side to access the program options, including how the system you're accessing remotely is resized in your browser window. TeamViewer sets up your computer for remote access and you're good to go. TeamViewer is pretty straightforward to configure, and free for personal use. Features for teams and businesses require a subscription, but as long as you're just using it as an individual and getting at your own computers over the web, you don't have to pay anything to use it. On both the computer you're connecting to and the computer you're connecting from, install the TeamViewer application from the website (follow the Free download, Download free, and TeamViewer Full Client links). You're also going to need a free TeamViewer account, but you can sign up in the app if you don't have one. With all of that done and the software up on your computer, head to Remote devices and then pick Set up remote access on this device. That'll take you through the steps required to configure the laptop or desktop you're on so that you can access it remotely going forward. Make a note of the ID and password displayed in the TeamViewer client, as you'll need these details to connect from TeamViewer on another computer. Just click Connect here and plug in the details to establish the connection. There's also the option to create a link for establishing remote access, but this works best when there's a person at each end. The code system in AnyDesk couldn't be any simpler to use. Last but not least, AnyDesk is similar to TeamViewer in that businesses are charged for the software, but individuals can use it for free. You need to get the AnyDesk software set up at both ends of the remote connection, but once that's done, getting the two systems working together couldn't be more straightforward. When you run the AnyDesk software, you'll see a numerical code onscreen—just enter that code into AnyDesk on another computer, and the connection is made. You don't even need to register an account with AnyDesk, although without one you're limited to 30-minute sessions. There is a bit of setup required if you want to connect to a computer in unattended mode, without anyone there to accept the connection request. In AnyDesk on the computer you want to connect to, open the app menu (top right), then choose Set password. This password will enable remote access. Enter the AnyDesk code from your remote computer into AnyDesk running on the computer you're set in front of, and you're good to go. The remote desktop and applications are displayed inside the AnyDesk interface, and you've got access to several useful features, including file transfer tools. WIRED has teamed up with Jobbio to create WIRED Hired, a dedicated career marketplace for WIRED readers. Companies who want to advertise their jobs can visit WIRED Hired to post open roles, while anyone can search and apply for thousands of career opportunities. Jobbio is not involved with this story or any editorial content. In your inbox: The best and weirdest stories from WIRED’s archive How the brain decides what to remember The Big Story: Meet Priscila, queen of the rideshare mafia Silicon Valley's soulless plutocrats flip for Donald Trump Event: Join us for The Big Interview on December 3 in San Francisco Turbo Tax Live Assisted - 10% off H&R Block Coupons & Offers Enjoy $15 Off Your Orders With Instacart Coupon Dyson Airwrap deal: Free $60 Case + $40 Gift Get Up To An Extra 45% Off August Sale Vista Print Coupon Code: 20% Off Select Signage More From WIRED Reviews and Guides © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices