Read 1Password’s report to learn about how open people are to using passwordless technology, and why passkeys are the answer. Get the report. Iran’s APT Charming Kitten, sponsored by Tehran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC),  has been seen using a new strain of malware known as BellaCiao, Bitdefender reported this morning. The group, known also by many names (including Mint Sandstorm, Phosphorus, APT35, and APT42) uses this individually-tailored dropper to deliver payloads from their command-and-control (C2) server. Bitdefender said that “Each sample collected was tied up to a specific victim and included hardcoded information such as company name, specially crafted subdomains, or associated public IP address.” The malware has been seen in use against victims in the US and Europe, but also against targets in Turkey and India. The exact point of infection is unknown, but researchers conjecture a Microsoft Exchange exploit chain software vulnerability, or something similar. The researchers suspect the Italian moniker for this Iranian-native malware, BellaCiao, may be a reference to a folk song of the same name about resistance fighters. Take lead in a global community of security pros. Be a speaker at mWISE. Researchers at Palo Alto’s Unit 42 discovered a new malware strain they’re calling “PingPull.” It’s used by Tarus, a cyberespionage group attributed to China. PingPull targets Linux machines and has been used in conjunction with the Sword2033 backdoor. Unit 42 explained that although Tarus has been historically active against telecommunications companies in Asia, Europe, and Africa, recently researchers have noticed increased activity spreading to financial institutions and government entities. “Alloy Taurus remains an active threat to telecommunications, finance and government organizations across Southeast Asia, Europe and Africa. The identification of a Linux variant of PingPull malware, as well as recent use of the Sword2033 backdoor, suggests that the group continues to evolve their operations in support of their espionage activities. We encourage all organizations to leverage our findings to inform the deployment of protective measures to defend against this threat group.” Broaden the reach of your ads, fill your funnel, and build partnerships with valuable leads. Having the industry’s largest B2B podcast network, popular newsletters, and influential readers and listeners all over the world, means companies trust us to get their messages out. Feature your brand with the source that top security leaders choose. Learn more. BitSight reported today that they had discovered a new high-severity exploit for the Service Location Protocol. “SLP is a protocol that was created in 1997 through RFC 2165 to provide a dynamic configuration mechanism for applications in local area networks.” The exploit dubbed CVE-2023-29552 allows attackers to launch DoS attacks against open SLP instances. CISA explains “The Service Location Protocol (SLP, RFC 2608) allows an unauthenticated remote attacker to register arbitrary services. This could allow an attacker to use spoofed UDP traffic to conduct a denial-of-service (DoS) attack with a significant amplification factor.” BITSIGHT explained “Attackers exploiting this vulnerability could leverage vulnerable instances to launch massive Denial-of-Service (DoS) amplification attacks with a factor as high as 2200 times, potentially making it one of the largest amplification attacks ever reported.” BITSIGHT urges businesses to disable SLP on devices connected to the open internet and if that is not possible “then firewalls should be configured to filter traffic on UDP and TCP port 427. This will prevent external attackers from accessing the SLP service.” The Five Eyes alliance is seeing a rising threat from ransomware, Infosecurity Magazine reports. Felicity Oswald, the United Kingdom’s National Cyber Security Centre’s (NCSC) COO, noted at the RSAC conference that ransomware continues to be pervasive in the UK, as very little skill is required to implement the malware. “Ransomware is the most destructive form of cybercrime facing Australia,” said Rita Erfurt, threat intelligence senior executive at the Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC). CDO Trends reports that a study from Rubrik on data security says that 72% of organizations have actually paid hackers using ransomware, yet only 16% saw success in data retrieval using attacker-supplied tools. National representatives in attendance; from the UK, Australia, the US, and Canada, noted that their national cybersecurity strategies are currently in the works or have recently been published. Infosecurity Magazine notes that Canada and Australia’s cyber strategies are still in development and under review. The UK saw the release of its national strategy in December of last year, and the US finalized theirs last month. Radware issued a report this morning offering an overview of the current state of hacktivism. Much of the genuine politically motivated actions have pursued familiar targets--Israel, for example, comes in at number one among the countries targeted--but the emergence of hacktivist organizations serving as cyber auxiliaries to governments, especially the Russian government, is a noteworthy development. The Russian hacktivist organizations include KillNet, NoName057(16) (which wants everyone to understand that they're not working for KillNet) and the Passion Group (which began its career as a KillNet affiliate, but which has recently shown signs of morphing into a profit-driven criminal gang with an advocacy side hustle). Radware's conclusion sums up the record the Russian hacktivists have compiled: "Pro-Russian hacktivists have been actively attacking anyone who supports Ukraine or goes against Russia for over a year now. Killnet has been dedicated to its cause and has had the time to build experience and increase its circle of influence across affiliate pro-Russian hacktivist groups. We’ve seen groups like NoName057(16) successfully exploring crowd-sourced botnets with financial incentives and Passion group providing DDoS-as-a-service attacks to like-minded groups. While NoName057(16) is the major force to be reckoned with in terms of DDoS attacks, Killnet’s influence, reach and tactics are growing and changing, and they are not showing signs of slowing down or retiring soon." Ukraine is collecting evidence of alleged Russian war crimes, with a view toward both prosecuting those responsible (should they become available for prosecution) or at least toward ensuring the preservation of the historical record, and assuring that the history is told accurately. In this effort they're receiving international assistance, some of it from the US Federal Bureau of Investigation. These investigations are groundbreaking in that so much of the relevant evidence is digital, CyberScoop reports. Digital forensics will be important not only for investigating cyberattacks against civilian infrastructure, but also for geolocation of perpetrators in the vicinity of their crimes. We would add two other potential spheres of investigation: collection of communications authorizing and organizing atrocities, and collection of communications that amount to incitement. The CyberWire's continuing coverage of Russia's war against Ukraine, with special attention to the cyber phases of that war, may be found here. Today's issue includes events affecting Australia, Belarus, Canada, China, the European Union, Iran, Israel, Lithuania, New Zealand, Russia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Ukraine at D+426: Waiting for the spring offensive. (CyberWire) As Ukraine continues to prepare for its spring offensive (and Russia continues to chew on Bakhmut), digital evidence of atrocities is being collected. Russia-Ukraine war at a glance: what we know on day 427 of the invasion (the Guardian) Strike on Kharkiv museum kills one, injures 10; number of Russian casualties drops in April after failure of winter offensive Russia-Ukraine war live: Xi and Zelenskiy hold talks; Russian aircraft ‘intercepted in international airspace’ (the Guardian) Ukrainian president reports ‘long and meaningful’ call with Chinese president Russia introduces new 'propaganda' tank to battlefield (Telegraph) Moscow uses T-14 Armatas with remote-controlled guns to fire on Ukrainian positions, despite warnings of their 'poor condition' Putin’s dreams of a new Russian Empire are unraveling in Ukraine (Atlantic Council) Putin saw the invasion of Ukraine as a key step toward rebuilding the Russian Empire. Instead, it has forced countries across the former Soviet Union to distance themselves from the Kremlin, writes Mark Temnycky. Three logical flaws stand in the way of a sufficient response to the Ukraine challenge (Atlantic Council) The West must make sacrifices in the present to secure the future. Britain will consign Putin and his energy war to the dustbin of history (The Telegraph) Solidifying our energy security, and in turn our sovereignty, is a marathon not a sprint Hacktivism Unveiled, April 2023 Insights into the footprints of hacktivists (Radware) This data-driven report provides insights into DDoS attacks claimed by hacktivists between February 18 and April 18, 2023.  Kaspersky Analyzes Links Between Russian State-Sponsored APTs (SecurityWeek) Kaspersky believes that Russia-linked threat actors Tomiris and Turla are cooperating at least at a minimum level. FBI aiding Ukraine in collection of digital and physical war crime evidence (CyberScoop) U.S. law enforcement is helping officials in Kyiv process the huge amounts of data from investigations of alleged war crimes. Russia’s invasion highlights the need to invest more in Ukrainian studies (Atlantic Council) The full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine has highlighted the need for greater international investment into Ukrainian studies but has also created huge challenges for Ukrainian academia, writes Oleksandra Gaidai. Defiance and resilience: Ukraine's financial sector (American Banker) A year after Russia's invasion of Ukraine thrust the country into chaos, financial services workers are helping to rebuild the country and are expressing hope for the future. Unpacking BellaCiao: A Closer Look at Iran’s Latest Malware (Bitdefender Blog) With recent reports that Charming Kitten group (aka Mint Sandstorm) is actively targeting critical infrastructure in the US and other countries, we would like to share the most recent insights from Bitdefender Labs about modernization of Charming Kitten’s tactics, techniques, and procedures, including a new, previously unseen malware. Chinese Alloy Taurus Updates PingPull Malware (Unit 42) A PingPull malware variant for Linux has been found. We’re also tracking a new backdoor attributed to Alloy Taurus called Sword2033. Abuse of the Service Location Protocol May Lead to DoS Attacks (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency CISA) The Service Location Protocol (SLP, RFC 2608) allows an unauthenticated remote attacker to register arbitrary services. This could allow an attacker to use spoofed UDP traffic to conduct a denial-of-service (DoS) attack with a significant amplification factor. Google Audit Finds Vulnerabilities in Intel TDX (SecurityWeek) Google researchers identified ten security defects in Intel TDX, including nine vulnerabilities addressed with TDX code changes. Thales Seizes Control of ESA Demonstration Satellite in First Cybersecurity Exercise of Its Kind (Business Wire) For the third edition of CYSAT, the European event entirely dedicated to cybersecurity for the space industry, taking place on 26-27 April 2023 at Station F in Paris, the European Space Agency (ESA) set up a satellite test bench to simulate attempts to seize control of OPS-SAT, a nanosatellite operated by the agency for demonstration purposes. Hackers to show they can take over a European Space Agency satellite (Record) Experts from French defense giant Thales and members of a team from the European Space Agency are presenting their findings at the CYSAT conference in Paris.  #RSAC: Ransomware Poses Growing Threat to Five Eyes Nations (Infosecurity Magazine) Representatives of four of the five Five Eyes nations outlined the growing threat ransomware poses and approaches to thwart it  Ransomware re-emerges as hackers ‘make up for lost time’: Zywave Cyber Risk 2023 (Insurance Insider) The re-emergence of ransomware as a major cyber threat, with actors displaying increasingly aggressive tactics, was a key theme at the Zywave Cyber Risk Insights Conference in London.   CIC Group, Inc. Notifies Individuals of Recent Data Breach (JD Supra) On April 24, 2023, CIC Group, Inc. filed a notice of data breach with the Texas Attorney General’s Office after learning that confidential consumer... IMA Financial Group, Inc. Files Notice of 2022 Data Breach (JD Supra) On April 19, 2023, IMA Financial Group, Inc. (“IMA”) filed a notice of data breach with the Attorney General of Texas after experiencing a data... Irrigation Systems in Israel Hit with Cyber Attack that Temporarily Disabled Farm Equipment (CPO Magazine) A cyber attack that targeted irrigation systems in Israel is thought to be part of an annual “hacktivist” campaign that takes place every April, and this year’s attempt at least managed to cause a nuisance for some farms in the Jordan Valley. Defense Contractors in the Cyber Crosshairs – U.S. Shipbuilders Hit in Cyberattacks (ClearanceJobs) With cyber attacks on the rise, some experts are warning that the nation's defense industrial base could be a target. CISA Releases Two Industrial Control Systems Advisories (CyberSecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)) CISA Releases Two Industrial Control Systems Advisories for Scada-LTS versions 2.7.4 and prior, and N8844A Data Analytics Web Service. VMware fixes critical zero-day exploit chain used at Pwn2Own (BleepingComputer) VMware has released security updates to address zero-day vulnerabilities that could be chained to gain code execution systems running unpatched versions of the company's Workstation and Fusion software hypervisors. Google Authenticator now supports Google Account synchronization (Google Online Security Blog) Christiaan Brand, Group Product Manager We are excited to announce an update to Google Authenticator ,  across both iOS and Android, which a... Quarterly Report: Incident Response Trends in Q1 2023 (Cisco Talos Blog) In 45 percent of engagements, attackers exploited public-facing applications to establish initial access, a significant increase from 15 percent the previous quarter. New Silobreaker research reveals organisations are slow to disclose ransomware attacks (Silobreaker) An analysis of how delayed, incomplete disclosures can place customers and third parties at heightened risk of disruption. Silobreaker, a leading security and threat intelligence technology company, today released the findings of its study into how quickly and thoroughly organisations disclose that they have been hit by ransomware. The research looked at 430 known ransomware... Cyberattackers Leveraged More Than 500 Unique Tools and Tactics in 2022, Sophos’ Active Adversary Report for Business Leaders Finds (GlobeNewswire News Room) The Most Common Root Causes of Attacks Were Unpatched Vulnerabilities and Compromised Credentials, While Ransomware Continues to Be the Most Common “End... Global Threat Intelligence Report April (BlackBerry) Delivering Actionable and Contextualized Intelligence to Increase Cyber Resilience. Reporting Period: December 2022 – February 2023. New Research From Absolute Software Underscores Security and Compliance Challenges Remain Across Distributed Workforces (Business Wire) Report reveals OS fragmentation, endpoint and network complexity creating false sense of security for enterprises Survey Reveals Scale of Brand Imposter Risks to Consumers (YouMail Protective Services) YouMail Protective Services survey on the frequency and impact of the growing problem of brand impersonation scam calls and texts has shocking discoveries  Teenagers, young adults pose prevalent cyberthreat to US, Mandiant says (Cybersecurity Dive) The brains behind high-profile attacks last year, teenagers and young adults use sophisticated social engineering techniques for intrusions. The truth about teens, social media and the mental health crisis (NPR) A striking decline in teen mental health has coincided with the rise of smartphones and social media. Is social media causing the mental health challenges? Finally, research can answer that question. M&A Exits For VC-Backed Cyber Startups Continues To Sputter (Crunchbase News) M&A deal-making in the cybersecurity space continues to slow with only 13 deals announced for VC-backed startups in Q1, per Crunchbase data. Cyber doesn't have a skills gap, says Holly Foxcroft  (Computing) Understanding neurodiversity can help bring more people into cybersecurity, says keynote speaker Holly Foxcroft. WSJ News Exclusive | PricewaterhouseCoopers to Pour $1 Billion Into Generative AI (Wall Street Journal) Multiyear investment in U.S. business includes accessing ChatGPT maker OpenAI’s language model, training staff in AI capabilities. Clearspeed Announces Momentum Led By 200% Client Growth and Global Management Expansion (Business Wire) The Voice Analytics Technology Company is Building ‘Trust Faster’ with a Record Past Year of Doubling Client Base, Launching New Solutions and a New Brand Identity, and the Appointment of Three New Executives to Fuel Insurance and Security Sectors Bishop Fox Announces UK Expansion at RSA Conference Amidst Growing Global Momentum (GlobeNewswire News Room) Offensive security powerhouse achieves CREST accreditation, bringing award-winning Attack Surface Management, Red Teaming, and Pen Testing solutions to new... Quorum Cyber Sets Sights on North America (Security Today) UK-based cybersecurity firm Quorum Cyber has announced its intention to focus on the North American market after achieving impressive year-over-year growth. Retired NSA director won lucrative consulting deals with Saudis, Japan (Washington Post) Retired Army Gen. Keith Alexander, who led the National Security Agency under Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush, secured $2 million in consulting deals with foreign governments after leaving office, including a $700,000 contract to advise Saudi Arabia on cybersecurity after the 2018 killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, newly released records show. SAIC bags $889M contract for Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (Seeking Alpha) Science Applications International (SAIC) has been awarded a $889M contract by the Federal Systems Integration and Management Center in support of Defense Counterintelligence and... US-based Palantir Technologies plans to establish a regional hub of big data competencies in Vilnius  (Benzinga) Palantir Technologies Inc., a software and services company which specializes in big data analysis, plans to expand its operations in Lithuania, after entering into a strategic partnership, together with the Ministry of CyberGRX Announces Winners of the Inaugural Cyber Risk Nation Awards (Business Wire) Awarded individuals and companies are trailblazers in Third-Party Risk Management Mimecast Announces Two New Executive Appointments to Drive Customer and Operational Excellence (Yahoo Finance) Jeff Hess and Purnima Jandial Join Corporate Leadership Team as Part of Amplified Organizational Focus on Customer Centricity Vade Announces René Bonvanie as New Executive Board Member (Vade) Former CMO of Palo Alto Networks and advisor to start-ups and VCs joins Vade during rapid business expansion. Enterprise Software Veteran Rita Selvaggi Joins BackBox (BackBox Software) BackBox announced that IT software industry leader Rita Selvaggi has joined the BackBox board of directors. Ron Gula Joins Conceal’s Board of Directors (Business Wire) Conceal, the leader in Zero Trust web-browser isolation technology, today announced that Ron Gula has joined its Board of Directors. As a member of the Board, Ron will use his deep experience as a technologist and business leader to support the further development of Conceal’s critical security products and help ensure its widespread adoption and deployment to protect individuals and enterprises from malicious actors. Gurucul Disrupts Next-Gen SIEM Market with Unparalleled Observability, Data Searchability and Identity-Based Threat Detection and Response (Business Wire) Enhancements to award-winning platform solves critical security issues while enabling reliability at scale, reduced TCO and fast time to value Token Debuts Next-Generation MFA at RSA Conference 2023 to Stop Phishing and Ransomware Attacks (Business Wire) Innovative multifactor authentication smart ring removes human vulnerabilities and implements in minutes to deliver passwordless, FIDO2-compliant network and cloud security HashiCorp and Microsoft collaborate to help organizations adopt a zero trust security strategy (GlobeNewswire News Room) Customer adoption of identity-based security accelerates with availability of HCP Vault Plus on Azure; HashiCorp joins Microsoft Intelligent Security... Cynet Unveils Major Product Release Ahead of RSA with Updates to Endpoint Detection and Prevention Services, New Mobile Capabilities and More (Business Wire) This year’s RSA Conference will be a major event for Cynet as the company prepares to roll out the newest version of its cybersecurity solution for lean IT teams Forcepoint Delivers Data Security Everywhere, Extending DLP Policies from Endpoints to the Cloud (Business WIre) Data Security Simplified: Forcepoint ONE SSE integration extends enterprise DLP to the cloud and web; with just a few clicks all DLP policies applied across CASB, SWG and ZTNA channels. Security ROI Simplified: Forcepoint ONE Insights optimizes the value and efficacy of security investments through interactive, at-a-glance analytics for business leaders and security professionals Dig Security Announces New Integration with CrowdStrike and Delivers the First Data Security Posture Management (DSPM) Offering with Malware Analysis (PR Newswire) Dig, the cloud data security leader, today announced its new technology integration with CrowdStrike, a leader in cloud-delivered protection of... NCC Group appoints its first Strategy and Transformation Director (Mynewsdesk) We are pleased to announce the appointment of Diji Akinwale to the role of Director of Strategy and Transformation with immediate effect.  Elastic joins CISA’s Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative (JCDC) to defend against US cyber threats (Elastic Blog) Elastic has officially become a member of the US Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative (JCDC). We see this as an opportunity to contribute our expertise and collaborate with other leading organizations in the fight against cybersecurity threats. Akamai Introduces Prolexic Network Cloud Firewall (Akamai) New Capability Expands Prolexic Protections with Firewall and Access Control Capabilities Panorays Launches Risk Insights and Response Portal, Turning Panorays into the Industry’s First End-to-End Solution for Third-Party Security Risk Management (GlobeNewswire News Room) The new portal being launched at RSA will give organizations full visibility and control over supply chain risks, speeding up response and mitigation time... Talon Cyber Security Announces New Integrations with CrowdStrike to Deliver Comprehensive Visibility for Robust Threat Protection (Talon Cyber Security) Talon’s Enterprise Browser Expands Integrations with CrowdStrike Falcon Platform to Provide Powerful Security Control for Customers Code42 Now Offers Real-Time Blocking Capabilities (Code42) Code42 Software, Inc., the Insider Risk Management (IRM) leader, today announced that it has added real-time blocking capabilities to the IncydrTM IRM solution. The enhancement allows security teams to prevent unacceptable data exfiltration without the management burden, inaccuracy, and endpoint impact of content-based policies. Insider Risk is emerging as the most difficult threat to detect […] Cisco joins the AI wave — to protect against misuse of the technology (Morningstar, Inc.) Cisco execs caution that OpenAI's ChatGPT will make phishing attempts in particular harder to detect Second Front Systems and Snowflake Announce Partnership (PR Newswire) Second Front Systems, a public-benefit software company focused on accelerating the delivery of mission-critical software-as-a-service (SaaS)... Defence consultancy launches digital forensics lab (Insider Media Ltd) Defence consultancy CDS Defence and Security, part of the Bailie Group, has launched a new digital forensics lab. Recorded Future Launches New Capabilities to Enhance Threat Visibility, Increase Automation, and Reduce Threat Exposure (AsiaOne) Company Announces Intelligence Analytics to Prioritize the Threats Most Likely to Target Organizations Canon India partners with ESET; forays into cyber-security domain (India Technology News) Canon India partners with ESET; forays into cyber-security domain Coalfire Wins Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Management Awards in the Prestigious 11th Annual Global InfoSec Awards (PR Newswire) Coalfire is proud to announce the acceptance of three coveted awards in Cyber Defense Magazine's 11th anniversary of the Global InfoSec Awards:... Uptycs Launches Cloud Security Early Warning System (Uptycs) Uptycs announces the ability to collect and analyze GitHub audit logs and user identity information from Okta and Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). ThreatX Expands API & Application Protection With New Botnet Console, API Catalog 2.0 (Business Wire) The new dashboards enable security teams to stay ahead of rapidly evolving, automated threats, more effectively protecting APIs and applications Xcitium announces integration of Intel® Threat Detection Technology to add hardware-based Ransomware detection to patented detection-less cybersecurity platform (GlobeNewswire News Room) Today at RSA San Francisco, Xcitium the cybersecurity industry's only provider of ZeroDwell Containment... Ambient.ai Announces Integration with Software House’s C•CURE 9000 for AI-Powered Alert Prioritization (GlobeNewswire News Room) Ambient.ai, the computer vision intelligence company helping to transform physical security, today... CISA, Cyber National Mission Force Leaders Share How They Partner: First-Ever Ops Revealed to Industry (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency sent this bulletin at 04/25/2023 01:40 PM EDT NIST Releases Draft Post-Quantum Encryption Document (Nextgov.com) The agency continues its post-quantum cryptography push as it looks to create guidance for all sectors. Cyber Chiefs Forge Partnerships With Physical Security Units as Combined Threats Grow (Wall Street Journal) AI can help identify potential cyber-physical attacks, says Schneider Electric CIO Elizabeth Hackenson. A Security Team Is Turning This Malware Gang’s Tricks Against It (WIRED) The cybercriminals behind the Gootloader malware have found clever ways to avoid detection. But researchers are using those same mechanisms to stop them. Excessive Data Access Leads to More Insider Attacks—Here’s How To Reduce Your Company’s Risk (Capterra) Our research finds that the amount of data access companies allow to employees foretells the extent to which they experience insider attacks. Worried about quantum breaking encryption? Give it 30 years (Register) RSA's Adi Shamir thinks we're safe for a generation, but more gnarly keys are still a good idea How ChatGPT and other advanced AI tools are helping secure the software supply chain (VentureBeat) AI tools like ChatGPT are improving intelligence gathering and detection and patching of vulnerabilities in the software supply chain. OpenAI Offers New Privacy Options for ChatGPT (Bloomberg) The startup will let people decide whether AI will train on the data they give the chatbot. New study from Yubico reveals now is the time to move from legacy authentication to modern, phishing-resistant MFA (Yubico) New study from Yubico reveals now is the time to move from legacy authentication to modern, phishing-resistant MFA (ISC)² Calls for Global Cybersecurity Standards based on New Research (PR Newswire) (ISC)² – the world's largest nonprofit association of certified cybersecurity professionals, and the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI),... Space, the latest frontier for cyberdefense (Washington Post) The Biden administration is going on the road to tackle satellite cybersecurity U.S. Cyber Plans Are Built to Endure Political Winds, Senior Security Official Says (Wall Street Journal) Kemba Walden, acting national cyber director, said broad bipartisan agreement means national cybersecurity agenda will survive administrations. National cyber strategy implementation will be ‘dynamic and iterative,’ acting National Cyber Director says (Record) A plan to enact the Biden administration’s recently released national cyber strategy could be published within the next few months, according to a senior White House official. Biden’s Cybersecurity Announcement - Some Subtle Points are Being Lost (onShore Security) Biden’s Cybersecurity Announcement – Some Subtle Points Are Being Lost – Stel Valavanis The Biden Administration recently announced a new, […] CISA establishing ‘systemically important entities’ office (Federal News Network) CISA is working to identify a subset of critical infrastructure that underpin the economy, national security and public health and safety. Senate Republicans call on Biden administration to clamp down on cloud companies with ties to China | CNN Business (CNN) A group of Republican senators on Tuesday urged the Biden administration to "use all available tools" to sanction cloud computing firms with links to China. WSJ News Exclusive | TikTok Ban in Montana Faces Speed Bump as Governor Seeks Changes (Wall Street Journal) Gov. Greg Gianforte is requesting amendments to the bill to broaden it to all social-media apps that provide certain data to foreign adversaries. Washington Gov. Inslee signs bill expanding cyber governance (StateScoop) The new law creates two new panels to advise the governor's office and the state CIO on emerging threats and incident response practices. Bill proposes new DHS centers for testing security of critical government tech  (Record) The legislation by Democratic Rep. Ritchie Torres is based on recommendations from the Cyberspace Solarium Commission. New cyberspace test squadron activated (Eglin Air Force Base) New squadron will conduct cyber security, resiliency Brig. Gen. Wayne Barker to Head Army Intelligence & Electronic Warfare Office (Executive Gov) Looking for the latest Government Contracting News? Read about Brig. Gen. Wayne Barker to Head Army Intelligence & Electronic Warfare Office. DOJ urges CISOs to continue working with law enforcement ahead of Uber security chief’s sentencing (Record) Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco urged cybersecurity and compliance leaders to continue working with law enforcement agencies, tacitly responding to concerns raised by cybersecurity officials after the conviction of Uber’s former security chief. The Andy Warhol Copyright Case That Could Transform Generative AI (WIRED) The US Supreme Court’s upcoming decision could shift the interpretation of fair use law—and all the people, and tools, that turn to it for protection. For a complete running list of events, please visit the Event Tracker. RSAC 2023 (San Francisco, California, USA, Apr 24 - 27, 2023) We couldn’t be more excited about the RSAC 2023 theme: Stronger Together. In the cybersecurity industry, no one goes it alone. Instead, we build on each other’s diverse knowledge to create the next breakthrough—exchanging ideas, sharing our success stories, and bravely examining our failures. Now that we’ve nailed the theme, we are hard at work planning the agenda, building out the RSAC Sandbox and other hands-on learning experiences, networking opportunities, and so much more. Already excited for next year? Us too! AFCEA Spring Intelligence Symposium (Springfiled, Virginia, USA, Apr 25 - 26, 2023) The 41st annual AFCEA Intelligence Symposium returns to the NGA Campus East in Springfield, Virginia on April 25-26, 2023. This classified (TS/SI/TK/NOFORN) two-day flagship intelligence event is a forum for Intelligence Community professionals and an ideal venue for learning and networking. The symposium will focus on government, industry and academia partnering essential to meeting the intelligence demands posed by an ever more integrated cross-domain threat. Our discussions will be informed by an Intelligence Community assessment of this environment and the capabilities needed to inform policy and operations within it. These insights will be deepened by consideration of lessons being learned from the war in Ukraine, initiatives being undertaken to defend space as the essential enabler of United States integrated domain operations, and the need for new approaches to deterrence in a multi-polar world. The risk from economic espionage will also be explored along with its impact on pursuing market opportunities while preserving operational advantage that derives from commercial space and other emerging disruptive technologies. Through these discussions, symposium participants will gain a more informed perspective on evolving intelligence requirements and the opportunities for partnerships to address them. Future Compute (Cambridge, and virtual, Massachussetts, USA, Apr 30 - May 1, 2023) Embrace emerging technologies to compete with compute. Future Compute offers CTOs and IT Leadership the emerging technology and strategy insight required to outpace change and ensure their digital infrastructure aligns to and exceeds business goals. TechNetCyber (Baltimore, Maryland, USA, May 2 - 4, 2023) The harnessing of the right cyber power is more important than ever in a domain deluged by persistent attacks and simultaneous sophisticated campaigns that threaten global political, economic and security interests. A flagship event, AFCEA’s TechNet Cyber serves as a center of gravity for a whole-of-government effort to bring together the policy, strategic architecture, operations and C2— along with the joint capabilities—needed to meet the global security challenges and successfully operate in a digital environment. Join us in Baltimore and be a part of the conversation led by U.S. Cyber Command, DISA, the DoD CIO, and numerous industry and academia partners to deliver solutions for this enduring, no-fail mission. SecureWorld Kansas City (Kansas City, Kansas, USA, May 3, 2023) Join your regional cybersecurity community for high-quality, affordable training and collaboration. Earn 6-12 CPE credits through 15+ educational elements learning from local and nationally recognized industry leaders. Attend featured keynotes, panel discussions, breakout sessions, and solution vendor displays—all while networking with peers in InfoSec.