
                
                    
                        Let CFO's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Amex veteran takes over as finance chief, Hynes joins Noodles & Co., Nike exec to lead finance at Papa Johns. Christophe Le Caillec will take over as CFO of American Express on Aug. 14. Le Caillec has worked at the credit card company for the last 25 years, most recently as deputy chief financial officer of American Express. Before that, he was the business CFO for American Express’ global consumer services group. He succeeds Jeffrey Campbell, who is retiring from the company after 10 years in the role. Campbell will stay with the company as vice chairman until March 2024.  Ravi Thanawala Papa Johns named Ravi Thanawala as the pizza chain’s new finance chief. For the last seven years, Thanawala worked at Nike, most recently as CFO of Nike North America. He was previously global vice president and CFO of the Converse brand at Nike. Thanawala replaces interim CFO Chris Collins, who will resume his role as vice president of tax and treasury. Mobileye Global’s vice president of finance, Moran Shemesh Rojansky, is stepping in as the autonomous driving technology company's acting CFO following the immediate departure of Anat Heller. Heller, who is stepping down for personal reasons, will continue at Mobileye as a strategic adviser. Rojansky joined the company in 2016 and previously worked in financial reporting roles at Tnuva and in several roles in the accounting consulting services and advisory group at PwC. Jonathan Root Jonathan Root, senior vice president of Harley-Davidson Financial Services (HDFS), has been named chief financial officer of Harley-Davidson. Root joined HDFS in 2011 and has held several roles across the company, including vice president of insurance. Before that, he held various roles at Ally Financial, GMAC Financial Services, and General Motors. Root replaces interim finance chief David Viney, who took over for Gina Goetter in April when she left the company to become CFO of toy company Hasbro. Noodles & Company hired Michael Hynes as the fast-casual restaurant chain’s new CFO. Hynes has held several finance and accounting roles since joining Ruth’s Hospitality Group in 2008. Most recently, he spent three years as vice president of finance and accounting for fine-dining steakhouse Ruth’s Chris. Before that, he held managerial positions in several accounting firms, including RSM and Deloitte.  David Farnsworth U.S. military chip maker Mercury Systems appointed David Farnsworth as finance chief. Farnsworth was most recently CFO of HawkEye 360, a radio frequency data analytics company. He previously held several roles within Raytheon, including vice president and CFO of its integrated defense systems business, CFO of its intelligence, information, and services segment, and CFO of its technical services business. Chad Seveland Upbring, a nonprofit child wellbeing organization, named Chad Seveland as CFO. Seveland was previously director of FP&A at Lone Star Circle of Care, a Texas nonprofit community health center, and later took over as vice president of finance. Before that, he held positions such as controller at Rigaku, co-owner of Valley Title, director of business analysis at Evenflo, and senior financial analyst at U.S. Airways. Motti Gil Motti Gil will take over as chief financial officer of gaming and iLottery provider NeoGames on Aug. 1. Since 2016, he has been CFO of iGaming company Aspire Global, including for five years when it was publicly listed. NeoGames acquired Aspire Global in June 2022. Gil previously spent seven years as the CFO of wireless technology company GoNet Systems and began his career with Ernst & Young. Gil replaces Raviv Adle, who is leaving the company for a new opportunity.  Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. CFO’s annual conference and events calendar tracker ensures finance executives know about the most essential in-person events. Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. Want to share a company announcement with your peers? 

                                
                                    Get started
                                
                                ➔

 CFO’s annual conference and events calendar tracker ensures finance executives know about the most essential in-person events. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines