Warrington are keen on landing a deal for the 25-year-old. The latest rugby league news and updates delivered to your inbox We have more newsletters The latest rugby league news and updates delivered to your inbox We have more newsletters Warrington Wolves are in talks to sign Salford Red Devils forward Oli Partington, Rugby League Live can reveal. The forward, one of Salford's standout players during the 2023 season, could become the latest star player to exit the AJ Bell Stadium amid the Reds' current financial issues. Talks between the two clubs are thought to be down the track and there's a possibility that an agreement could be reached which will see Warrington prop Joe Bullock head the other way. That part of the deal isn't thought to be a guarantee at this stage but Warrington are keen to do a deal for 25-year-old Partington one way or another. Partington made the move from Wigan to Salford 12 months ago and quickly became a top performer in Paul Rowley's side. However, the Salford board recently wrote to co-owners outlining financial issues that would result in a review of the playing budget. It now appears that Partington could be one of the causalities. He could yet be joined by Brodie Croft, who is thought to be locked in talks with Leeds Rhinos about a potential move to the club next year. Salford are understood to have agreed terms with Leeds regarding a sale but there isn't thought to be an agreement in place between the club and the player at this stage. It will be another blow to Rowley, who saw another of his prize assets, Tyler Dupree, sold to Wigan Warriors mid-season. The Salford boss made it clear he did not want the player to leave at the time. Dupree was replaced at the time by Brad Singleton, who had initially been signed for the 2024 season. If a deal for Bullock is done, it would add an additional prop to the squad, but this time at the expense of losing Partington. Sam Burgess is thought to be a big admirer of Partington and is keen to get a deal done. He has already made changes to his squad for next year, with the likes of Rodrick Tai and Zane Musgrove brought into the squad. Others, such as Lachlan Fitzgibbon and Brad Dwyer, will also be among the Wire's new additions next season. 