Developer Chip Bowlby, the man behind several "transformational" real estate projects in Reno, died early Wednesday.  Bowlby was 58 years old. His death was confirmed by his daughter, Tara Miles. “He was still doing business calls on Monday afternoon and then got sick on Tuesday afternoon,” Miles said.  “We didn’t think he would be gone (by Wednesday). It kind of came out of nowhere.” Bowlby made his name in Reno-Sparks as owner and managing partner of Reno Land Development Co.  Bowlby’s tenure at the company was marked by a string of high-profile construction and redevelopment projects in Reno within the last decade. Prior to his spree of local projects, Bowlby also had experience developing resorts in Nevada, California and Idaho. Reno Mayor Hillary Schieve credited Bowlby for helping the city evolve from its previous image of being solely a gaming destination. Schieve described the developer as part of “the new generation of Reno’s vision.” “It was a joy working with him, and his love for Reno will live on through the truly transformational projects he brought to our community,” Schieve said. “From all of us at the city of Reno, we send our love and prayers to the Bowlby family.” Bowlby was someone who was always open to new ideas, said Reno Councilmember Naomi Duerr. Duerr remembers Bowlby becoming a tree advocate after a conversation with the councilmember. “Chip was a visionary when it came to development and not afraid to tackle big, complicated projects,” Duerr said. “Chip had a great enthusiasm for life, a very kind heart, and ... will be deeply missed.” Bowlby especially excelled in working with different partners on his projects, several of which involved legacy properties with high name recognition in the area. Bowlby’s first major project in the Biggest Little City involved the redevelopment of late casino magnate Bill Harrah’s family estate. Bowlby’s company made an offer for the Rancharrah property in south Reno, which then-owner John Harrah accepted in 2014.  At the time, Bowlby was one of the few developers to go all-in on major development while others remained cautious after being burned by the real estate market crash during the Great Recession. Asked about his impeccable timing of the real estate market’s recovery, the self-effacing Bowlby joked that it was better to be lucky than good. “I can see the light at the end of the tunnel,” Bowlby told the Reno Gazette Journal in 2015.  “Now is it the light coming to us or is it the train? I have to say timing is everything.” The redevelopment of Rancharrah included the addition of several homes by Toll Brothers as well as the Village at Rancharrah boutique retail and office space by Tolles Development Co. Par Tolles, CEO of Tolles Development, praised Bowlby for his vision and willingness to take risks in order to help improve the Reno community. “I had the pleasure of watching a maverick change the landscape of Nevada in real time,” Tolles told the RGJ.  “Chip loved Reno and saw what many could not. I will miss seeing his creativity, but more than anything, I will miss my friend.” Bowlby would follow up Rancharrah with several other real estate deals, including another big project with the redevelopment of the former Park Lane Mall site on Plumb Lane and South Virginia Street. Bowlby would end up partnering with California-based real estate developer Lyon Living for the project. Prior to Bowlby’s involvement, the site had languished for years following Park Lane’s closure. The project has since been renamed the Reno Experience District, a mixed-use development with residential and retail offerings. The RED project has added several apartments as well as an Element Hotel as part of its ongoing development. Joel Grace, Bowlby’s partner at Reno Land Management, called him a kind man who was always willing to help with various causes. “He would give the shirt off of his back to anyone,” Grace said. “Reno lost a good one and he will be sorely missed.” Bowlby was also involved in several other residential projects. These include the Meridian 120 project in Verdi and the Summit Club apartments on Mount Rose Highway. Bowlby also acquired land from UNR Farms in 2020 for an industrial and retail project called The Park at McCarran. Bowlby’s projects were not without controversy. Critics slammed millions of dollars in waived sewer connection fees for the Park Lane project from the city of Reno. Residents also pushed back against the Meridian 120 project over concerns about water and local wells potentially running dry. Friends and supporters of Bowlby, however, noted how much the developer has done for the community. Bowlby, for example, continued to push for the construction of the Summit Club apartments, now known as Inova, even as some residents in the area expressed concern about the project’s low-income renters. Summit Club was the first 80/20 project of its kind in the state and featured 80% market rate units as well as 20% affordable housing units — a huge need in an area that was seeing skyrocketing home prices and rents. Bowlby was also the first person to donate to the WC-1 campaign effort to raise funding for school infrastructure, said Abbi Whitaker, owner and president of public relations firm the Abbi Agency. “I worked as his PR person for four years and during that time, he gave hundreds of thousands of dollars to almost every cause in town,” Whitaker said. “He almost never said no.” Miles described Bowlby as a great dad who always supported her.  Miles, who was Miss Reno Rodeo 2013 and Miss Rodeo Nevada 2013, called Bowlby her “pageant dad.” “His first job was picking tomatoes and cleaning horse stalls for 10 cents a stall back in Joplin, Missouri,” Miles said. “He used to joke with me that he’s been around horses forever.” Miles says she will especially miss having her dad around to spend time with her children. One of Bowlby’s favorite things to do was dropping by for his grandson’s swim classes, Miles said. “My 3-year-old calls him Papa Chip,” Miles said. “It’s hard to explain death to a 3-year-old but I know he’s really going to miss playing with his Papa Chip.” Bowlby is survived by his mother, sisters, two children and three grandchildren.