Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Join Legit.ng's Twitter Spaces to Embrace Equity in the Media Sector. Nigerian billionaire Abdul Samad Rabiu, founder of BUA Group, is rapidly closing in on South African billionaire Nicky Oppenheimer's status as the third-richest person in Africa.  With a net worth of $8.2 billion, Rabiu's fortune has skyrocketed by $2 billion(N966bn) in just one year, narrowing the gap between himself and Oppenheimer. Forbes' data reveals that Rabiu's net worth has surged from $6.1 billion in January 2022 to $8.2 billion as of Tuesday, March 28, 2023, making him the fourth-richest person in Africa and surpassing Egyptian billionaire Nassef Sawiris.  Read also Paystack founder, Shola Akinlade buys 55% stake in Danish football club, Aarhus Fremad Additionally, this rise in his net worth has closed the wealth gap between Rabiu and Oppenheimer to just $100 million. PAY ATTENTION: Join Legit.ng Telegram channel! Never miss important updates! Rabiu's remarkable increase in wealth is attributed to his manufacturing empire, BUA Group, and the soaring market value of his publicly traded companies, BUA Cement and BUA Foods. BUA Cement had a stellar financial year, generating historic profits of N101.01 billion ($219.4 million) in 2022, up 12.14% from N90.08 billion ($195.6 million) in 2021, according to its latest financial report.  BUA Cement's board of directors recommended a dividend payout of N2.8 ($0.00608) per share, up from N2.6 ($0.0056) the previous year, in recognition of the company's outstanding performance.  As the majority shareholder of BUA Cement, Rabiu is set to receive a whopping N91.3 billion ($198.27 million) in dividends, a substantial increase from the N86.5 billion ($187.8 million) he received last year. Read also ATM, PoS, and mobile channel fraud increase to N3.6 billion in 2022 Meanwhile, in another report, Shola Akinlade, the co-founder of Nigerian payment platform Paystack, has purchased a 55 percent stake in Danish football club Aarhus Fremad. Akinlade's acquisition is his second big sports investment, having also owned a football club in Lagos He is hoping that the two sports clubs based in Lagos and Denmark will work closely to produce talent Source: Legit.ng 

                Dave Ibemere                                    (Senior Business Editor)
                            
Dave Ibemere is a senior business editor at Legit.ng. He is a financial journalist with over a decade of experience in print and online media. He also holds a Master's degree from the University of Lagos. He is a member of the African Academy for Open-Source Investigation (AAOSI), the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations and other media think tank groups. He previously worked with The Guardian, BusinessDay, and headed the business desk at Ripples Nigeria. Email: dave.ibemere@corp.legit.ng.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you