A $300 million sale of oil and gas assets on the western edge of the Permian Basin closed last week as the shale region continues its rise in production. Callon Petroleum Company of Houstan said it closed on the acquisition of assets in the Delaware sub-basin from Percussion Petroleum Operation on July 5, a sale announced in May that say the company refocus its extraction efforts on the Permian. Callon also sold off about $655 million worth of assets in the Eagle Ford region of southern Texas to Ridgemar Energy Operating, as Callon sought to divest of other basins and shift to a “singular focus” on West Texas and southeast New Mexico. More: About half of New Mexico's budget is reliant on the oil and gas industry, report says The Eagle Ford assets were on about 52,000 acres, producing about 16,300 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boed), at 71 percent oil. The Permian Basin purchase increased Callon’s Permian footprint to about 145,000 acres, along with 1,500 drilling locations. That meant adding about 18,000 acres in Ward, Winkler and Loving counties in Texas, along its border with New Mexico, and 70 new well locations. More: Oil and gas industry opposes federal conservation proposal, New Mexico voices support The assets were estimated to produce about 14,100 boed, at about 70 percent oil. Callon Chief Executive Officer Joe Gatto said the move would improve shareholder returns as the company now operated exclusively in the Permian Basin. “Through these two transactions, we have created a singular focus on the Permian Basin, reduced our absolute debt position, and kicked off a shareholder return plan," Gatto said. "The bolt-on Percussion transaction improves our Delaware inventory depth and also lowers our cost structure.” More: $168 million deal sees Northern Oil and Gas increase Permian Basin footprint Gatto said that by exiting the Eagle Ford, Callon was able to fund its acquisitions in the Permian Basin, the busiest and fastest-growing oil and gas region in the U.S. “Our strategic Eagle Ford exit funds our Delaware expansion and focuses our people, capital and operations on our premium Permian position,” he said. “The combined transactions strengthen our capital structure, improve our margins, and lengthen our top-tier Permian inventory.” Some of the most productive operations in the Permian Basin were across the border in southeast New Mexico, as Eddy and Lea counties were recently found to produced almost a third of the region’s oil in the first quarter of 2023, according to a report from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). More: Dunes sagebrush lizard proposed as endangered species amid threats from oil and gas The two counties averaged about 1.7 million barrels per day (bpd) together during that same time period, about 29 percent of the output reported from all 66 counties in the region. Overall, the Permian was estimated at about 5.7 million bpd of oil as of March, the EIA reported, climbing from 5.3 million bpd in 2022 and 4.7 million bpd in 2021. In the first quarter of 2023, Eddy and Lea counties accounted for 28 percent of the Permian’s natural gas production. More: New Mexico fines Permian Basin oil driller Ameredev $42M for air pollution Natural gas production in the Permian also climbed to a new annual high of 21 billion cubic feet per day bcf/d, the EIA reported, mostly from gas brought up with oil. This “associated natural gas” almost doubled since 2021, read the report, increasing to 6.5 bcf/d in 2022 from about 3.7 bcf/d in 2021. Horizontal wells in Eddy and Lea counties accounted for 60 percent of total growth in the region in Q1 2023, up from 44 percent in Q1 2022. “In southeastern New Mexico, horizontal wells in Lea and Eddy counties drove much of the recent growth in Permian Basin crude oil output,” the report read. More production in oil and gas followed increased drilling rigs of both commodities in the Permian and in Texas and New Mexico. The two Permian Basin states had the first- and second-highest rig counts in the U.S., with Texas dropping four rigs in the last week for a total 337 rigs and New Mexico adding three rigs for its total of 111 rigs as of Friday, according to Baker Hughes. Adrian Hedden can be reached at 575-628-5516, achedden@currentargus.com or @AdrianHedden on Twitter. This article originally appeared on Carlsbad Current-Argus: $300M Permian Basin oil and gas sale closes, company exits Eagle Ford New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.