Son of a Peach. 
There was a bit of confusion last week, when it was announced that The Super Mario Bros. Movie would be released two days earlier than previously expected in the US and "60 other markets". At this point, it was unclear whether the UK fell into the "other markets" category.
 
Now, however, Universal has cleared that up, and stated The Super Mario Bros. Movie will be released on 5th April in the UK. This is the same as in the US.
 
If you've been struggling to keep track of when The Super Mario Bros. Movie is due to arrive, you are not alone. After all, Universal has shunted its release date around the calendar on numerous occasions.
 
The film was initially aiming for December 2022 before switching to an early March release across a large number of territories, including Australia, Europe, and the UK. However, with its cinematic debut now less than a month away, hopefully this will be the last time the release date changes.
 
In the meantime, Nintendo will be hosting a special Super Mario Bros. Movie focused Nintendo Direct later this week (9th March). Here, it'll be sharing one last trailer for the movie, so keep your eyes peeled for any more Easter eggs and the like. 
 
Personally, I would love to see more of the film's take on Rainbow Road - a casual banana skin deployment from Princess Peach before Donkey Kong releases a blue shell. Well, why not?
 It’s-a-go time. We’re one month away. #SuperMarioMovie is in cinemas April 5. pic.twitter.com/S4ogeaBWaF 
Super Mario Bros.
 
Nintendo GBA
 
        From Assassin's Creed to Zoo Tycoon, we welcome all gamers
       
        Eurogamer welcomes videogamers of all types, so sign in and join our community!
       

Supporters |


Five of the Best: Mounts                    
 

Long read |


The beauty and drama of video games and their clouds                    
 

Supporters |


Five of the Best: Subterranean worlds                    
 

Feature |


The best Super Mario games, ranked                    
 

Donkey Kong rap composer can't escape its brilliance, inclusion in Super Mario Bros. Movie revealed                    
 

Seth Rogen's Donkey Kong and Cat Mario spar in latest Super Mario Bros Movie clip                    
 

Theme park enthusiasts give their thoughts on Hollywood's new Super Nintendo World                    
 

New Super Mario Bros. movie casting "backwards", former Luigi actor says                    
 Bad puns and video games since 1999. Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.