---Advertisement--- New Delhi: Chennai Super Kings (CSK) captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni (MS Dhoni) has played multiple roles in his life as a cricketer, coach, then businessman and now a film producer. He is also serve in the Indian army as lieutenant colonel. Another hobby of Dhoni was farming. He became a full-time farmer in 2020 and currently in his hometown Ranch he cultivates 40 acres of land. But what made Dhoni suddenly become a farmer? In a rare video interview, he explained two reasons: his love for farming and his free time during the COVID-19 pandemic. Actually, Dhoni told that when the whole country was troubled by the Corona epidemic. At that time all the people were in the houses, could not get out. He had nothing to do then, so he cultivated 40 acres of land near his farmhouse. Farming is the one of his hobby that he fondly enjoy. “I come from a small town. We were already familiar with farming when we were kids. This was not a new concept. We had about 40 hectares of land, but only 4-5 hectares were farmed. “I felt that now was the perfect time to start farming full-time because of the pandemic and the extra time,” Dhoni said.  A post shared by MS Dhoni Fans Club ❤ (90K) (@msdhoni.zealot)  The video of Mahendra Singh Dhoni driving a tractor in the field became increasingly viral on social media. This style of Dhoni was also liked by the people and this video of him was shared fiercely. A long time ago, Dhoni shared a video of his strawberry harvest. Dhoni captioned the video as, “If we keep going to the farm, we’ll run out of strawberries to market.” MS Dhoni farming 💛#MSDhoni pic.twitter.com/J1ZhfVw0A7 — Dhoni Raina Team (@dhoniraina_team) February 8, 2023  While Sakshi look over other ventures, including a new venture, Dhoni Entertainmet, which recently produced his first film titled Let’s Get Married, Mahi spends more time in the fields and spends more time in luxury. He enjoys his vast collection of motorbikes and cars parked in a unique farmhouse. At Ranch, a town dear to the former Indian cricket team captain.  Written By News24 Desk Get Breaking News First and Latest Updates from India and around the world
                            on News24. Follow News24 on Facebook, Twitter. ---Advertisement---  BAG FILMS & MEDIA LTD
                  Film City, Sector 16A, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301
  Phone:  0120 - 4602424/6652424  Email: info@bagnetwork.in