Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article The World Health Organization reaffirmed its recommended intake of aspartame Thursday, but the agency's classification of the sweetener as a possible carcinogen could still scare away diet soda drinkers and lead to new beverage formulas. Soda consumption has fallen over the past two decades as consumers have switched to drinking more water or picking beverages with less sugar. However, diet sodas have been a bright spot for the category in recent years. Although full-calorie options still dominate the soda segment, diet sodas now represent more than a quarter of sales. Coca-Cola's and PepsiCo's bets on zero-sugar versions of their namesake sodas have been paying off for both companies. Diet Coke, Coke Zero, Pepsi Zero Sugar and Diet Mountain Dew all contain aspartame. On Thursday, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, a WHO agency, identified a possible link between aspartame and a type of liver cancer called hepatocellular carcinoma. WHO officials said more research on the potential connection is needed. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said in a statement that it disagrees with IARC's conclusion and its own scientists don't have safety concerns about aspartame. "FDA scientists reviewed the scientific information included in IARC's review in 2021 when it was first made available and identified significant shortcomings in the studies on which IARC relied," the agency said. A separate body linked to the WHO and the Union Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization, the Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives, said in its own report Thursday that the acceptable daily intake of the sweetener is under 40 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, reaffirming prior recommendations. For most adults, that means drinking less than nine to 14 cans of diet soda every day. While the findings on possible links to cancer may not deter consumers who drink smaller amounts of diet soda, the announcement could at least temporarily hurt sales. Diet sodas are at least 50% more popular with higher-income consumers than with lower-income people, according to TD Cowen data. Those consumers could be concerned by the WHO's report, TD Cowen analyst Vivien Azer wrote in a research note last week. The biggest risk for soda makers is how much attention the announcement garners. CFRA analyst Garrett Nelson wrote in a June 29 note that the news could hurt sales volumes of low-calorie sodas if enough consumers see the headlines. Likewise, Wedbush analyst Gerald Pascarelli told CNBC he thinks the report could hit sales in the category. But the dip might not last long. "These companies are quick to pivot and to do what's necessary to maintain momentum for their brands, and we suspect they'll do the same thing," he said. Dr. Francesco Branca, head of the WHO's nutrition and food safety division, said manufacturers who use aspartame in their food and drinks should consider making their products without the sweetener. But PepsiCo Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston told Reuters on Thursday that the company has no plans to change its use of aspartame. He added that the company doesn't include the sweetener in much of its portfolio. Aspartame was used in Diet Pepsi until 2015, when the company tweaked the formula. After backlash from customers, PepsiCo brought it back a year later. Pepsi Zero Sugar also contains aspartame. Coke faces more risk of losing out on sales over aspartame concerns, according to CFRA's Nelson. The beverage giant currently uses the sweetener in both its Diet Coke and Coke Zero, but could swap it out for another, such as stevia, in the future. Even so, Edward Jones analyst Brittany Quatrochi said she isn't expecting a big hit to diet soda sales. "Consumers may trade into a different sugar-free offering, but this isn't the first kind of food or beverage product to be labeled a carcinogen," she said. For example, the IARC classified red meat as a probable carcinogen in 2018. Makers of diet sodas aren't fretting over lost sales yet. The American Beverage Association, which lobbies on behalf of Coke, PepsiCo and Keurig Dr Pepper, took the WHO announcement as further confirmation of the sweetener's safety. "With more than 40 years of science and this definitive conclusion from the WHO, consumers can move forward with confidence that aspartame is a safe choice, especially for people looking to reduce sugar and calories in their diets," ABA interim CEO Kevin Keane said in a statement. Besides diet sodas, aspartame can also be found in a variety of foods, including breakfast cereals, chewing gum and ice cream. It's widely used as a sugar substitute because it is 200 times sweeter, meaning it can be used in much lower concentrations. Correction: Diet Pepsi's current formula includes aspartame. An earlier version misstated the status of its use. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by