
Published: Aug 19, 2024 02:28 am 
 Updated: August 19, 2024 Looked for new codes! Brawlhalla is one of my favorite free-to-play games, partially because it's so zany and customizable. Whether I'm playing as Hattori or queuing up for a match as Barraza, I always know I'm going to have a good time brawling with my friends or other online players. One thing that helps me enjoy the game even more is the Brawlhalla code system.  Brawlhalla codes give me access to fun bundles and cosmetics so I can always stand out on the battlefield. If I'm trying to look for new skins or want to customize one of the freshest characters on my roster, I can turn to codes to get some extra help.  Finding different codes for other fighting and competition games is easy with Pro Game Guides codes! Get codes for games similar to Brawlhalla, like Roblox A Hero’s Destiny Codes and Roblox Weapon Fighting Simulator Codes. Also, consider checking out guides like Best Brawlhalla Mods and How to Add Friends in Brawlhalla?.  Here's a look at all of the currently working Brawlhalla codes.  These codes for Brawlhalla no longer work.  Here's everything you need to know about redeeming codes in Brawlhalla.  To redeem Brawlhalla codes, first go to the Main Menu. After that, head to Store at the very bottom of the list. If you can't find it, look where it says Play at the top, then look all the way down until you find Store at the end. When on the Store menu, look at the bottom left-hand corner where there are three purple buttons. Click on the bottom one titled Redeem Code. Once that has been clicked, a new window will appear. Type the code or copy and paste it into the text field. After that, hit Enter to submit your code. If the code works, it will tell you by giving you a pop-up that describes the reward you just redeemed. If the code has not worked, an error message will appear that informs you the code could not be submitted.  Sometimes, Brawlhalla gives away codes on their Twitch streams. This doesn't happen all the time, but they do release them on occasion. Usually, they wait until the very end of the stream to give out codes. Check the Brawlhalla Facebook page to see if they plan on releasing codes in the upcoming Twitch stream.  If your code was not accepted, there are two probable reasons for this. The first reason a code will be rejected is that it has expired and is no longer active. The second reason a code might not be working is that the code has been entered incorrectly. To fix this, be extra careful when entering your code to make sure the spelling and format are correct.  Brawlhalla is a free-to-play fighting game that spans multiple platforms and has a play style reminiscent of games like Super Smash Bros. Fighters congregate on a platform of multiple players, all competing to push each other off of the ring. To win, you need to try and be the last brawler standing.  Looking for more great content about Brawlhalla? If so, consider checking out How to Add Friends in Brawlhalla? or Are Brawlhalla Servers Down? Here’s how to check server status on Pro Game Guides.  Comments are on moderation and will be approved in a timely manner. Please read the following rules before commenting: Comment Nickname*  Email*   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.