Gamescom 2024 Watch IGN's live shows and check out VG247's Gamescom coverage. Get free Gems and Summon new Units! Anime Defenders is a Roblox tower defense game where you recruit characters inspired by some of the most iconic animes of all time to defend your base from waves of enemies. There's a variety of worlds you'll do battle on, and a neon-lit hub city to explore where you'll Summon units based on shows like One Piece, Dragon Ball Z and Bleach. To Summon new heroes, you'll need Gems and that's where Anime Defenders codes can help. These codes, which are shared by the game's developer on official socials, offer plenty of free Gems. To help you save time, we've rounded-up all the latest codes below, so you can get back to summoning and battling in Anime Defenders. Not sure how to redeem codes in Anime Defenders? Here's what you need to do: That's it for our guide to Anime Defenders codes. If you need help with other anime-inspired experiences in Roblox, then head to our pages on Blox Fruits codes, Attack on Titan Revolution codes and Type Soul codes. Or, if you want to try something completely different, visit our lists of Untitled Boxing Game codes and Untitled Gym Game codes. 
Roblox
 
          Video Game
       
        Sign in and unlock a world of features
       
        Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!
       

Type Soul codes                    
 

Anime Crossover Defense codes                    
 

Project Baki 3 codes                    
 

Untitled Boxing Game codes                    
 

Jujutsu Chronicles codes                    
 

Bad Business codes                    
 

Arm Wrestle Simulator codes                    
 

Meme Sea codes                    
 VG247 is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.