The council says more must be done to tackle increasing food poverty in the area Sign up to the Grimsby Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Sign up to the Grimsby Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Councillors deeply concerned about residents struggling to afford basic meals were shocked to discover they already have a North East Lincolnshire Council food poverty champion during a debate about creating one. In the full council meeting, a Liberal Democrat motion called for a cabinet member to be appointed food poverty champion with the role of reducing surplus food waste and creating an action plan to help those in need. But it turned out Cllr Ron Shepherd, a Conservative and portfolio holder for safer and stronger communites, already held such a role and was keen to highlight the council's efforts on food poverty and waste.  Read more: First look at modern youth centre with woodworking and DJ studio planned for Grimsby  In North East Lincolnshire, almost 30 per cent of pupils are eligible for free school meals, said Cllr Nicola Aisthorpe, whose motion called for a food poverty champion. In January 2022, there were 7,175 pupils eligible, up 84 per cent compared to just 2016. The motion also noted the widely reported figure of 9.5m tonnes of food waste produced by the UK annually." It is completely unacceptable that, in this day and age, anyone uses a food bank," said Liberal Democrat Cllr Aisthorpe, who put forward the motion. She also highlighted a recent Grimsby Live report on the Rock Foundation almost running out of supplies for its food bank in Garibaldi Street. "A few years ago, we called ourselves Europe's food town. Whether this is now appropriate is clearly a question." Cllr Aisthorpe acknowledged existing efforts by charities and the council but called for more to be done by the local authority. "I know what it is like to live in a house with no food," independent Cllr Steve Holland said, sharing difficult experiences as a child. But food poverty was not the only problem. North East Lincolnshire had the fourth highest level of obesity. "The food industry has become adept at giving us delicious, addictive, unhealthy food." Conservative council leader Cllr Philip Jackson said the issue of food poverty was something he already took an interest in, particularly from when the council assisted people during the pandemic. "We do already have a cabinet member responsible for the reduction in food poverty," he said, naming Cllr Shepherd. Labour group leader Cllr Matthew Patrick cautiously supported the motion. Describing any Lib Dem motion as a "rare and fragile thing", he felt it failed to go far enough in identifying the root causes behind the increased use of food banks. Labour and Co-op Cllr Karl Wilson asked who apart from the council leader knew of Cllr Shepherd's food poverty reduction role. He was met with a fair number of blank faces, with certainly no opposition councillor aware of it. Cllr Shepherd proposed an amendment and defended his and the council's work on the issue. He said it already had a dedicated food coordinator and held meetings at least every two months with an array of food providers to secure food supplies. Over £500,000 had been given by the council through the Household Support Fund to food providers in the past two years. "Food is just one aspect of economic hardship," he said, before adding the issue was not new but worsened by the cost of living crisis. He also expressed frustration that ward councillors had not raised the issue earlier during the council's budget debates. Eventually, the rehashed motion was passed unanimously, containing none of the Lib Dem councillors' original wording. It largely praised existing council efforts and committed to continuing this. A late amendment by Labour and Co-op Cllr Karl Wilson to require a report to full council every six months from Cllr Shepherd about the council's actions in this area was accepted. Food poverty was not the only topic discussed in a motion debate at full council. Labour Cllr Kevin Shutt also put forward a motion criticising reduced government funding to councils over the last decade, supported by his party's group leader Cllr Patrick. This also censured the Conservative run-council for not doing enough to secure cash for North East Lincolnshire. Cllr Shutt said the council's recent budget process had helped him "realise that officers at all levels have and are still suffering from this unfair funding system". He wanted more openness and transparency at the council that current funding does not work. Unsurprisingly, Conservative councillors did not support and it failed by 27 votes to 10, with Cllr Holland abstaining. But Cllr Shutt took satisfaction from acknowledgement by leading Conservative councillors that the current funding model had its drawbacks. Cllr Jackson said it "might not be ideal" and mentioned adult social funding as an example of where things could be better. But he warned councillors to "be careful of what you wish for", with other possible funding models not necessarily to North East Lincolnshire's benefit. Want to sign up to the Grimsby newsletter, but can't access the link below? Click here.  Separately, Cllr Shepherd also confirmed at full council the council's intention to host annually a conference on tackling anti-social behaviour. It held an all-day conference at Grimsby Town Hall on Monday, March 6. All ward councillors were invited, but not all came and felt it was a "missed opportunity" that some had not attended. "Where wards had representation they found the breakout sessions invaluable with significant involvement in highlighting proposals to address anti-social behaviour." Is the Government doing enough to help with the cost of living? Take our poll and have your say.  Read next:  Lights, camera, action on Grimsby cinema plan as lease is signed and work due to start   Huge onshore wind turbines taller than Dock Tower planned   North East Lincs children's services inconsistent quality of supervision and management, Ofsted latest visit finds   The Mariners have put Grimsby on the map - and there's much more to come   Grimsby man says 'mucky' Town Hall is so dilapidated he shouldn't have to pay Council Tax  