From portable handhelds to powerhouse options.  Gear-obsessed editors choose every product we review. We may earn commission if you buy from a link. Why Trust Us? Shipping label printers are handy devices for small business owners or anyone who sends a lot of packages. They streamline the entire printing and shipping process and conveniently work with a broad range of distribution services and platforms to make the task even easier. Yet despite their modest sizes, these dynamos—some capable of turning out nearly 100 labels per minute—are far more sophisticated than you might think and have much more in common with small printers than label makers. As such, there’s a lot to know about device and shipping compatibility before you decide which model would work best with your needs and budget. To help in your search for the best shipping label printer, we’ve put together our research-backed recommendations, along with expert shopping advice to consider before you buy.  While a seemingly simple office machine, a shipping label printer has several variables to take into consideration before you decide which one to purchase. Here’s what you should know. There are two types of compatibility to be aware of: device compatibility and shipping compatibility. If your whole small business setup works with Apple devices, you’ll need to purchase a printer that easily connects to all things Apple. Each shipping label printer works with different distribution services and platforms, i.e. USPS, UPS, Amazon, Shopify, Etsy, etc. It’s important to know what shipping service and platforms you plan to use and choose a compatible printer. We noted which shipping companies each printer works with in the reviews below, and they’re often clearly listed in the details on the retailer pages. You’ll want to take note of the printer’s speed and output, especially if you own a small business. Certain models can produce up to 93 labels per minute, which you might need if you print hundreds at a time. Say you print labels while walking around a warehouse through aisles of stock (or your basement, for that matter). You’ll likely want to choose a Wi-Fi or Bluetooth printer. If your shipments are infrequent, a less convenient USB connection should suffice—and cost you less. Most shipping labels are printed in black and white. But if you want to use the printer to create other items like custom tags, logo stickers, or banners, a color-label printer can eliminate the need to purchase a completely separate device. Again, if you’re only printing shipping labels, a one-size printer will do just fine. But if you need some variety, maybe to print barcode labels for your Amazon business or file folder labels, look for a machine that can print multiple templates and sizes. During our research for the best label printers, we drew from our experience covering other types of printers to help inform our selections. Shipping label printers have many of the same features and specs as their larger counterparts, and we considered those that were applicable, including print speed, print quality, pre-loaded software, and device compatibility. It was also important to consider each printer’s compatibility with shipping services and ability to print different label sizes. We used these metrics to compare models in our selection and weighed collective attributes against the price. Our final list represents the best in each category. The selling point of this Rollo is its intelligent label detection, which makes the monochrome shipping label printer compatible with any thermal direct label. However, it works best on 4 x 6-inch labels, as well as with warehouse, barcode, and bulk mailing labels, which is appropriate given that it’s geared toward online sellers. It is compatible with all major shipping platforms, including Amazon, Etsy, eBay, and Shopify, and prints at the quality required for major courier companies, including USPS and FedEx. Another plus: The shipping label printer is equipped with AirPrint so you can effortlessly send it files to churn out via Wi-Fi from your PC, Mac, tablet, or smartphone. The Nelko PL70e is an inexpensive model that’s a simple solution to shipping needs. It utilizes thermal print technology to produce up to 72 4 x 6-inch labels per minute. And with thermal labels, there’s no need to worry about ink or toner running out.  You can print using your mobile device or a Windows PC using Bluetooth and its Shipping Printer Pro app, which, coupled with its small size, makes it a very portable option. (You need to connect via USB if you’re using a Mac, however.) It’s compatible with most shipping platforms (USPS, UPS, Amazon, eBay, etc.). And if that isn’t enough, it comes in a range of colors to suit your taste. The Dymo LabelWriter 450 Label Printer creates black and grey labels that are up to 4 inches wide, is highly customizable with more than 60 different templates, and gives you the ability to import text and graphics. It’s also considerably speedy, with the ability to print up to 90 standard four-line address labels per minute. Plus, it’s compatible with popular online selling platforms and shipping carriers and is ideal for large shipping and warehouse labels. But it also works for file folders, name badges, and standard shipping and mailing needs. The printer connects directly to your PC or laptop via USB, or you can connect it via Ethernet to your network so more than one other machine can access it. The Dymo 450 Twin Turbo is a highly efficient shipping label printer, featuring two label rolls of different sizes so you can print multiple address labels, barcodes, file folder labels, name tags, or postage without switching. This powerhouse is capable of printing 71 four-line addresses a minute. It’s compatible with both Macs and PCs, though it only connects via USB. The flagship model in Brother’s QL shipping label printer line, the QL-820NWB offers a great combination of value and versatility. It’s able to print labels up to 2.4 inches wide and up to 3 feet long in combinations of black and red. (Brother sells a number of sizes of both die-cut and continuous compatible label formats.) You can connect your laptop or PC via USB, Ethernet, or wirelessly via Wi-Fi. And the printer is also equipped with Bluetooth and Wi-Fi Direct for connecting to mobile devices. The QL-820NWB comes with Brother’s P-Touch Editor software in both Mac and PC versions for designing labels. There’s a built-in address book, plus more helpful features you can access through the app. You can also use this printer on its own by downloading templates from your computer or mobile device and storing them in the printer’s memory to edit as needed and print. With the ability to print at resolutions ranging from 100 to 600 dpi and up to 110 labels per minute, this well-priced printer should meet most people’s needs. The monochrome Arkscan 2054A Ethernet Shipping Label Printer features a large selection of label designs from which to choose, and it works with multiple shipping software programs and platforms. It can connect directly to your PC or laptop via USB, or to your network via Ethernet, which means it’s also able to print from smartphones and tablets. The printer is ideal for shipping but also creates labels for other uses, like file folders, signs, and content tags. One of its greatest selling points is that it’s compatible with third-party labels, which helps keep running costs low. The 7 Best Smart TVs for Upgrading Movie Night Amazon Just Put Every Single AirPods Model on Sale Our Favorite Samsung TV Is $800+ off at Walmart The Best Gaming Desktops to Level Up Your Play The Best Smart Glasses We Tested Amazon Warehouse Has Up to 53% Off DeWalt Tools The 7 Best Document Scanners  AirPods Are Nearly 50% Off on Amazon Right Now This MacBook Pro Is at Its Lowest Price Ever The Best RFID Wallets We Tested and Recommend The Best Power Strips and Surge Protectors Our Favorite Portable Power Station Is $1,400 Off A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.