Two years after being a contributor on a Super Bowl-winning team, fourth-year receiver Van Jefferson was traded from the Los Angeles Rams, the franchise that drafted him out of Florida in 2020, to the Atlanta Falcons.  But why, after all, Jefferson looked like a name on the rise following the 2021 season when he finished second on the team in receiving with 50 receptions for 809 yards and six touchdowns? "You've had some other guys that have done a really good job," Rams coach Sean McVay said on Wednesday about the decision to trade Jefferson. "You get Cooper [Kupp] back in the mix, and he's a really capable player, even when I said to you guys the other day. I didn't anticipate him playing two snaps, but I think he felt like those opportunities would be better for him. He's in the last year of his contract, and that felt like something we were kind of able to accommodate both sides." Los Angeles Rams wide receiver Van Jefferson (12) stretches for a deep pass as Cincinnati Bengals cornerback Eli Apple (20) defends in the fourth quarter during Super Bowl 56, Sunday, Feb. 13, 2022, at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif. Kareem Elgazzar - USA TODAY NETWORK Following his breakout season, Jefferson could never refind the form that made him a top contributor on the Rams' Super Bowl team. The former Gator missed the first six games of last season, and while he did show flashes of his former self, he could never put it all together, as he finished with 24 receptions for 369 yards and three touchdowns. Then, with the Rams looking to their young receiving core to help fill the void of an injured Cooper Kupp for the first four games of the season, Jefferson was seemingly overtaken by standout rookie Puka Nacua and TuTu Atwell.   The emergence of the Rams' younger receivers, combined with the return of Kupp from injury, essentially led to Jefferson's trade to the Falcons, where, upon arrival, he'll have a chance to establish himself in an offense that has struggled for consistency in the passing game.  Jefferson's first opportunity to make his Falcons debut will come on Sunday when the team hosts the Washington Commanders. Kickoff is scheduled for 1 p.m.