Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Furry friends of all kinds have the chance to end up on a wine-bottle label, thanks to an annual contest from Pet Alliance of Greater Orlando.The “My Best Friend Wine Label Contest” returns for its 10th year, giving pet parents the opportunity to have their cat or dog appear on a bottle of wine. Entries are accepted through July 31, then voting is open Aug. 1-19. The contest raises funds for PAGO as each vote is cast with a $1 donation.“We are thrilled to kick off our popular pet photo contest for the 10th-anniversary year,” said Cathy Rodgers, PAGO’s director of philanthropy and marketing, in a news release. “We are very grateful for the support our organization receives through the contest, and we cannot wait to see all of the adorable animals entered this year.”The dog and cat with the most votes will be featured with a photo, name and short story on the wine label for the 2023 “My Best Friend Rescue Red Wine” from Quantum Leap Winery, located in the Mills-50 District of Orlando. Grand-prize winners also will receive a case (12 bottles) of wine and an art print of the label.The top 10 pets in each category will be awarded prizes as well.Winners can celebrate and receive their wine during an event on Oct. 5 at Quantum Leap Winery.Pet Alliance of Greater Orlando has raised a total of $325,000 from the contest. The organization offers shelter, veterinary care, a pet-food pantry, adoptions and education on animal welfare among its many services.To enter the contest, go to gogophotocontest.com/mybestfriend or petallianceorlando.org.

Find me @PConnPie on Instagram or send me an email: pconnolly@orlandosentinel.com. The “My Best Friend Wine Label Contest” returns for its 10th year, giving pet parents the opportunity to have their cat or dog appear on a bottle of wine. Entries are accepted through July 31, then voting is open Aug. 1-19. The contest raises funds for PAGO as each vote is cast with a $1 donation. “We are thrilled to kick off our popular pet photo contest for the 10th-anniversary year,” said Cathy Rodgers, PAGO’s director of philanthropy and marketing, in a news release. “We are very grateful for the support our organization receives through the contest, and we cannot wait to see all of the adorable animals entered this year.” The dog and cat with the most votes will be featured with a photo, name and short story on the wine label for the 2023 “My Best Friend Rescue Red Wine” from Quantum Leap Winery, located in the Mills-50 District of Orlando. Grand-prize winners also will receive a case (12 bottles) of wine and an art print of the label. The top 10 pets in each category will be awarded prizes as well. Winners can celebrate and receive their wine during an event on Oct. 5 at Quantum Leap Winery. Pet Alliance of Greater Orlando has raised a total of $325,000 from the contest. The organization offers shelter, veterinary care, a pet-food pantry, adoptions and education on animal welfare among its many services. To enter the contest, go to gogophotocontest.com/mybestfriend or petallianceorlando.org. Find me @PConnPie on Instagram or send me an email: pconnolly@orlandosentinel.com. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel