Feb. 16—PLATTSBURGH — After going three years without one, the City of Plattsburgh has once again hired a dog and nuisance animal control officer. The contract agreement resolution was passed at the last Common Council meeting. "In accordance with the request therefore the Common Council approves the Mayor to sign a contract with Charles Grimshaw for nuisance animal and dog control for a lump sum price of $15,000," the resolution reads. "Mr. Grimshaw meets all of the criteria set forth by the council, and has produced all the documentation required for insurance coverage per the contract." Additionally, according to the contract, the definition of "nuisance animals" will exclude cats. During the last Common Council meeting though, Councilor Caitlin Bopp (D-Ward 5) wanted to make sure that was explicitly stated in the agreement they were voting on. "I know we said that nuisance animals did not apply to cats," she said. "I thought that language was in the contract, but it's not." Bopp then made a motion to amend the contract and clarify the language. At the last public safety committee meeting in January, City Mayor Chris Rosenquest had said the hire was necessary because of the volume of animal complaints that are received in the city. "This is something that my office fields a lot of complaints on," he said. "We hear a lot of this on our social channels and through our email. A lot of calls come down to the PD (City Police Department) to respond to dog calls. So this is really to correct some of the concerns that we have seen." Rosenquest added that hiring someone who can respond to both dog and nuisance animal complaints was also an important requirement. "This is both a dog and animal control officer in the City of Plattsburgh. Most that we've been able to find are animal control, because they do need that level of service in the city," he said. "We are not a rural community. Most of the time we cannot take care of these things ourselves so it is critical for us to have this expert capture these nuisance animals and then relocate them as well as track down any loose dogs that are running around." Councilor Julie Baughn (D-Ward 1) then raised concerns over some language of the contract about the possible methods used for capturing any animals. "The city will have no control or supervision over the means or methods the contractor uses to perform the work and such to ensure the contractors are in compliance of the law," Baughn read aloud. "That sounds disturbing." The mayor reassured her that that doesn't mean animals will be harmed in the process and the officer will have to follow Department of Environmental Conservation rules for capturing and relocating animals. "If your concern is we're trapping them and taking them out, that's not the case at all," Rosenquest said. "It's vague in here, but it's based on already the same regulations ... which the person is required to be licensed per those regulations." In the event Grimshaw is not available to attend to a complaint, the City Police Department will take care of it, Provisional Chief Bud York added. "So we're pretty well covered there," he said. York continued by saying the majority of calls received from residents the last couple of years have been dog complaints. "You get well over 200 to 220 dog calls a year. For the last couple of years, there's maybe 30-45 wild animals calls," he said. "So I think this is a good contract with this guy ... hopefully he will stay awhile." The contract with Grimshaw now runs until the end of 2023. Email: cnewton@pressrepublican.com Twitter: CarlySNewton New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.