By Marta Jary For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:43 EDT, 20 August 2023   |  Updated:  10:53 EDT, 20 August 2023      View  comments  Sylvia Jeffreys has revealed that despite her flourishing career, family is her number one priority.  The Today show star told The Daily Telegraph this weekend that she always makes time for the two toddler sons she shares with husband Peter Stefanovic.  'I don't take for granted the fact that I do manage to get quite a bit of balance in that respect in my life,' the 37-year-old said. 'Because more than anything, I just want to be with my kids, especially while they're this age,' she went on.  'I know that's the most important thing in life, so I try to make sure I squeeze as much out of those hours in the day as I can, every day.' Sylvia Jeffreys has revealed that despite her flourishing career, family is her number one priority. Pictured with husband Peter Stefanovic and their sons The media power couple recently placed their Double Bay terrace on the market for $4.5million.  It is understood the journalists want a bigger home with room for their family, including their two young sons.  The luxury two-story abode within the cosmopolitan eastern suburbs cost the couple $2.7 million back in 2016.    They have since added some renovations including a parking area for two cars and outdoor entertainment space in the rear courtyard.  The media power couple recently placed their Double Bay terrace on the market for $4.5million  It is understood the journalists want a bigger home with room for their family, including their two young sons 'We're not sure what the next step is yet. We're on the hunt, so we'll see what comes next,' Sylvia said.  The couple tied the knot at the Ooralba Estate in Kangaroo Valley on April 1, 2017.  In 2020, Sylvia and Peter, 42, welcomed their first son, Oscar, now three years old, in February. Just eight months later, the TV presenter revealed that she was pregnant with her second child, a son, Henry, now two.  'I don't take for granted the fact that I do manage to get quite a bit of balance in that respect in my life,' the 37-year-old said. 'Because more than anything, I just want to be with my kids' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group