By Geraint Llewellyn For Mailonline   Published:  13:39 EDT, 23 April 2023   |  Updated:  14:09 EDT, 23 April 2023      214 View  comments  Katie Price gushed with pride as she watched her son Junior Andre, 17, perform on stage at O2 Shepherd's Bush Empire in London on Saturday.  The former glamour model, 44, filmed his set from the audience as her talented lad supported headliner HRVY. Taking to her Instagram Stories Katie, who shares her with ex-husband Peter Andre, 50, wrote: 'So proud of @officaljunior_andre supporting @Hrvy @02sbe tonight'. The reality star also shares daughter Princess, 15, with the Mysterious Girl singer as well as Jett, eight, and Bunny, seven, with ex-husband Kieran Hayler and Harvey, 18, with Dwight Yorke. Junior took to the stage to sing to the full crowd in a stylish patterned bomber jacket and matching trousers. Proud mama: Katie Price, 44, gushed with pride as she watched her son Junior Andre, 17, perform on stage at O2 Shepherd's Bush Empire in London on Saturday (pictured together in January) Loving it: The former glamour model filmed his set from the audience as her talented lad supported headliner HRVY  He teamed the look with a plain white T-shirt and accessorised with an eye catching chunky gold chain necklace.  The aspiring star completed his ensemble with a pair of Nike trainers as he danced around the stage.  Junior seemed in high spirits as he gave out some lucky fans in the audience roses while he sang.  It comes after the teenager signed a deal with Harry Styles' label Columbia Records in 2021.  Earlier this month, Junior's dad Peter hit back at accusations calling his son Junior a 'nepo baby' over his music career.  He was speaking on Loose Women with Charlene White, Denise Welch, Nadia Sawalha and Jane Moore.  Despite Peter managing his son and introducing him to the team at the record label, he has argued his success is the result of his hard work.  Peter said: 'What I've tried to do with Junior and all the kids is in still that you may be given an opportunity but you have to work damn hard for it and he does. Pride: Taking to her Instagram Stories Katie, who shares her with ex-husband Peter Andre, 50, wrote: 'So proud of @officaljunior_andre supporting @Hrvy @02sbe tonight' Ex: Katie shares Junior and daughter Princess, 15, with the Mysterious Girl singer (pictured together in 2022)  'He's in the studio and he's constantly songwriting. I told him "don't just expect songs to come to you. Write them, be a writer because then you'll never go hungry."' 'He's a great kid. He's really doing well. He's getting gigs after gigs.' Nepotism babies - or 'nepo babies' as they are often called - have taken 2023 by storm, referring to celebrity offspring who land easily in the world of showbiz, such as Brooklyn Beckham. In 2021 Junior signed a huge record deal with Harry Styles' label Columbia Records when he was just 16.  Showtime: Junior took to the stage to sing to the full crowd in a stylish patterned bomber jacket and matching trousers Cool: He teamed the look with a plain white T-shirt and accessorised with an eye catching chunky gold chain necklace Amazing: Junior seemed in high spirits as he gave out some lucky fans in the audience roses while he sang At the time he said: 'Wow.. where do I start. These past 6 months have been hectic. But I’ve loved every single second of it.  'My dad took me to the studio 6 months ago and got me in the booth at @rebelrecs Since then I have secretly been working on a MASSIVE project, and not long ago got a call saying saying @columbiauk want to sign me!' He continued: I would just like to say thank you to the team @rebelress alongside my dad who have helped develop me into an artist. 'And of course a big shoutout to @sktartist and @marcellonoego Who are very talented and have been working with me on this project since the start.'  He ended his message as he wrote: 'And of course my family and friends. I love everyone who supports me and I am very excited to go on this journey with you all.' Junior excitedly announced: 'NEW MUSIC COMING SOON!!' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group