Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     CHEVERLY, Md. — A driver and passenger are dead after a two-vehicle collision in Prince George's County early Wednesday morning. Prince George's County Police say the driver of the other car involved left the scene of the crash and has not been found. Officers first responded to the scene for a report of a crash involving two vehicles around 2:30 a.m.  When officers got to the scene in the 6300 block of Landover Road, a preliminary investigation revealed an unidentified driver in a Kia was heading northbound on Landover Road when the Kia collided with a second vehicle that was trying to turn left onto southbound Landover Road.  The Kia and the second vehicle, a Toyota Camry, caught on fire. The driver and the passenger in the Camry, only identified as a man and a woman, died at the scene. The driver of the Kia left the scene on foot.  "Shock and numbness that comes with seeing that kind of thing," said Sarah Brown. The crash happened just outside her home. "And and then also just the overwhelming grief for the families," she said. Investigators later determined the Kia had been stolen from a home in Upper Marlboro. Police say so far in 2023, there have been 827 Kias reported stolen in the county. Police in Prince George's County have arrested 176 people in connection with the theft of Kias and Hyundais so far this year. Of those, 51 are adults and 125 are juveniles, police said.  Investigators continue to search for the driver of the second vehicle involved in the crash, even going door-to-door on Wednesday looking for doorbell video and any other witnesses. "I'd like to think these people can't hide for forever," said Brown. "I think there's evidence out there to be shared and hopefully the community will come together and cooperate." The investigation is active and ongoing. Anyone who may have information about this crash is urged to call Prince George's County Crime Solvers at 1-866-411-TIPS.  Eastbound lanes of Landover Road were closed at 62nd Place for several hours during the investigation. RELATED: Bus driver shortage leads to delays in Fairfax County RELATED: Alexandria starts new school year with speed camera warnings RELATED: Driver leaves scene of deadly pedestrian crash on Crain Highway WUSA9 is now on Roku and Amazon Fire TVs. Download the apps today for live newscasts and video on demand. Download the WUSA9 app to get breaking news, weather and important stories at your fingertips.  Sign up for the Get Up DC newsletter: Your forecast. Your commute. Your news. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.