Outlook Spotlight 
              These are the cryptocurrency exchanges in high demand for cryptocurrency futures trading, identified through comprehensive research and analysis.
             The fact that you are here tells me that you know the crypto futures market offers huge profits if done right. Crypto futures exchanges offer you huge leverage, lucrative trading fees, and deep liquidity. As a result, it is possible to day trade crypto and make regular profits. But this wouldn’t be possible without using a good crypto exchange. So the question is, what are some of the best crypto futures trading platforms out there? Well, here are a few suggestions to consider: These are the cryptocurrency exchanges in high demand for cryptocurrency futures trading, identified through comprehensive research and analysis. BingX is the best cryptocurrency futures trading exchange in the crypto space, offering a deposit bonus of up to 5000 USDT to its users.  BingX offers you up to 150x leverage, which is one of the highest in the industry. Along with that, you will get access to 550+ crypto trading pairs, which will allow you to diversify your trading portfolio. The exchange is also an ideal choice for anyone who is looking for a no-KYC exchange. If we talk about the product offerings, apart from the usual spot trading, it allows you to trade in the derivatives markets such as perpetual futures and standard futures. Regarding the trading fees, the exchange charges you two different rates for both perpetual futures and standard futures. For perpetual swaps, the maker and taker fee is 0.0200% and 0.0500%, respectively. Whereas for standard futures, it charges you a flat trading fee of 0.0450%. However, the exchange offers no additional discounts on your trading fees. This Singapore-based exchange was established back in 2018 and now gathers a huge daily trading volume of more than $208 million as per CoinMarketCap and offers you various trading services. You can trade on the platform without identity verification and enjoy a maximum withdrawal limit of 50,000 USD daily. Overall, the exchange is rich in features and offers you trading options like grid trading, copy trading, and P2P trading. Plus, it is widely trusted, holds several licenses from many regions, and has its head offices in countries like Canada, North America, Taiwan, etc. BingX Fees Pros Cons ✅Join BingX Now Another leading crypto exchange for futures trading is Bybit, which offers leverage up to 100x and a deposit bonus of up to $30,000.  Bybit is the best crypto exchange that is known for derivatives trading or, you can say, futures trading.  Apart from futures trading, the platform supports trading in spot, margin, and crypto options. But if we talk about futures trading specifically, compared to other exchanges, it offers you a maximum leverage of 100x, which should be good enough for you. Apart from the leverage, it also has a huge list of supported crypto tokens. It supports a maximum number of crypto tokens of more than 450+. Some of these crypto trading pairs include BTC, XRP, ETH, DOT, and many more. Now, coming to the trading fees, Bybit follows a tiered fee structure. This means your trading fee depends on your 30-day trading volume. However, as a base-level user, you will get charged a taker and maker fee rate of 0.0550% and 0.0200%, respectively. Additionally, you can always lower your trading fee by increasing your trading volume. Furthermore, Bybit does require you to complete your KYC. Earlier, the exchange used to provide a non-KYC account with some limitations. But to improve their exchange security, KYC is now made mandatory. Fortunately, completing your KYC verification is pretty straightforward. Also, Bybit doesn’t take much time to complete your KYC verification application. It is one of the top 10 crypto exchanges worldwide, as per CoinMarketCap, clocking a daily trading volume of more than $750 million.  Bybit platform is also known for offering some of the unique features.  For instance, it has recently introduced TradeGPT, which allows you to harness the power of AI to build trading strategies or optimize your trading activities. You also get the usual copy trading, trading bots, loans, and other crypto-related features. The exchange was also founded in 2018, and as of today, it is headquartered in Dubai. Bybit Fees Pros Cons ✅Join Bybit Now StormGain is one of the top crypto derivatives exchanges that offers the highest leverage of 500x on crypto futures trading like no other exchange, with a deposit bonus of $100 for its users. By nature, this futures platform is pretty unique. Most other global crypto platforms are CEX or centralized exchanges. StormGain makes itself separated from the crowd by being a combination of CEX and DEX or decentralized exchange. So, depending on what sort of exchange you wish to use, StormGain can be a great choice. Talking about StormGain’s history, the exchange was also established in 2018, and it is based out of London, England. The exchange started out as an exchange for high-leverage trading for a nominal fee. But in today’s time, it has turned itself into an all-in-one crypto platform for both investing and trading. Plus, the exchange is backed by 18 different crypto assets, such as BCHBTC, BTCUSDT, ETHBTC, and more. The exchange is also pretty unique in terms of its product offerings. You can trade in markets like Cryptocurrency options, tokenized assets, indices, commodities, and, of course, the futures trading market. Most other exchanges do not allow you to trade in markets like commodities or indices. Another thing that separates StormGain from others is its trading fees. The exchange charges you no trading fees on each buy/sell order. Instead, StormGain will take a profit share of 10% from your profitable trades. But I won’t charge you anything if you make any losses. And it can be hugely beneficial if you are a newbie trader, as your win rate would be pretty low. As far as the KYC policies are concerned, with StormGain, it is mandatory to verify your user account. This will help the exchange to enhance its security. But the KYC process is swift, and it won’t take much time to verify your account. Overall, the exchange is filled with unique features. For instance, you can use its trading signal feature to get free trading signals to make profits. Or earn money through Bitcoin cloud mining or staking. StormGain Fees Pros Cons ✅Join StormGain Now  Phemex is one of the top crypto futures trading exchanges.  With a daily crypto trading volume of $59 million, according to CoinMarketCap, the exchange is giving tough competition to the industry leaders. If we talk about the product offerings, the Phemex exchange allows you to trade in crypto spot, margin, and perpetual swaps markets. It doesn’t offer standard futures. However, for Bitcoin futures trading, you are getting a maximum leverage of 100x. Plus, you have access to various crypto pairs.  The number is 216+ and includes coins like BTC, ETH, SOL, DOT, and many more. Even Phemex does a pretty good job when it comes to introducing new coins to the platform regularly. As a result, you will find both the most traded and newly launched trading pairs. Now, regarding the futures and derivatives contracts trading fees, Phemex follows a tiered fee structure based on your 30-day trading volume. However, as a base tier user, you must pay 0.0100% as the maker fee and 0.0600% as the taker fee. Apart from being an economical trading platform, Phemex is an ideal choice for anonymous crypto traders as you don’t have to complete KYC to start trading on the exchange. Also, without verifying, your account will enjoy a daily crypto withdrawal limit of up to $50.00K. Founded in 2019, Phemex has quickly become one of the common choices among crypto futures traders. Also, the exchange claims to be one of the most efficient Bitcoin futures contract exchanges out there. Overall, trading on Phemex would be a smooth experience for you. It has a pro trading interface to help you with your trading activities. Also, it offers you additional crypto trading features such as copy trading, bot trading, prediction markets, access to airdrops, etc.  Phemex Fees Pros Cons ✅Join Phemex Now Binance Futures is among the top 5 platforms for trading cryptocurrency futures. It is known as the world’s largest day trading crypto exchange with a 24-hour trading volume of more than $6 billion as per CoinMarketCap, which is one of the highest liquidity that any other exchange offers. The derivatives contract trading platform is known for offering a wide range of crypto markets and products related to crypto investing and trading. If we talk about the markets, using the exchange, you can trade in spot, margin, perpetual, and standard futures contracts (perpetual and quarterly futures) and crypto options. But it also offers you additional features like P2P trading, block trading, trading bots and many more. If we talk about crypto futures trading specifically, Binance offers you a maximum leverage of 125x. Plus, you get access to over 600+ crypto pairs, including well-known and newly launched tokens. As far as the trading fees are concerned, the exchange also follows a tiered fee structure. However, as a regular user, it charges you a maker and taker fee of 0.0200% and 0.0400%, respectively. Additionally, you are also getting a 10% discount if you pay your fees using BNB (Binance’s native token). So, the reversed trading fee would be 0.0180% and 0.0360% as maker and taker fees. Now, coming to the KYC part, Binance has made it mandatory to complete your user verification. Also, it has different levels of KYC. So, depending on which KYC level you complete, you will get an additional withdrawal limit and other features. Also, Binance approves your KYC application quite quickly, so you won’t have to wait for too long. One of the highlights of Binance is that it offers you a unique feature called insurance funds, which most other crypto exchanges lack. Thanks to this feature, your account will remain protected when your equity (assets-liabilities) is lower than 0, or the assets of the pledged currency borrowing orders are insolvent. Originally launched in Shanghai, China, in 2017, Binance Futures has quickly made its name and became the fan-favorite crypto exchange. As of today, the exchange is based out of the Cayman Islands and has its headquarters in Tokyo and Malta. Binance Fees Pros Cons ✅Join Binance Now Kraken Futures is an ideal choice for US traders as there are only a limited number of futures exchanges available in the region. Since its launch, Kraken has been known for offering a safe and secure trading environment to its users. It is one of the oldest crypto exchanges, launched back in 2011. The exchange is based out of the United States, and it comes with some of the best crypto trading features. The best part of Kraken is that, if you are a newbie or an advanced trader, Kraken offers you an excellent service, deep liquidity handy tools, low trading fees, and multiple funding options. As far as the product offerings are concerned, the exchange helps you with spot, margin, and futures trading. Along with that, it also offers you access to NFT trading and allows you to earn rewards on your crypto. Coming to KYC, being registered in the US, users must verify their account with proper details. But the overall KYC verification process is pretty straightforward. If we talk about Kraken futures trading, the exchange offers you up to 50x leverage. Plus, you can access various futures trading pairs; more than 233 crypto leverage trading pairs are available on the exchange. As far as the trading fee is concerned, it also follows the usual tiered fee structure with maker and taker fees. Regular users with a trading volume between $0 to $50,000 will get charged a maker fee of 0.0200% and a taker fee of 0.0500%. Ultimately, Kraken should be your go-to choice if you are a US-based trader. The exchange holds several regulatory licenses to operate in multiple regions and is undoubtedly the most trusted crypto futures exchange. You can also use Kraken to buy or sell crypto tokens and use it for investment purposes. Kraken Fees Pros Cons Gate.io is also one of the oldest crypto futures exchanges that offer a smooth trading experience. The exchange was founded in 2013. Originally from China, Gate.io, as of today, is based out of the Cayman Islands. CoinMarketCap also marks the exchange as one of the top 10 crypto exchanges worldwide, with a daily trading volume of more than $4.48 billion. There are quite a lot of great things about Gate.io. Starting with the product offerings, Gate.io helps you with spot, margin trading, leveraged tokens, and derivatives trading in perpetual futures and traditional futures. As well as the exchange also offers you additional crypto trading features such as block trading, bot trading, and copy trading. Talking about the supported tokens, it supports a wide selection of crypto futures contracts. The total number of listed tokens surpasses the mark of 1754, and it is known for offering deep liquidity. As far as cryptocurrency futures contracts are concerned, it offers you a maximum leverage of 100x for trading bitcoin. Also, if we talk about the trading costs, it follows a tiered fee structure. It charges you maker and taker fees of 0.015% and 0.050%, respectively. Gate.io also doesn’t require you to complete KYC to start trading. However, by completing identity verification on the exchange, you can enjoy an increased withdrawal limit. Overall, Gate.io is the best Bitcoin futures exchange, with operational licenses for many regions like Arizona, Georgia, and many more. Plus, it is known as the most trusted crypto futures trading platform.  Gate.io Fees Pros Cons MEXC is another top platform for crypto futures trading. What’s more? MEXC also doesn’t require you to complete KYC before you can start trading on the platform. Without KYC, you will enjoy a daily withdrawal limit of up to 30 BTC, along with unlimited deposits. The exchange is known for providing the lowest trading cost in the market. Along with that, it also offers you many other cool features that most other contract trading platform doesn’t have. Starting with the product offerings allows you to trade in the spot, margin, and futures contracts with leverage. Plus, it also offers you additional features like copy trading, bot trading, demo trading, etc. The highlight of the exchange is that it supports about 1678 crypto tokens.  Also, MEXC is one of the first exchanges to list any newly launched token. So, if you want to catch the trend by investing in newly launched tokens – it can be your favourite place. Furthermore, the exchange also offers you deep liquidity for futures trading. It has a daily trading volume of more than $1 billion, as per CoinMarketCap. So, executing your future trades at your desired price won’t be a problem. Regarding BTC futures trading, the exchange charges you a fee of 0.010% for takers, and for maker fees, it charges you nothing. And this is what makes this platform one of the cheapest trading platforms. Even if you trade in the spot market using MEXC, it charges zero for both maker and taker fees. As far as the leverage is concerned, it offers you up to 200x leverage for certain Bitcoin futures contracts, which is higher than most exchanges. Overall, MEXC stands as a leading global platform that is widely trusted. The exchange is well-regulated and comes with a pro trading interface. The exchange was also established in 2018, and it is a centralized crypto exchange based in Seychelles. MEXC Fees Pros Cons Is Trading Crypto Futures Safe? Trading crypto futures represents the activity of betting on the future price of a trading pair, and it can be extremely risky because of the involvement of high leverage and volatility. However, the risk depends on a trader’s knowledge, experience, and the leverage in place. What is the best crypto futures exchange without KYC?  Several crypto exchanges let you trade without KYC verifications. Some of the top choices for traders are BingX, Phemex, and MEXC. However, you may still need to verify your account to access additional features or enjoy a higher withdrawal limit.    Which is the Best crypto for futures trading?  There is no sure-shot answer on which cryptocurrency is good for futures trading. Your trading decisions should be based on market sentiment, trade analysis, and other factors. However, trading pairs like Bitcoin, Ethereum and others usually have higher trading volumes. As a result, you will continue to find trading positions that you can consider and enjoy deep liquidity. Which is the best crypto futures trading app? Your choice of cryptocurrency trading app should be based on the crypto exchange. Almost all the crypto trading apps have similar features and interfaces. Plus, learning how to use a trading app is super easy. Instead, to trade futures contracts, you must pick an exchange that suits your trading style, has good leverage, a lower trading fee, and the maximum number of supported tokens. Conclusion So, the top five best crypto futures exchanges are BingX, Bybit, StormGain, Phemex & Binance that offers crypto futures contracts trading which is definitely a lucrative market. But you cannot deny that trading crypto futures contracts also involves high risk. So make sure to choose an exchange that backs you up with advanced trading tools and low trading fees that make it super easy for you to trade futures. Disclaimer: The above is a sponsored post, the views expressed are those of the sponsor/author and do not represent the stand and views of Outlook Editorial. 
Unsung Heroes Of India's Freedom Struggle
 
“An Artist has no Caste": Chinki Sinha in conversation with Madhubani artist Shanti Devi
 
Freedom Of Fantasy | Chinki Sinha In Conversation With Activist And Author Anand Teltumbde
 
Kohli’s T20 journey: Debut Se Domination Tak
 
In Photos: Raksha Bandhan Celebrated Across India
 
Day In Pics: August 19, 2024
 
Napoli 0-3 Hellas Verona, Serie A: Antonio Conte’s Men Falter As Dailon Livramento, Daniel Mosquera Shine On Debut - In Pics
 
Real Madrid 1-1 Mallorca, La Liga: Kylian Mbappe's Debut Ends In Draw,  Rodrygo Finds Net - In Pics
 
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
      
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.
     