Massive green winds of change are sweeping China's manufacturing industry that construction vehicles are now embracing low-carbon transformation, latest data from Sany Heavy Industry showed. The sales data from the Chinese machinery giant over the first half of this year showed that the application of new energy vehicles are constantly rising in scenarios such as municipal sanitation and construction projects. Zhou Guoyuan, CEO of the Pump Machinery Business Unit (PMBU) at Sany Heavy Industry, said: "NEVs are taking an increasing share in the market. In the first half of this year, we sold 647 new energy dumper trucks, accounting for 24 percent of the market share and we are continuing to take a lead in the market." Dumper trucks are mainly used in city construction and the transportation of ballast soil and coal. Under the background of the country advocating energy conservation and emission reduction, the demands of new energy dumper trucks grew rapidly. However, problems of new energy dumper trucks still exist, especially in terms of battery life, energy replenishment, loading and reliability. In 2022, PMBU invested more than 200 million yuan ($27.9 million) in research and development, to enhance technological capabilities in pure EVs, hybrids, hydrogen vehicles and fuel vehicles, so as to develop products that better meet market demands. On July 26, Sany Heavy Industry launched six new types of new energy dumper trucks, to meet refined demands in different scenarios, including ore dumping, urban construction waste dumping and botanical garden construction waste dumping. Xiong Jinfeng, head of the General Technology Research Institute at PMBU, said: "The annual fuel cost of a fuel dumper truck is as high as 1 million yuan. However, a same-type hybrid saves 30 percent of cost per year." According to PMBU, in the coming two to three years, it plans to keep its first place in the new energy construction vehicle sector, aiming at reaching 40 percent of market share and selling 5 billion units in the domestic market per year. Yu Hongfu, director of Sany Group and president of Sany Heavy Industry, said: "In response to the country's carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals, we will continue to implement our digitalization strategy and low-carbon strategy, to bring better products to clients." zhengyiran@chinadaily.com.cn 
            Copyright 1995 -  . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form.
          