Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Supermassive Games has announced that The Dark Pictures: Switchback VR has been delayed by three weeks due to the developer team requiring more time to ensure the most polished and terrifying experience possible. The rail shooter is now planned to release on March 16 instead of February."It has always been our aim to release in the launch window of the new PSVR 2 headset, but it is also massively important to us that you, the players, receive the most polished, terrifying experience possible when you strap in for your first ride in Switchback VR. With this in mind, we have made the difficult decision to set a new launch date of March 16th 2023." Although no particular reasons for the delay have been given, Supermassive Games said they will provide new details about the gameplay soon.
 Supermassive Games has announced that The Dark Pictures: Switchback VR has been delayed by three weeks due to the developer team requiring more time to ensure the most polished and terrifying experience possible. The rail shooter is now planned to release on March 16 instead of February."It has always been our aim to release in the launch window of the new PSVR 2 headset, but it is also massively important to us that you, the players, receive the most polished, terrifying experience possible when you strap in for your first ride in Switchback VR. With this in mind, we have made the difficult decision to set a new launch date of March 16th 2023." Although no particular reasons for the delay have been given, Supermassive Games said they will provide new details about the gameplay soon.  RELATED: How Long Does It Take To Beat The Dark Pictures: The Devil In Me
                     Supermassive Games also reiterated that The Dark Picture: Switchback VR is the studio's most ambitious VR project to date, taking players to five distinct worlds set in the Dark Pictures universe. The upcoming horror shooter is considered a spiritual successor to 2016's Until Dawn: Rush of Blood, branching through the sinister world of The Dark Pictures franchise by combining fast-paced action and beat'em up style. The distorted apparitions of the game's world require players to choose their every move carefully to survive.
                         Players will come face to face with the most terrifying antagonists from Season One of The Dark Pictures Anthology. They will fight against other-worldly vampires and escape the Fair Hostel's serial killer for their life. Taking place in a nightmare, players will choose their own path that will test their reactions to horrifying moments.
                         Hideous demonic incarnations of persecuted ‘witches’ will be seeking victims for blood. The upcoming rail shooter will utilize PlayStation VR2's innovative capabilities with adaptive triggers, haptic feedback, and HDMI rumble for an immersive horror experience.
                         Players can now pre-order The Dark: Switchback VR on the PlayStation Store to receive the Inferno Pack, which includes Demon Handgun, a special edition gold gun, a premium skull, a bones cart, and a skull bubble head that can be used to level up weapons. The Dark Pictures: Switchback VR will be released exclusively for PlayStation VR2 on March 16.
      NEXT: Microsoft Subpoenas PlayStation To Reveal Production Details In FTC Case
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows. Sorry, we're closed.  If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. A new rumor suggests Netflix's live-action Pokémon series remains in development.