On Friday, Utah officials released various pictures and videos related to the case against  “8 Passengers” YouTuber Ruby Franke — who was sentenced last month to at least four years in prison for abusing her children. Fifth District Judge John Walton sentenced Franke to four consecutive sentences of one to 15 years in prison. Franke’s … The Miami-Dade State Attorney’s Office released graphics images this week, taken in the aftermath of 27-year-old Christian Obumseli’s death. OnlyFans model Courtney Clenney, who’s accused of killing her boyfriend, Obumseli, remains behind bars on second-degree murder charges. Her defense attorneys are arguing that she acted in self-defense but prosecutors say she was the aggressor, and … Photos being presented during Colorado man Mark Redwine’s trial have been released to the public as his murder trial continues in a Denver courtroom. As CrimeOnline previously reported, Redwine, the divorced father of a 13-year-old slain boy, Dylan Redwine, is on trial for allegedly murdering his son in November 2012 and hiding the child’s remains … *WARNING*: Images may be disturbing to some viewers  Officials have released photos, bodycam footage, and a 911 call from last month’s incident involving former Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum, who was allegedly found drunk in a hotel room with a male escort suffering an apparent drug overdose. On March 13, responding officers reportedly found Gillum, 40, in a Miami Beach hotel room with … Colorado prosecutors on Friday released a stash of imagery used to convict Patrick Frazee in the death of his fiancee, Kelsey Berreth — a year to the day since she was last seen. Among the photos is the last known picture of Berreth, an image captured by her neighbor’s security camera at about 1:30 p.m. … “I had these obsessive desires to wanting to control them … possess them permanently.” *WARNING*: GRAPHIC IMAGES  Although it’s debatable when notorious serial killer Ted Bundy began his murderous spree,  it’s widely-known that he raped and killed numerous women throughout the 1970s. Bundy admitted to killing 36 women, but experts think the numbers reach into the hundreds. During the mid-1970s’, when Bundy lived in Seattle, numerous young women in the area began … New details continue to emerge in the case of a Florida doctor bludgeoned to death in her own home in 2015. Her husband, Mark Sievers, is currently on trial for her murder. Naples Daily News reports that on June 28, 2015, Dr. Teresa Sievers was beaten to death with a hammer while inside her Bonita Springs, … In 2008, Arizona woman Jodi Arias drove to her former boyfriend’s home and murdered him in cold blood, leaving behind overwhelming pieces of evidence. Authorities found Mesa resident, Travis Alexander, 30, dead in his own shower with his throat slit, a gunshot wound to his head, and stabs across his back and body. A coroner … On Thursday, the New York District Attorney released crime scene photos showing blood spatter and the knife allegedly used by nanny Yoselyn Ortega to kill two young children in her care. According to the Daily Mail, the District Attorney publicized the gruesome photos a week after they were presented to a jury. Ortega, 55, is charged … Do you want to read more articles like this?