Stock price fluctuations in Trend Innovations Holding Inc. TREN may be erratic due to their thinly-traded, low float metric, but know this: Bidders can get excellent entry points. In fact, with a spread of up to 10% or more on some days, patience when holding this company's stock would be more than a virtue; it could put potentially significant gains into immediate play. Of course, investment purely as a technical play may be short-sighted, considering TREN just closed an acquisition expected to significantly steepen its growth trajectory.  Last week, Trend Innovations announced acquiring what could be a transformative new asset, Avant! AI™, a powerful and unique AI engine expediting its 2023 plans to penetrate a massive global market opportunity and create meaningful and sustainable shareholder value. Both could happen sooner than later, noting that acquiring Avant! AI™ expands TREN's portfolio of assets targeting revenue-generating opportunities across the entirety of the AI landscape.  The better news, it's not a long-term proposition. Because of Avant! AI™ already an established and proven AI engine, it does more than immediately position TREN for appreciable revenue growth; it likely makes the company attractive to more prominent sector players looking to expedite seizing on their own market interests. Remember, while headlines boast of what AI can do, the value inherent to new investment is more closely aligned to the software market opportunity, expected to eclipse $ 138.4 billion in revenue-generating opportunity this year. More importantly, it's a segment still in its infancy.   Total AI Market Opportunities Exceed $328 Billion Market opportunities, and the revenues associated with it, are expected to strengthen further as software upgrades tap deeper into a combined AI market potential estimated to be an over $328 billion market this year. The deal Trend Innovations made should allow them to capitalize quickly and, as importantly, monetize diversified market opportunities inherent to the growth of differentiated AI market segments. Notably, while the AI software market in play for TREN is substantial today, it's forecast to get substantially larger, with an expected CAGR of 22% into 2032, putting an over $1.1 trillion market in play within ten years. Simply put, TREN is exploiting its potential at the right time. And its smallcap valuation could offer big-time returns.  In fact, from a share price perspective, TREN looks valued at ground floor prices considering the milestones reached and acquisitions made to fuel its growth. Shares surged by over 99% last month, showing that its thinly traded nature can facilitate extraordinary moves. Undoubtedly, that type of volatility cuts both ways. However, back to the premise of patience can be rewarding; taking advantage of a wide bid/ask spread could be a wise strategy to buy low and sell high. Remember, TREN shares do see upticks in volume on news. So, with announcements likely in the queue, positioning ahead of them may be a timely consideration. That's especially true with TREN advancing its mission in a red-hot AI sector. And with Avant! AI™ strengthening an already impressive asset portfolio by being at the forefront of machine learning platforms, TREN's path to expediting growth looks clearer than ever. In addition, its newest asset technology diversifies opportunities. In other words, while TREN was already exploiting revenue-generating opportunities with its flagship THY News app, the Avant! AI™ acquisition adds new ones by expanding product and service reach in developing client-specific AI solutions in-house or through third-party developers. Either way, it's a win for TREN. Proliferating Through Accretive Assets But there's more to like. Also contributing to the TREN value proposition are assets strengthening its position as a B2B solutions provider by offering its technology to companies in the entertainment, cybersecurity, healthcare, information technology, hospitality, finance, retail, and transportation sectors. Additionally, with its newest platform developed as a Software Development Kit, TREN's business reach extends to third-party developers wanting and often needing to integrate platforms like Avant! AI™ into their own products and services. Avant! AI™ is powerful enough to attract that interest, with TREN believing it can be a pivotal contributor to developing applications intent on introducing the power of AI across industries.  Positioning to capitalize on that potential is not a coincidence. Avant! AI™ facilitates that comprehensive scope by " learning" volumes of information and then streamlining processes to implement specific strategies. Furthermore, because the platform efficiently consolidates vast amounts of data in real-time, TREN can capitalize on opportunities presented by Artificial General Intelligence applications, autonomous machines, medical agents, and cybersecurity. Potential market penetrations extend well beyond those. Its differences are advantages. Unlike many AI technologies, Avant! AI™ can learn independently, constantly enhancing its information database with "unsupervised" learning capabilities. While Avant! AI™ does have "chatbot" functionality like Open AI's well-known ChatGPT; other features provide businesses and consumers with a language interface to interact with their devices and systems. That results from leveraging the power of its algorithms to analyze and learn from large amounts of data and then deliver informed decisions.  Advanced AI Technology Fueling 2023 Growth That's a unique ability compared to many competing platforms. Another is serving a benefit by utilizing natural language processing to interpret and communicate user requests. In an innovative way, Avant! AI™ is designed to respond to questions about complex situations and provide a range of evidence-based responses and recommendations. Those responses use statistical modeling that scores viable solutions. Notably, Avant! AI™ keeps getting smarter, gaining knowledge and expertise by learning from experiences and failures similar to humans.  An example of its utility can be expressed by its value to the healthcare industry. Avant! AI™ could be offered as a "medical expert agent" for medical websites and apps. It could also function as a personal medical assistant for doctors, nurses, patients, and anyone needing accurate, quickly provided information. Another example is highlighting the role it can play in manufacturing. The learned expertise can be used to achieve increased reliability of products by assisting in their development with design and analysis software that can ensure reliability, optimal power, and performance abilities. In both use cases, it's available 24/7, putting a super-intelligent agent at users' fingertips anytime, anywhere. And that's the type of value expected to generate significant interest in TREN's technologies.  Better still, with its platform's intuitiveness to achieve 'human objectives,' TREN can turn that client interest into revenues, which from an investors perspective, is more than a reason to put TREN atop a short list of AI-sector investment opportunities; it's a reason to take advantage of a valuation disconnect sooner than later. And based on TREN's sum of its parts, one is certainly exposed.     Disclaimers: Shore Thing Media, LLC. (STM, Llc.) is responsible for the production and distribution of this content. STM, Llc. is not operated by a licensed broker, a dealer, or a registered investment adviser. It should be expressly understood that under no circumstances does any information published herein represent a recommendation to buy or sell a security. Our reports/releases are a commercial advertisement and are for general information purposes ONLY. We are engaged in the business of marketing and advertising companies for monetary compensation. Never invest in any stock featured on our site or emails unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. The information made available by STM, Llc. is not intended to be, nor does it constitute, investment advice or recommendations. The contributors may buy and sell securities before and after any particular article, report and publication. In no event shall STM, Llc. be liable to any member, guest or third party for any damages of any kind arising out of the use of any content or other material published or made available by STM, Llc., including, without limitation, any investment losses, lost profits, lost opportunity, special, incidental, indirect, consequential or punitive damages. Past performance is a poor indicator of future performance. The information in this video, article, and in its related newsletters, is not intended to be, nor does it constitute, investment advice or recommendations. STM, Llc. strongly urges you conduct a complete and independent investigation of the respective companies and consideration of all pertinent risks. Readers are advised to review SEC periodic reports: Forms 10-Q, 10K, Form 8-K, insider reports, Forms 3, 4, 5 Schedule 13D. For some content, STM, Llc., its authors, contributors, or its agents, may be compensated for preparing research, video graphics, and editorial content. STM, LLC has been compensated up to ten-thousand-dollars cash via wire transfer by a third party to produce and syndicate content for Trend Innovations Holding, Inc. for a period of one month ending on 4/30/23. As part of that content, readers, subscribers, and website viewers, are expected to read the full disclaimers and financial disclosures statement that can be found on our website. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides investors a safe harbor in regard to forward-looking statements. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, goals, assumptions or future events or performance are not statements of historical fact may be forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are based on expectations, estimates, and projections at the time the statements are made that involve a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those presently anticipated. Forward looking statements in this action may be identified through use of words such as projects, foresee, expects, will, anticipates, estimates, believes, understands, or that by statements indicating certain actions & quote; may, could, or might occur. Understand there is no guarantee past performance will be indicative of future results. Investing in micro-cap and growth securities is highly speculative and carries an extremely high degree of risk. It is possible that an investors investment may be lost or impaired due to the speculative nature of the companies profiled. Media ContactCompany Name: STM, LLC.Contact Person: Michael ThomasEmail: contact@primetimeprofiles.comPhone: 917-773-0072Country: United StatesWebsite: https://primetimeprofiles.com/   Press Release Distributed by ABNewswire.com

To view the original version on ABNewswire visit: Trend Innovations Acquisition Of Avant! AI™ Accelerates Tapping Into A $138-Billion AI Software Market Opportunity ($TREN)
 © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.