
Home
 Don't miss out Subscribe to STAT+ today, for the best life sciences journalism in the industry By Adam Feuerstein  and Allison DeAngelis Jan. 8, 2023 SAN FRANCISCO — What should be a triumphant return to the global biotech industry’s biggest annual event, “JPM Week,” after a two-year hiatus is turning as gloomy as Bay Area weather, with industry executives forecasting economic troubles in the year ahead. STAT asked more than 100 biotech and pharma executives, investors, and other insiders how they’re feeling about the state of the sector heading into 2023 and on the eve of the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco. The biggest takeaway: Nearly 70% of respondents said financing — raising venture capital, launching an IPO, or selling additional stock to further fund R&D and other operations — will be a headwind in 2023. Eighty percent of biotech insiders told STAT that macroeconomic factors were also likely to pose challenges. advertisement “I’m assuming that it’s going to suck,” said ARCH Venture Partners co-founder Bob Nelsen, when asked for his view on the biotech financial outlook. Nelsen usually throws a big party during JPM Week — the industry’s largest and most important business and networking meeting, which in the past has served as the venue for multibillion-dollar acquisitions, strategy sessions, and company launches. But this year, there’ll be no party, Nelsen told STAT; he’s just not in the celebratory mood. STAT+ Exclusive Story Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Monthly $39 Totals $468 per year Totals $468 per year Starter $30 for 3 months, then $39/month Then $39/month Annual $399 Save 15% Save 15% 11+ Users Custom Savings start at 25%! Savings start at 25%! 2-10 Users $300 Annually per user $300 Annually per user 
						Get unlimited access to award-winning journalism and exclusive events.					 Senior Writer, Biotech Adam Feuerstein is a senior writer and biotech columnist, reporting on the crossroads of drug development, business, Wall Street, and biotechnology. He is also a co-host of the weekly biotech podcast, The Readout Loud. Biotech Startups and Venture Capital Reporter Allison DeAngelis is the East Coast biotech and venture capital reporter at STAT, reporting where scientific ideas and money meet. She is also co-host of the weekly biotech podcast, The Readout Loud. biotechnology jpm STAT+ 
					STAT encourages you to share your voice. We welcome your commentary, criticism, and expertise on our subscriber-only platform, STAT+ Connect
 To submit a correction request, please visit our Contact Us page. advertisement Reporting from the frontiers of health and medicine Company Account More