
Apr 08, 2023

Related News

Pope to Rimini Meeting: Faith in Jesus is what is essential in lifePope to visit Asia, Oceania in SeptemberCatholic prelate awarded for promoting peace among religious communities in PakistanPope calls for prayers for humanitarians risking their livesChina jails Uyghur brothers for ‘charitable works’Pope Francis receives president of Malawi at Vatican



Working together as a team to move the ping pong ball.
FRASER’S HILL: Eighty lay leaders from the Church of St Ignatius learnt that teamwork is about opening their hearts and minds. Parish priest Fr Lawrence Ng, CDD, told the leaders at the start of the three-day retreat that “the Church is not a building but you, my brothers and sisters in Christ, as the salt of the earth and light of the world.” Assisting Fr Lawrence was Fr Martin Then, CDD. Leaders had their teamwork ability tested when they were asked to pitch a tent together with a member blindfolded and another’s hand tied. Fr Lawrence added the two challenges to “reflect that we may be differently abled but we are all loved by God, Who gives us the strength to work in His vineyard”. He stressed that teamwork was best served by a desire to truly complement each other’s strengths and weaknesses. Each group had to get its members inside the tent once it was pitched. When the smaller tents could not fit all, Fr Lawrence encouraged the leaders to always unlock their creativity to enlarge the given space and “never to give up easily in our desire to be inclusive”. He asked the leaders to reflect on how Moses and his people lived in tents in the desert for 40 Years during the Exodus. All activities for the lay leaders, who came from the three languages apostolates — English, Mandarin, and Bahasa Malaysia — were to infuse team spirit and bonding in problem-solving. It was the first SIC retreat where all three language groups were brought together. The participants represented the various ministries and BECs. As a self-introduction, the leaders brought an item that best described them. Their connection with their items was written down and presented for all to see and for the leaders to know one another better. The other team-building activity was the ping pong ball challenge which required members to work as one, pulling the strings attached to a ring in the centre. The strings were like the spokes of a wheel joined to the hub. Working in perfect unity, they had to manoeuvre the strings to move the pingpong ball onto the ring. Fr Lawrence said the focus should be on teamwork in moving the ping pong ball, not on the ball itself.
The parish priest asked the lay leaders to write affirmations on each other’s positive traits, inspiring one another to be exemplary servants of God’s people. The retreatants also observed 18 hours of silent reflection on God’s affirmation (Isaiah 43:1-5) on the first night. Participant Kim said, “when we observed silence, we enjoyed the outdoors more since we couldn’t chitchat so much.” On the second night, Fr Martin led the silent Eucharistic Adoration. After the Rite of Eucharistic Exposition and Benediction, the priests presented the St Benedict Crucifix, symbolising their send off on a mission after their “road to Emmaus”, which was the theme of the retreat. -- stignatiuspj.org 
 FRASER’S HILL: Eighty lay leaders from the Church of St Ignatius learnt that teamwork is about opening their hearts and minds. Parish priest Fr Lawrence Ng, CDD, told the leaders at the start of the three-day retreat that “the Church is not a building but you, my brothers and sisters in Christ, as the salt of the earth and light of the world.” Assisting Fr Lawrence was Fr Martin Then, CDD. Leaders had their teamwork ability tested when they were asked to pitch a tent together with a member blindfolded and another’s hand tied. Fr Lawrence added the two challenges to “reflect that we may be differently abled but we are all loved by God, Who gives us the strength to work in His vineyard”. He stressed that teamwork was best served by a desire to truly complement each other’s strengths and weaknesses. Each group had to get its members inside the tent once it was pitched. When the smaller tents could not fit all, Fr Lawrence encouraged the leaders to always unlock their creativity to enlarge the given space and “never to give up easily in our desire to be inclusive”. He asked the leaders to reflect on how Moses and his people lived in tents in the desert for 40 Years during the Exodus. All activities for the lay leaders, who came from the three languages apostolates — English, Mandarin, and Bahasa Malaysia — were to infuse team spirit and bonding in problem-solving. It was the first SIC retreat where all three language groups were brought together. The participants represented the various ministries and BECs. As a self-introduction, the leaders brought an item that best described them. Their connection with their items was written down and presented for all to see and for the leaders to know one another better. The other team-building activity was the ping pong ball challenge which required members to work as one, pulling the strings attached to a ring in the centre. The strings were like the spokes of a wheel joined to the hub. Working in perfect unity, they had to manoeuvre the strings to move the pingpong ball onto the ring. Fr Lawrence said the focus should be on teamwork in moving the ping pong ball, not on the ball itself. The parish priest asked the lay leaders to write affirmations on each other’s positive traits, inspiring one another to be exemplary servants of God’s people. The retreatants also observed 18 hours of silent reflection on God’s affirmation (Isaiah 43:1-5) on the first night. Participant Kim said, “when we observed silence, we enjoyed the outdoors more since we couldn’t chitchat so much.” On the second night, Fr Martin led the silent Eucharistic Adoration. After the Rite of Eucharistic Exposition and Benediction, the priests presented the St Benedict Crucifix, symbolising their send off on a mission after their “road to Emmaus”, which was the theme of the retreat. -- stignatiuspj.org St. Bernard de Clairvaux Ezekiel 28:1-10 Deuteronomy 32:26-28, 30, 35-36 Matthew 19:23-30 Teach me your paths, my God