To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. All products featured on Vogue are independently selected by our editors. However, we may earn affiliate revenue on this article and commission when you buy something. Like the brand’s signature check print, the Burberry bikini has risen to icon status. From the unforgettable moment Beyoncé donned the tartan bikini in a waterless pool for the 2004 “Bonnie & Clyde” music video to the more recent sightings of Irina Shayk luxuriating in Spain, it’s remained a summer staple that has withstood the test of time. While the heritage British brand was founded in 1856 by Thomas Burberry with a focus on weatherproof designs, it wasn’t until the 1920s that the now trademarked pattern was first used on the inner lining of garments. More than 40 years later, in 1967, the tartan pattern took center stage on a host of scarves and umbrellas. Over the years, the black, white, and red lines set on a beige backdrop have morphed into a symbol of status and prestige, especially in the logomania days of the ’90s. Remember the ads of Kate Moss and an entire wedding party sporting the print? Now newly appointed creative director Daniel Lee— who has a strong track record for viral sartorial hits—is satiating our appetite for refined, unmistakable logos with the release of a new swimsuit campaign. On the Burberry website you’ll find the classic Burberry bikini along with new takes that include the label’s signature knight as well as updated colorways, such as blue and black. It’s hard to make any logo-emblazoned item feel classic, yet the Burberry brand has hit the nail on the head with its beloved bikini. The classic swimsuit has proven its endurance, and we certainly don’t see that changing anytime soon.  Burberry check stretch nylon triangle bikini BURBERRY Burberry check trim triangle bikini BURBERRY Burberry check trim triangle bikini BURBERRY Burberry check swimsuit BURBERRY  Burberry check swimsuit BURBERRY  Burberry check stretch nylon asymmetric swimsuit BURBERRY Shop Summer’s Standout Pieces—All for Under $300 The Best New Arrivals to Shop Now The Summer Dress Shop Is Here—100+ Best Styles of the Season Vogue Essentials: Shop Wardrobe Staples That Will Never Go Out of Style What's Everyone Buying These Days? Shop 60+ It Items That Are Defining Fashion Right Now The Resort Wear Shop: 80+ Pieces of Vacation-Ready Fashion to Shop Now Sign up for Vogue’s shopping newsletter to receive the insider’s guide to what to shop and how to wear it By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Vogue. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty