Customizable rollup provider Eclipse is launching a Solana-focused scaling solution, which allows applications to be compatible with Polygon, the companies exclusively told TechCrunch. Rollups, a part of the layer-2 blockchain ecosystem, are a scaling solution to help make blockchains faster and cheaper. Rollups work by compiling a number of transactions into one bundle to go onto a layer-1 blockchain like Ethereum or Solana. So basically, instead of sending thousands of individual transactions, it’s one larger one that costs less. The Polygon Solana -- or Sealevel -- Virtual Machine (SVM) will be powered by Eclipse and will be able to run smart contracts and tooling compatible with Solana, which will ultimately increase throughput speed and interoperability for crypto subsectors like gaming, DeFi and more, Neel Somani, founder of Eclipse, said to TechCrunch. “Ethereum was obviously still really slow and still very expensive, so it was very obvious rollups were the path to scaling Ethereum,” Somani said. “So we were thinking, what if we made a highly parallelized rollup, but the difference is that we stick to a standard set of tooling that already exists like the Solana Virtual Machine or Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).” That was the initial motivation behind Eclipse, but it’s evolved into a customizable rollup provider: People can pick their base level (like Polygon or Solana), choose a virtual machine like EVM or SVM, and make customizations in the application that might include different elements at the core level, Somani said. Applications, games, projects, protocols and more are still “too expensive” in the crypto ecosystem, but rollups can help support different use cases without constraining the blockchain, Somani said. Through the launch, decentralized applications (dApps) built for the Solana blockchain can migrate or become multichain through the Polygon SVM, which can open up the doors for both communities using and building on different blockchains. Between the two communities, there’s been high demand for a collaborative solution in mainly the gaming and physical infrastructure application spaces, Somani said. “That’s the big areas we’ve been seeing demand for and it’s the areas where Polygon and Solana have been going after lately.” In the long term, Eclipse sees this launch as just the beginning for scaling. “I think this hinges toward a future proliferation of all kinds of virtual machines across all these different base layers,” Somani said. “This might be one example of an SVM rollup, but we are likely to see SVM on Ethereum mainnet or SVM on other base layers.” Correction: The headline on this story was updated to properly reflect the launch of the scaling solution. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.