Brought to you by  The consumer industry continues to be a hotbed of patent innovation. Activity is driven by environmental sustainability, convenience, aesthetics, and the growing importance of personalized nutrition, food safety and transparency, and digital food management technologies. In the last three years alone, there have been over 662,000 patents filed and granted in the consumer industry, according to GlobalData’s report on Innovation in consumer: plant-based antioxidants. Buy the report here. The consumer industry continues to be a hotbed of patent innovation. Activity is driven by environmental sustainability, convenience, aesthetics, and the growing importance of personalized nutrition, food safety and transparency, and digital food management technologies. In the last three years alone, there have been over 662,000 patents filed and granted in the consumer industry, according to GlobalData’s report on Innovation in consumer: plant-based antioxidants. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 However, not all innovations are equal and nor do they follow a constant upward trend. Instead, their evolution takes the form of an S-shaped curve that reflects their typical lifecycle from early emergence to accelerating adoption, before finally stabilizing and reaching maturity. Identifying where a particular innovation is on this journey, especially those that are in the emerging and accelerating stages, is essential for understanding their current level of adoption and the likely future trajectory and impact they will have. 30+ innovations will shape the consumer industry According to GlobalData’s Technology Foresights, which plots the S-curve for the consumer industry using innovation intensity models built on over 116,000 patents, there are 30+ innovation areas that will shape the future of the industry. Within the emerging innovation stage, microencapsulated proteins, plant-based cheese substitutes, and texturized vegetable proteins are disruptive technologies that are in the early stages of application and should be tracked closely. Botulinum toxin, beverage pods, and filled confectionary manufacturing are some of the accelerating innovation areas, where adoption has been steadily increasing. Among maturing innovation areas are anabolic muscle supplements and protein-fortified beverages, which are now well established in the industry. Innovation S-curve for the consumer industry Plant-based antioxidants is a key innovation area in consumer Plant-based antioxidants are natural compounds found in various plant-based foods, such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, and herbs. They have the ability to neutralize harmful molecules known as free radicals, which cause oxidative stress and can lead to various chronic diseases in humans. GlobalData’s analysis also uncovers the companies at the forefront of each innovation area and assesses the potential reach and impact of their patenting activity across different applications and geographies. According to GlobalData, there are 40+ companies, spanning technology vendors, established consumer companies, and up-and-coming start-ups engaged in the development and application of plant-based antioxidants. Key players in plant-based antioxidants – a disruptive innovation in the consumer industry ‘Application diversity’ measures the number of applications identified for each patent. It broadly splits companies into either ‘niche’ or ‘diversified’ innovators.   ‘Geographic reach’ refers to the number of countries each patent is registered in. It reflects the breadth of geographic application intended, ranging from ‘global’ to ‘local’.  Source: GlobalData Patent Analytics Nestlé SA is one of the leading patent filers in plant-based antioxidants. Some other key patent filers in the space include Unilever Plc, Danone SA, and Royal DSM NV. Danone North America, entered into a collaboration with Brightseed, an AI-driven biotechnology firm. Brightseed, has developed an AI platform tailored for the identification of phytonutrients, including antioxidants, at a molecular scale. In terms of application diversity, Symrise AG leads the pack, with Barlean's Organic Oils, L.L.C. and Archer Daniels Midland Co. in the second and third positions, respectively. By means of geographic reach, Danone SA holds the top position, followed by Abbott Laboratories and Otsuka Holdings Co. Ltd. There is a growing trend towards plant-based diets and a greater awareness of the health benefits associated with consuming antioxidants from plant sources. Antioxidants, which are compounds that help protect cells from damage caused by harmful molecules called free radicals, are abundant in many plant-based foods. To further understand the key themes and technologies disrupting the consumer industry, access GlobalData’s latest thematic research report on Consumer. 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying data, research, and analysis used to produce this article. GlobalData’s Patent Analytics tracks patent filings and grants from official offices around the world. Textual analysis and official patent classifications are used to group patents into key thematic areas and link them to specific companies across the world’s largest industries. Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Food :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Global Food Industry News | Market Research and Reports - Just Food 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024