GM, Database at SolarWinds.   Companies have accelerated their shift to the cloud. Yet, at least in the immediate future, it seems unlikely that we will see companies move either fully to the cloud or move entirely to a single cloud solution. In 2021 companies used an average of 2.6 public and 2.7 private clouds. Every organization has databases, applications and other resources they prefer to either keep in on-premises data centers or in a private cloud. At the same time, companies want to take advantage of the benefits offered by different cloud vendors. A multi-cloud strategy provides freedom and flexibility to use the best cloud for any particular workload. Multi-cloud environments can also speed up development and delivery of custom web applications. A recent study from Gartner reveals that roughly 92% of enterprises have a multi-cloud strategy, while 80% have a hybrid cloud strategy. Meanwhile, the same survey demonstrates that 54% of cloud teams are responsible for governing infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) usage and costs. The new reality is hybrid and multi-cloud, and that’s not going away anytime soon. And yet, despite the benefits, a multi-cloud strategy can sometimes feel chaotic for the Ops teams managing complex IT environments. A multi-cloud strategy can also sometimes happen by accident. Inherited environments from M&A, shadow IT and many other reasons can lead to an accidental multi-cloud environment. Regardless of whether your multi-cloud approach is accidental or by design, here are four important strategies to help ensure your multi-cloud management works for your business. It’s harder to have visibility into a multi-cloud environment. IT, DevOps and cloud teams have historically relied on numerous monitoring tools for visibility in multi-cloud environments. But this isn’t working anymore. According to a survey from SolarWinds, 54% of tech pros reported that they have visibility into only half or less of their organization’s apps and infrastructures. If teams are unable to access understanding surrounding the health of their IT estate, when an issue arises, they are unable to effectively conduct root-cause analysis for remediation. And because there is usually an overload of monitoring information, in the absence of anomaly detection or similar AIOps, there persists an ongoing threat of alert fatigue. This has led to the rise of observability for hybrid and multi-cloud environments. Organizations employing a multi-cloud strategy need intelligent single pane-of-glass observability solutions that leverage AIOps to help them achieve optimum performance, compliance and resilience in their environments. As a disclosure, my company SolarWinds is one provider of such solutions. When it comes to their multi-cloud management, organizations need to determine which workload to run in which clouds. A workload placement process that determines where your applications and databases live and run is critical for multi-cloud success. The big cloud providers all have their own strengths and weaknesses. Weighing which provider is best for each workload can help ensure you enjoy all the benefits of a multi-cloud strategy. As your IT estate grows over multiple clouds and on-premises environments, your sanity depends on a maintained topographical view within your observability solution. Matching each workload with the “best” cloud is critical to getting the most benefit from your multi-cloud strategy. When assessing a workload, start with the data. The underpinning databases for a workload represent the most storage, compute and network cloud consumption. Databases often represent the bulk of your cloud spending. Determine which cloud offers the best fit for your preferred database tech: Delivering high security, availability and performance at the best cost. Your database decision will usually affect cloud selection for other workload components and their apps, connected reporting/analytics and more. This is further complicated by the fact that modern cloud-native applications leverage many databases. And while it’s not always possible to co-locate purpose-built databases within the same cloud, it’s usually best. This decision will often come down to cost, but co-location speeds testing and deployment and reduces data access latency. There are other considerations surrounding data placement. If data sovereignty or other compliance requirements arise which require complete control of certain databases, you may elect to keep those on-premises or in a private cloud. Committed use agreements with cloud providers can ensure you get the best prices possible for your various cloud needs. Leveraging containerization is important in multi-cloud environments. Packaging applications and databases in containers allow for portability across clouds without sacrificing performance. This portability also makes it possible for your DevOps teams to test applications in different clouds. You can also optimize databases and applications in multi-cloud environments through platforms like Kubernetes and Docker that can automate workloads across cloud providers. Another important benefit of containerization and its portability is it can help you control costs. While developers may want to use the native technology available in a given cloud, doing so can lock you into a costly long-term agreement with one provider. Containerization means you can maintain the same codebase and still move the application from cloud to cloud and back on-premises. All the while, you can accurately compare costs between different cloud providers. Multi-cloud approaches have become popular because of the benefits they offer. When done right, an effective multi-cloud strategy can provide businesses with unparalleled digital dexterity. Forbes Business Development Council is an invitation-only community for sales and biz dev executives. Do I qualify? 