Septimatech Group celebrates its 30th year of contributing toward improving packaging line efficiency for numerous globally renowned consumer goods brands. This content was written and submitted by the supplier. It has only been modified to comply with this publication’s space and style. Septimatech, which today serves customers in more than 40 countries, was founded by seven Canadian packaging professionals and engineers in 1993, who recognized a void in the marketplace in delivering exceptional customer service, responsive delivery, and superior quality solutions. Their idea was to help their industry colleagues overcome container handling and changeover challenges as production speeds increased, and container geometric shapes and sizes became more complex placing greater need on machine and line flexibility.  They named their new company Septimatech, derived from the Latin word for seven, Septima, and pronounced Sep-TEAM-a-tek, to emphasize team and technology. From the beginning, Septimatech valued innovative technology and a collaborative approach with customers to solve their production challenges.  “We are extremely proud that many of our customers today have been with us since the beginning,” says Sharron Gilbert, Septimatech CEO. “Our team continuously works in partnership with our customers to solve their toughest production challenges. The most important measure of our solution innovations is the positive impact they make on our customers’ businesses and the value they bring to their production capabilities.” Over the past 30 years, Septimatech has built a reputation as a customer satisfaction leader for helping companies get the most efficiency from their packaging machines and lines. It pioneered numerous innovations in adjustable guide rails, quick change parts, cap and label handling, feed screws and feed screw drives and 5S change part storage carts for wide range of production environments. Septimatech has designed and built change parts for more than 2,700 machine models and installed adjustable changeover and container handling solutions on hundreds of lines worldwide, packaging millions of products a day.  “Packaging is an ever changing and time-sensitive business. While certain things, such as the need for quality, added value, speed and attentive service have remained constant; technology, materials, customer products, packaging design, markets and expectations have evolved significantly,” says Quinn Martin, OEM/International Sales Manager. “Staying at the forefront of service and innovation requires the ability to adapt and maintain our curiosity and passion for applying technology to solve any customer challenge. The ability to work on over 2700 different models of equipment across most vertical markets creates an innovative incubator of solutions where we can apply a standard, repeatable changeover experience. This saves our customers time, money, maximizes labor utilization and product output, and minimizes downtime. The ROI is significant. We’ve been fortunate to grow with our customers over the years because we continually look for solutions to increase equipment flexibility, without the expense of buying new equipment especially as packaging materials, labor constraints, machine sophistication, and output complexity evolves”. As the company looks forward to building on its legacy of excellence, Gilbert expresses her heartfelt gratitude to Septimatech’s customers, employees, and partners for their collaborative partnership and support. "We owe our success to the hard work and dedication of our team and the trust of our customers. It has been an amazing journey, and we look forward to continuing to deliver solutions that create a competitive advantage for our customers.”  