Shawn Kassner, who oversees Kaycha Labs' facility in Albany, speaks at a NY Cannabis Insider event in Syracuse on Oct. 21. When New York’s Cannabis Control Board issued a laboratory permit to Kaycha Labs last month, it expanded the company’s footprint, which includes eight other states. “We see New York as being an important part of Kaycha’s portfolio,” said Shawn Kassner, lab director of Kaycha’s Albany facility. “New York is going to be a very large market” Now that Kaycha has received state approval for both research and development testing, as well as compliance testing for cannabis companies in the Empire State, it’s looking to boost hiring at its 8,200-square-foot laboratory, and gain accreditations to expand its testing offerings. Co-founders James Horvath and Chris Martinez launched Kaycha Group in 2016 as a medical cannabis testing company. The following year, the company opened its first testing lab: a 6,000-square-foot facility in Davie, Florida, which tested weed for that state’s medical program, Kassner said. Kaycha followed that up by opening a 4,000-square-foot hemp testing facility in Gainesville in 2018, and a 5,000-square-foot cannabis testing lab in Denver in 2019. In addition to Florida and Colorado, Kaycha currently operates in Arizona, California, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon and Tennessee (where they run a hemp testing laboratory, since Tennessee doesn’t permit medical or adult-use cannabis.) When Kaycha hired Kassner to oversee the Albany lab about a year ago, the space contained little more than tables – but after a buildout that cost between $2.5 and $3 million, it’s now a fully functional, state-of-the-art weed testing facility, he said. “Within 54 weeks of me starting here, and bringing the team in … we’ve been able to go from a room full of tables to a room full of fully accredited ISO scope and a partial accreditation for New York,” Kassner said. State regulators have greenlit Kaycha to test medical and adult-use cannabis for potency, cannabinoids, moisture content, water activity and foreign materials, Kassner said. The company would like to expand its accreditations so that it can also test for metals, microbiology, pesticides and solvents, he added. As Kaycha looks toward growing the kinds of tests they may offer, the company is also trying to increase its headcount. Staff at the Albany lab stands at 10 people right now, but Kaycha is actively hiring for positions including two chemists, two analysts, a microbiologist and lab technician, Kassner said. Subscribe to the NY Cannabis Insider newsletter Kassner didn’t disclose Kaycha’s annual revenue to NY Cannabis Insider, and he wasn’t sure about the company’s growth projections associated with adding New York to its roster of states. However, the state’s high population and likely tight regulations suggest testing labs like Kaycha will do well in the state. Kassner said he thinks regulators are wise to create a state reference laboratory, and that requiring third-party firms – as opposed to cultivators or labs – to gather samples for testing is good policy that shows New York is learning from problems that have arisen in other states. However, he said he does wish the Office of Cannabis Management would lower the barriers of entry for people who want to work in cannabis lab testing. Under current emergency testing regulations, OCM requires lab technicians to have at least two years’ college or university studies and one year experience working in a laboratory. “That’s very difficult to do in a very small market like we have now,” Kassner said. “There are five or six labs that are currently accredited, and we’re all trying to vie for the same very limited pool of individuals.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices