NCAAF CORAL GABLES, Fla. — Mario Cristobal made it a priority to find Tyler Van Dyke better pass protection and put him in an offense that better suited his talent. The fruits of Cristobal’s efforts were in full view during last Saturday’s win over Texas A&M when Van Dyke threw a career-high five touchdown passes and had a clean pocket to work with all afternoon. Van Dyke had time to throw but also got rid of the ball quickly to receivers in space who were able to create 246 yards after the catch. Advertisement “He had a clear command of where everybody was,” offensive coordinator Shannon Dawson said Monday of the 2021 ACC rookie of the year. “His timing, the ball going to the right guy, it just felt like he was in complete control of everything.” Dawson’s Air Raid offense through two games has created more big plays and more points than it did last year under Josh Gattis, when Miami averaged 23.6 points and 3.5 plays of 20-plus yards per game. This year under Dawson, the Canes are averaging 43 points and 6.5 plays of 20-plus yards. The Canes did it on the ground with 250 rushing yards in the 38-3 win over Miami (Ohio) and through the air last Saturday. It’s been only two games, but Van Dyke’s average release time on pass attempts is 2.29 seconds, down from 2.42 in 2022, according to Pro Football Focus. The amount of time it’s taken Van Dyke to be sacked, meanwhile, is up from the second-fastest time in the ACC (2.91 seconds) last season to the third-longest average (5.25 seconds) in the league this year (on three sacks). Not only is Van Dyke feeling the heat less on dropbacks (20.4 percent) compared to last year (27.9), but Miami’s first two opponents also have opted to blitz him less this year (25.9 percent) than they did a year ago (36.6) when they had better success getting to him. “Tyler didn’t get touched,” Dawson said. “He sat back there and had all day unimpeded. It was awesome to watch those guys protect.” As for yards after the catch, Miami’s slot and outside receivers are nearly halfway to last year’s production after just two games. Xavier Restrepo | #ItsAllAboutTheU® pic.twitter.com/yzDsaGijhs — GO ‘CANES! (@83_87_89_91_01) September 12, 2023  In 2022, receivers Brashard Smith (200), Colbie Young (112), Xavier Restrepo (100), Jacolby George (93), Frank Ladson Jr. (85), Michael Redding (67), Romello Brinson (40), Key’Shawn Smith (35) and Isaiah Horton (1) combined for 733 yards after the catch in 12 games. This year, through two games, Miami’s slot and outside receivers — Restrepo (121), Young (107), George (96), Horton (23), Ray Ray Joseph (5), Smith (4) and Tyler Harrell (2) — have 358 yards after the catch. Advertisement An area of concern entering the season was cornerback play, considering Miami lost both starters to the NFL (Tyrique Stevenson is a starter for the Chicago Bears, and DJ Ivey made the Cincinnati Bengals’ 53-man roster). But so far, starters Daryl Porter Jr. (2022 West Virginia transfer) and Jaden Davis (2023 Oklahoma transfer) have played well in pass coverage. Jaden Davis | #ItsAllAboutTheU® pic.twitter.com/hTkYPrtU6i — GO ‘CANES! (@83_87_89_91_01) September 10, 2023  Porter ranks sixth among ACC starting cornerbacks, having allowed only three completions for 21 yards on eight targets. Davis has allowed six catches for 87 yards on nine targets. Neither has given up a touchdown. Davis has thrived in run support. “In this scheme, everybody does everything,” Davis said. “We’ve got corners blitzing. We’ve got safeties blitzing. We’ve got backers blitzing. Everything is on the table. That’s why I love this scheme. And that’s the reason I’m here: to be able to show that I can do all those things. It’s fun to be able to stick your head in there and feel like a big boy for once.” Cristobal made a conscious effort to turn over the roster following the 2022 season. Among the 27 players no longer on the team (who still have eligibility), eight have made starts at their new homes and four have become full-time starters: left tackle John Campbell (Tennessee) and defensive linemen Elijah Roberts (SMU), Allan Haye Jr. (Temple) and Jordan Miller (SMU). Campbell has graded out well in wins over Virginia and Austin Peay, allowing only one pressure in 58 snaps. Roberts had two sacks for SMU in its season-opening win over Louisiana Tech. Haye, who played only 37 snaps in two seasons with the Hurricanes, has played 104 snaps for Temple through two games. The Hurricanes play at Temple on Sept. 23. Advertisement Running back Jaylan Knighton, one of six former Hurricanes who ended up at SMU with former Miami offensive coordinator Rhett Lashlee, started the opener for the Mustangs before coming off the bench in Week 2 in a 28-11 loss to Oklahoma. Knighton, who fumbled eight times in his career with Miami, fumbled against the Sooners. He’s averaging 4.3 yards on 33 attempts with only 1.48 yards after contact. Cornerback Al Blades Jr. started Duke’s upset of Clemson in Week 1 and played 75 snaps, but he came off the bench in a win over Lafayette. Miami doesn’t face Duke in the regular season. Cornerback Isaiah Dunson started Baylor’s season-opening upset loss to Texas State but played only 19 snaps off the bench in the Bears’ loss to Utah last weekend. Tight end Kahlil Brantley, who played 92 snaps and had five catches for 28 yards and a touchdown in two seasons with the Hurricanes, started the opener for FAU and played 28 snaps but didn’t catch a pass. He didn’t play in FAU’s second game. Neither Romello Brinson nor Key’Shawn Smith is starting for SMU at receiver. Brinson has three catches for 53 yards, and Smith has three catches for 57 yards. Edge rusher Thomas Davis, who played only seven snaps with the Canes, has come off the bench for 45 snaps in his first two games at Appalachian State. He has produced four tackles and two pressures. Linebacker Avery Huff, who played 51 defensive snaps in four years with the Hurricanes, recorded his first career sack for FIU in a win over North Texas last weekend. Huff has seven pressures on 22 pass-rushing snaps thus far. Former safety/linebacker Gilbert Frierson, who started 15 games in his time at Miami, has played 18 snaps off the bench at Louisville through two games. Defensive end Jabari Ishmael, who played 14 snaps total at Miami, has played only two snaps at Marshall. Advertisement Running back Thaddius Franklin Jr., now at Louisiana-Monroe, scored on a 1-yard touchdown run against Lamar in his only touch of the season in Week 2. Safety Jalen Harrell, who played only 21 snaps at Miami, has played 19 off the bench for UMass and has one tackle. Safety Keshawn Washington has tallied five tackles in three games at Garden City (Kan.) Community College. Cornerback Chris Graves has played only one snap so far at Ole Miss. A few ex-Canes haven’t played yet at all. Quarterback Jake Garcia is listed as the third-team quarterback at Missouri. Jakai Clark, who started 42 games at Miami (mostly at center), was listed as the backup right guard at SMU on the team’s initial depth chart. He has yet to play a snap. Safety Avantae Williams has not played a snap at Maryland even though he has been healthy. (Photo of Tyler Van Dyke: Samuel Lewis / Icon Sportswire via Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Manny Navarro  has been with The Athletic since September 2018 and covers Miami and recruiting. He's also the host of the "Wide Right" podcast. Manny's career started at The Miami Herald in October 1995 when he was a high school senior. He covered the Hurricanes, Heat, Marlins and high school sports for 23 years at the paper. He makes occasional appearances on WSVN's Sports Xtra on Sunday nights and is on the "Big O Show" with Orlando Alzugaray at 12:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Fridays. Follow Manny on Twitter @Manny_Navarro