MEMPHIS, Tenn. — A family is fighting for justice after their son was killed outside a Memphis courtroom, allegedly by another inmate who was already being held in jail on multiple charges.  Inmate stabbed to death at 201 Poplar: SCSO  Friday, WREG went to the Shelby County Sheriff’s Office hoping to get answers. We were told the Sheriff is out of town, one day after investigators say 21-year-old Donnie Clay allegedly stabbed 25-year-old Deion Byrd to death near a courtroom. Investigators say Clay stabbed Byrd in the neck with the metal shank after Byrd spit in his face and accused him of breaking into his home.  Man charged in stabbing death of inmate at 201 Poplar  Now, Byrd’s family is pushing for justice, wondering how an inmate was able to get a shank into what’s supposed to be a secure holding area. Jonathan Irvin was with the SCSO for 27 years as a deputy jailer and knows all the security measures that are supposed to keep everyone safe. “I think it was negligent, pure negligence,” Irvin said. “We found guns on inmates, money on inmates, and you can’t find a shank?”  ‘This is unheard of to me’: Family grieves after inmate fatally stabbed at 201 Poplar  This month, WREG requested information on the number of inmate deaths from last January to now. Fourteen inmates have died since 2022. Byrd’s father Marcus is directly impacted by those numbers. “We still need to try to exercise some type of safety. For these people incarcerated, if we don’t it’s going to keep happening,” he said. Clay is now expected back in court on Monday on the new murder charge. Byrd’s family has started a GoFundMe to help pay for his funeral expenses.   For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to WREG.com.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.