The Portland Timbers face St. Louis City SC in an MLS match at Providence Park in Portland, Oregon on Saturday, March 11, 2023.Sean Meagher/The Oregonian The shorthanded Portland Timbers come into Saturday’s road match at Atlanta United knowing it will be an uphill battle. Eight players are out due to injury or excused absence, including top-dollar midfield signee Evander. The Oregonian/OregonLive has Three Points to watch for Portland vs. Atlanta: 1. OKAY, TIMBERS, NOW LET’S GET IN FORMATION With Evander, Felipe Mora, Sebastian Blanco, David Ayala, Dairon Asprilla, Yimmi Chará and Cristhian Paredes all sidelined with various injuries and Eric Miller out due to an excused absence, how the Timbers (1-2-0, 3 points) line up against Atlanta (2-0-1, 7 points) remains a question. Will coach Giovanni Savarese stick with a 3-5-2 look, starting all three center backs and allowing outside backs Juan Mosquera and Claudio Bravo to play higher? Or will he return to a 4-2-3-1, putting typical winger Santiago Moreno in more of an attacking midfield role in Evander’s place? Given the lack of personnel and Moreno’s comfortability on the wing, a 3-5-2 seems more likely. But that could always change mid-game if the attack comes up stale. 2. CASH IN … WHEN YOU CAN Opportunities to score may be far and few between on Saturday against one of the top teams in MLS, adding to the pressure for Portland to finish its chances at a better clip than it has so far. If Nathan Fogaça gets the start again at striker, the Timbers need him to be more dynamic and put the ball in the net. It’s on the rest of the squad to step up and finish when potentially rare opportunities present themselves, too. Atlanta has scored the most goals in the Eastern Conference thus far with six, so Portland will likely need to score multiple goals if it wants to escape the road trip with a point or more. It can’t afford to fall behind big early, as Charlotte did in a 3-0 loss to Atlanta last week. 3. EYE ON ALMADA Thiago Almada is one of the top talents in MLS. The 21-year-old Argentine has two goals and two assists already this season, and he has the potential to thoroughly dominate the Timbers’ midfield on Saturday. Portland has defended relatively well this season despite limited personnel, but its bad moments have been really, really bad on that end. And aging club legend Diego Chará can occasionally find himself on an island out there. Few players in this league are more capable of exposing weakness in a team’s defense than Almada. Even with the other talented players around him, Portland needs to keep a keen eye on Almada at all times. And throw the kitchen sink at him. Whatever is left of it. Portland vs. Atlanta kicks off at 4:30 p.m. PT on Saturday, with a live stream available on the Apple TV app with a subscription to MLS Season Pass. -- Ryan Clarke, rclarke@oregonian.com, Twitter: @RyanTClarke If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices