For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Whether it’s just for some extra cash or for a full-time side hustle, selling stuff on apps is a great way to make money. You can download an app and be up and running in no time, and best of all, you can sell virtually anything you can think of — be it a luxury handbag, a used cell phone, sunglasses or even LEGOs. Selling stuff via an app is generally a better way to make money than through holding a yard sale or selling to a local consignment store because the world is your oyster — in other words, you have a wider audience of prospective buyers. Additionally, you can get paid quickly, as well as list a large number of items at once. Here’s a look at 8 of the best apps to sell your stuff on. Founded in 1995, eBay now reigns supreme as one of the top apps to use for selling your stuff. The mammoth online marketplace is a goldmine for sellers who specialize in the following categories, all of which are bestsellers according to eBay. Automotive Clothing, shoes and accessories Collectibles Business and industrial Home and garden Jewelry and watches Health and beauty Sporting goods If your item doesn’t fall into one of these categories, you’re better off heading to a different app. Pros Wide variety of item categories Huge audience of buyers Cons Commission and shipping fees OfferUp was founded in 2011 as a competitor to Craigslist and has become a favorite in the online marketplace space. You can sell pretty much anything you want on OfferUp, but there tends to be a big emphasis on household items like appliances and furniture. You can also find and list cars on OfferUp. Pros No listing fee Ability to sell a variety of items Cons App stresses in-person transactions If you’ve been sitting on designer handbags, clothing, shoes or accessories now is the time to open a Poshmark account and get to listing. According to Small Business Trends, sellers on Poshmark can rake in anywhere from $100 a month to $2,000 a month based on the number of active listings they have on the app. In addition to women’s fashion, the app also lets you sell home decor and beauty products, but really fashion is what it is known for so if you have anything else to sell, best head elsewhere. Pros Straightforward selling process and fee transparency Can sell high-end clothing and accessories Cons Best for high-end items and items without any flaws Like OfferUp, Facebook Marketplace is intended for those who are selling to people in their area. So this isn’t an app for those looking to cast a global or even statewide net. Launched in 2016, it’s a great place to sell big-ticket items like appliances, furniture and cars. Facebook makes money off the service by running ads. Pros Good option for selling larger items By selling to people in your area, you can avoid a shipping fee Cons No buyer protection in place Decluttr, which launched in the U.S. in 2014, specializes in reselling tech including smartphones, tablets, wearables, CDs, DVDs and games. But you can also sell books and LEGOs here as well. Decluttr takes care of the cost of shipping, which is a big plus — you just send the items to them with a prepaid shipping label they provide. Then they pay you whatever they think your items are worth. Pros Process is very simple Good customer service Cons As they set the price, you may not get what you think your item is worth Born in Japan but now fully operational in the U.S., Mercari is an online marketplace that allows users to sell everything from clothing and accessories to tech and used books. According to Reselling Revealed, items that sell best on Mercari are: Small electronics like cameras, phones, speakers, etc. Video games and gaming systems Trendy or designer clothing Purses and bags Outdoor and sporting goods If you are selling outside of these categories, it’s best to use another app.  Pros Low commission fees Highly rated Cons Limited range of popular item categories You should take extra precautions due to scammers For high-end apparel, head to Tradesy where best-selling brands include the likes of Chanel, Louis Vuitton and Gucci. If you’re selling non-designer clothing, best head to eBay. Pros Connects you to a wide audience looking for designer goods Consumers have rated Tradesy very highly Cons Only for high-end apparel Has a transfer fee for earnings Nextdoor is where neighbors go to connect — and to vent. It’s also where they go to sell things — all kinds of things. Like Facebook Marketplace and OfferUp, unload your wares for a price that you set at no fee to buyers in your area. Pros Connects you to buyers locally Easy to avoid a shipping fee Good for larger items Cons No buyer protection in place You should take extra precautions due to scammers The best app to sell your stuff on depends on what items you have to sell. Poshmark and Tradesy are best for designer apparel and accessories. Sell your old tech and DVDs on Decluttr. For almost anything else eBay is best — unless it’s a car or a heavy item, in which case you should sell locally via OfferUp or on Facebook Marketplace. Selling on apps has never been easier. When you sign up for a new app, be sure to go straight to the “How it works” sections and read all the fine print so that there are no last-minute surprises. Also be sure to be as transparent and detailed as possible when describing your items, and to take impeccable photos in good lighting. No flaw must go unnoted! How can I sell my stuff fast for money? If you need cash fast you can list your stuff on OfferUp or Facebook Marketplace with a strict "Must Go By" deadline. What app do people sell things on? People sell their stuff on a variety of apps including, but not limited to:   eBay OfferUp Poshmark Facebook Marketplace Decluttr Mercari Tradesy Nextdoor Where can I sell my stuff in 2022? You can sell your stuff in 2022, 2023 and beyond on these apps: eBay OfferUp Poshmark Facebook Marketplace Decluttr Mercari Tradesy Nextdoor What is the best app to sell women's sunglasses? The best place to sell sunglasses for women is Poshmark. What is the best app to sell men's athletic goods? The best app to sell men's sporting goods is eBay. What is the best app to sell used furniture? The best app to sell used furniture is a local listing app such as Facebook Marketplace, OfferUp or Nextdoor. Data is accurate as of Dec. 28, 2022, and is subject to change. This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: 8 Best Apps To Sell Your Stuff AOL AOL AOL AOL AOL AOL Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement