Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Kaylyn McKenna
 
    Edited By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
Updated on:  October 11, 2023 / 6:58 AM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Amazon October Prime Day, who? Walmart's Holiday Kickoff Sale is here now through Oct. 12 to kickstart your Christmas shopping season with doorbuster deals on tech, home goods and more. Skip the long shipping waits and the mall crowds. This sale is a great way to start your gift shopping early if you don't want to wait for Black Friday.    Related: How we select our products  During the deals event, Walmart is offering major discounts on top-rated products from popular brands, including Dyson, Apple, Reebok, Keurig and more. Plus, you can sign up for Walmart+ now to get fast, free shipping on all of your holiday purchases, along with special perks, including access to Paramount+. Walmart+ is normally priced at $12.95 per month, or $98 per year. A 30-day free trial is available.   Join Walmart+ today.  Ready to get a head start on your holiday shopping? Check out these hot Walmart deals right now, while they last.   The iRobot Roomba j7+ vacuum features a powerful three-stage cleaning system with iRobot's most powerful suction. The home-cleaning device uses an edge-sweeping brush to get into corners. The Roomba j7+ features dual multi-surface rubber brushes that flex to adjust to different floor types. Best of all, they don't get tangled with pet hair.    This vacuum's Imprint Smart Mapping technology allows you to control and schedule which rooms are cleaned and when. It stores multiple maps of your rooms. You can customize Keep Out Zones and Clean Zones so the vacuum knows the exact areas to avoid and clean. This vacuum has a 75-minute runtime.    The iRobot Roomba j7+ is designed with the issue of dog poop in mind. This smart vacuum includes iRobot's P.O.O.P. guarantee, or "Pet Owner Official Promise." Your Roomba j7+ is guaranteed to avoid pet waste or iRobot will replace your vacuum for free.   When it's done cleaning, the device automatically empties into its included clean base for easy dirt disposal with enclosed bags. Just empty the cleaning station once every 60 days.    Amazon is selling this vacuum for $549, but Walmart has the best price during its Holiday Kickoff sale for $399 at Walmart.   What we like about the iRobot Roomba j7+:  The design of the AirPods Pro 2 is fairly similar to the previous generation, but Apple has introduced touch control to the AirPods Pro 2 to help users more seamlessly control their AirPods. The latest Apple AirPods Pro 2 earbuds offer 30 hours of listening time with the included charging case. They have an upgraded wireless chip for improved audio functionality, a new low distortion driver for clearer audio and improved active noise cancellation.    The Apple AirPods Pro 2 provide truly custom sound: You can use your iPhone's camera to analyze your unique ear anatomy and find the perfect audio settings for you.  Users will also get a new extra-small tip with their AirPods. The case did get a notable design upgrade with a new lanyard loop and a built-in speaker to help track the location of your AirPods case.    You're paying for the better ergonomics here, improved sound, and what you'll definitely end up agreeing is a premium experience. There's certainly a lot to love about the Apple AirPods Pro 2, especially when they're on sale at Walmart for just $189. Why we like the Apple AirPods Pro 2: The ninth generation Apple iPad can be paired with peripherals like the Apple Magic Keyboard to make a complete mobile workstation. It boasts a great-looking 10.2-inch Retina display with Apple's powerful A13 Bionic chip, as well as 64GB of storage. It also includes a 12MP front camera and an 8MP back camera, Touch ID for easier logins and a sleek aluminum back.    Thanks to its all-day battery life, you can stave off charging until later with regular usage. It's certainly worth the money at this low of an asking price, and still close enough to the next model up that it can handle most applications and games.    Normally priced at $329 at the Apple Store, you can get it for $249 at Walmart right now.   Why we like the Apple iPad (ninth generation):  If you're running out of counter space in your kitchen, adding a new appliance can be difficult. But you probably won't have that problem with the Keurig K-Mini Plus-- this single-serve pod coffee maker measures just 4.5 inches wide, 12.1 inches tall and 11.3 inches deep. The compact Keurig comes with a small one-cup water reservoir and a removable drip tray that can accommodate travel mugs up to 7 inches tall. With the Keurig K-Mini Plus, you can brew a 6- to 12-ounce cup of coffee in minutes.    "The Keurig K-Mini Single Serve Coffee Maker has quickly become my go-to appliance for a quick and delicious cup of coffee," one Amazon reviewer shares. "Its compact size fits perfectly in my kitchen, saving valuable counter space. Brewing is a breeze with just a simple touch, and the 6- to 12-ounce brew sizes allow me to customize my coffee to the perfect strength."   Snag one for just $50 now during the Walmart Holiday Kickoff sale (regularly $109).    What we like about the Keurig K-Mini:  Looking to get in better shape for the holidays, or get a head start on your New Year's resolution? Walmart is offering quite the deal on FitRx SmartBell adjustable dumbbell and barbell weight set. Originally $249, you can get the set for just $149 right now during the Walmart Holiday Kickoff sale.    The 5-star-rated FitRx SmartBell adjustable dumbbell and barbell set can be adjusted up to 100 pounds with the twenty included weight plates. An anti-slip handle and safety lock keep plates in place during your workout. Comes with a convenient storage case.   "I love this weight set for my small apartment," says one Walmart reviewer. "It's tough to get a good workout in a tiny space, so I appreciate the compactness of this set. It's convenient and easy to switch between barbell and dumbbell exercises. Everything stores nicely in the case, which even has wheels!"   What we like about the FitRx 2-in-1 SmartBell Gym:  If you're looking for the perfect gift for the Barbie fan in your life, check out this deal on the Mega Barbie The Movie Dreamhouse. This 1,795-piece set features the Dreamhouse shown in 'The Barbie Movie' complete with Barbie and Ken dolls.   "The Mega Barbie Dreamhouse is definitely mega," says one Walmart reviewer. "We built it as a family project as it has 1,795 bricks to assemble. Once we got it built our 9-year-old grand daughter was so excited to get to play with it. The house had so many little intricate details to it with all the little accessories."   What we like about the Mega Barbie The Movie Dreamhouse:  The second-generation Apple AirPods may not be the latest model, but they're still one of the most sought-after earbuds on the market. Retailing for $129 at Apple, Walmart currently has them listed for $89.     These are some of the most versatile earbuds you can buy if you're a regular iOS user. They also happen to be iconic in the way that only Apple products are. You know right away when someone is using an Apple device, and they offer that status symbol we've come to expect.    But beyond that, these are great earbuds that are perfect for tossing in your bag and heading out into the world. They just connect when you need them. There's no frustrating need to pair them.     These earbuds boast more than 24 hours of total listening time with the wireless charging case, a fool-proof one-tap setup for Apple device owners and a low-latency wireless connection for full immersion when consuming movies and music.    If you're in need of an everyday set of earbuds that look and feel premium, these are a great and affordable option.     Why we like the Apple AirPods (2nd Generation):  Good news, Pioneer Woman fans. Walmart just dropped another huge rollback on a customer-loved Pioneer Woman cookware set. The 24-piece Frontier Speckle cookware set is just $109 at Walmart right now. It typically retails for $129.    The 24-piece set has everything you need to cook just about anything in the kitchen. The set includes a 1-quart saucepan, a 2.5-quart saucepan with lid, a 5.5-quart dutch oven with lid, a 9.5-inch fry pan, a 12-inch skillet, a 10-inch skillet, four measuring bowls, four measuring spoons, an 8-inch cast iron skillet, two mini au gratins, two silicone sleeves, a nylon spatula and an acacia wood turner and spoon. The must-have set is made with quick-heating aluminum and features a nonstick coating for easy cleaning.    "This Pioneer Woman 24-piece cookware set is simply gorgeous," a Walmart customer says. "Obviously, functionality is every bit as important as beauty in the kitchen -- and this cookware set has that in spades. Each piece feels sturdy and extremely well made."   Choose from three colors.   Why we like The Pioneer Woman 24-piece Frontier Speckle cookware set:  This 4.5-star-rated baby monitor and indoor camera offers 1080p video quality and two-way audio. It features 360-degree tracking for a clear view of the whole room. Right now you can get this camera on sale for only $20 at Walmart.    "This monitor was a game-changer for us. The video quality is crystal clear during the day, and the night vision works like a charm," a Walmart customer says. "The two-way audio feature lets us soothe our baby from another room. The temperature sensor is a handy bonus."   Why we like the Febfoxes baby monitor:   Looking to revamp your outdoor sanctuary? Head on over to the Walmart website. We found a really fantastic deal on a top-rated rattan patio set under $250. CBS Essentials readers are going crazy for it: It's our bestselling patio deal of 2023 by far.    This 4.6-star rated patio set by Costway that includes two single chairs with cushions (23.5'' x 25'' x 31''), a loveseat with cushion (43.5'' x 25''x 31'') and a tempered glass-top coffee table (35'' x 18'' x 17.5''). The washable cushions are available four colors: turquoise, red, navy and black. Price varies by color.   Says one Walmart reviewer: "This patio furniture looks great and is very comfortable. All the pieces and hardware were clearly marked and the assembly instructions were easy to follow. Very well satisfied."    Why we like the Rattan patio set:  The sales event is going on now, with deals running through Thursday, Oct. 12. This gives you plenty of time to shop before, during and after the Amazon Prime Big Deal Days sale.    The shopping experts at CBS Essentials will be comparing prices at both retailers to help you find the best deals across the two major sales events, so be sure to check back here for the hottest deals on toys, kitchen gadgets, smart TVs, Christmas gift ideas and so much more.   In previous years, Walmart has offered early access and special savings to Walmart+ members. While members won't be getting any special access this time around, becoming a member can give you a better shopping experience with fast, free shipping and delivery. You can also score savings on gas and get access to Paramount+ with your membership. Plus, Walmart+ members are expected to gain early access to the retailer's Black Friday sale later this year.   Kaylyn McKenna is an expert on deals, travel, luggage, home and more for CBS Essentials. When she's not scouring the internet for the best deals on new luggage or robot vacuums, she spends time with her goldendoodle, Harley, 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Hillary Clinton brought delegates to their feet highlighting "we are writing a new chapter in American history."
         
          Hillary Clinton spoke at the first night of the Democratic National Convention.
         
          President Biden and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are addressing the convention on its first night.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          First daughter Ashley Biden spoke lovingly about her father, President Biden, as she delivered remarks on the opening night of the Democratic National Convention. See her full address.
         
          First lady Jill Biden delivered heartfelt remarks about her husband, President Biden, while addressing the Democratic National Convention on Monday. See the first lady's full speech.
         
          Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock called Donald Trump a plague on the American conscious while speaking about Jan. 6 on the opening night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention. See Warnock's full address.
         
          Kentucky abortion access advocate Hadley Duvall and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear offered scathing criticisms of Donald Trump and the Republican Party on the issue of abortion rights while addressing the Democratic National Convention Monday night. See Duvall and Beshear's full remarks.
         
          Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett briefly choked up while giving an emotional address at the Democratic National Convention as she recounted meeting Vice President Kamala Harris for the first time. Crockett also compared the backgrounds of Harris and former President Donald Trump.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.