
                
                    
                        Let Food Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Just a few years ago, St. Louis-based Post was among the most active investors in the M&A category. It participated in funding rounds from companies such as plant-based meat startup Hungry Planet and PeaTos, the cheeky challenger to Frito-Lay that makes pea-based versions of Cheetos and Funyuns. It also snapped up Almark Foods, a provider of hard-cooked and deviled egg products, and Peter Pan peanut butter from Conagra Brands. Recently, it has seen its M&A pace slow considerably. Still, it stands to reason that with a history of being aggressive on investing in young startups and buying brands, Vitale is keeping a close watch on companies looking for cash or eager to divest a brand they no longer want to keep in their portfolio. With some younger businesses struggling to raise cash, or doing so at lower multiples than just a few months ago, Post and other CPGs are undoubtedly keeping a lookout for opportunistic buys. A company feeling the pressure of higher interest rates hindering its ability to grow could find it easier and more economical to grab a lifeline from a bigger food maker rather than flounder on its own. After years of multi-billion dollar deals like Conagra buying Pinnacle for nearly $11 billion or Campbell Soup acquiring snack maker Snyder’s Lance for just under $5 billion, CPGs have recently been focusing on single brands that increase their presence in a particular category. During the summer, Mondelēz International bought Clif Bar, a move that further expanded its fast-growing snacking portfolio while giving it a major presence in the high-growth bar business. While Post has made an effort to boost its presence in plant based, the fact that the publicly traded company is operated much like a private equity firm under Vitale’s oversight likely means it wants to find brands it can grow, regardless of where they are situated in the food space.  Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The modification, which includes chocolate chips with higher cacao and Madagascar vanilla extract content, is the biggest update for the $1 billion brand in nearly a decade. Vital Pursuit is the first major U.S. brand to be launched by the food giant in nearly three decades. The line’s frozen pizza, sandwiches and bowls will reach stores by October. Subscribe to Food Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The modification, which includes chocolate chips with higher cacao and Madagascar vanilla extract content, is the biggest update for the $1 billion brand in nearly a decade. Vital Pursuit is the first major U.S. brand to be launched by the food giant in nearly three decades. The line’s frozen pizza, sandwiches and bowls will reach stores by October. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines