Curated power industry news from thousands of top sources. Upgrade your news experience today!click for more info News ALLENTOWN, Pa. (Oct. 19, 2023) - PPL Electric Utilities announced today that its Grid of the Future infrastructure project application has been selected by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to potentially receive up to $49.5 million in federal funding through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL). PPL Electric's project was selected through the nationally competitive Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships (GRIP) program. The Company's Grid of the Future project, which represents $99 million in planned investments, includes a combination of hardware and software components that work seamlessly together to deliver grid flexibility to the transmission and distribution systems and provide significant customer benefits, including increased reliability and resiliency while advancing an affordable clean energy transition. Over the next several months, PPL Electric will work with the DOE Grid Deployment Office on the terms of its plan to secure the Pending award negotiations and finalization with the DOE, federal grants. "The Grid of the Future project builds on over a decade of success in self-healing smart grid innovation," said President of PPL Electric Utilities Christine Martin. "This funding will allow us to accommodate a rapidly evolving electric grid balancing strong resiliency, low customer costs, and high reliability, all while embracing two-way power flow from distributed energy resources." PPL Electric's Grid of the Future project recommended by the DOE will: "Across PPL, we're focused on creating utilities of the future that are agile, innovative and technology-enabled to drive additional value for customers and shareowners and support a reliable, affordable clean energy transition," said PPL President and Chief Executive Officer Vincent Sorgi. "As we execute our vision, we're pleased to take advantage of this unique funding opportunity to create savings for our customers and strengthen grid resiliency." About the GRIP Program The funds are part of the Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships (GRIP) Program, which seeks to enhance grid flexibility and improve the resilience of the power system against growing threats of extreme weather and climate change. Funded through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and administered by DOE's Grid Deployment Office, the GRIP program leverages federal and private investments to ensure that communities across the nation have a reliable grid that's prepared for extreme weather while also delivering affordable, clean energy and creating robust local opportunities for economic investment and jobs. About PPL Electric Utilities PPL Electric Utilities delivers safe, reliable and affordable electricity to approximately 1.5 million homes and businesses in easteand central Pennsylvania. It regularly ranks among the country's best utility companies for reliability and customer satisfaction. PPL Electric Utilities is a major employer and an active supporter of the communities it serves. It is a part of the PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL) family of companies. Visit pplelectric.com or connect on social media via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for energy efficiency tips, bill help information, guidance on shopping for an electricity supplier, storm updates and more. # # # Attachments Disclaimer PPL Corporation published this content on 19 October 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public, unedited and unaltered, on 19 October 2023 14:19:49 UTC. No discussions yet. Start a discussion below. The Energy Central Power Industry Network® is based on one core idea - power industry professionals helping each other and advancing the industry by sharing and learning from each other. If you have an experience or insight to share or have learned something from a conference or seminar, your peers and colleagues on Energy Central want to hear about it. It's also easy to share a link to an article you've liked or an industry resource that you think would be helpful. Start a Post »                  Learn more about posting on Energy Central » Your access to Member Features is limited. Subscribe today to the Daily Power Industry Newsletter for the most up-to-date and relevant utility industry news. Electrical Distribution Planner (Electrical Engineer III)
			City of Fort Collins
			Fort Collins, Colorado GIS Industry Solutions Manager - Renewable Energy
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Industry Solutions Specialist, Energy Utilities
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California GIS Industry Solutions Manager, Gas & Pipeline
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Energy & Environmental Advisor
			City of Rochester
			Rochester, Minnesota Substation Electrical Communications Specialist
			City of Fort Collins - Light & Power
			Fort Collins, Colorado Analyst - Senior Analyst, Utility Marketing and CX
			E Source
			Denver, Colorado Chief Executive Officer 
			Central Valley Electric Cooperative 
			Artesia, New Mexico Vice President of Engineering
			Long Island Power Authority
			Uniondale, New York Chief Executive Officer
			Kansas Electric Power Cooperative
			Topeka, Kansas President and Chief Executive Officer
			NOVEC
			Manassas, Virginia Engineering Associate II
			Lower Colorado River Authority
			La Grange, Texas Executive Director
			Redwood Coast Energy Authority
			Humboldt County, California Director, Division of Revenue & Rates
			New Jersey Board of Public Utilities
			Trenton, New Jersey Transmission Line Engineer: Operations and Maintenance (Civil/Structural)
			LCRA
			Austin, Texas Power Management Control Engineer
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Assistant General Manager for the Electric & Gas Utility
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Senior Engineer - Grid Infrastructure
			North Carolina Electric Cooperatives
			Raleigh, North Carolina Manager - Cybersecurity and Energy Management System
			Brazos Electric Cooperative
			Waco, Texas Power Plant Control Room Operator (Gas/Coal)
			Lower Colorado River Authority (LCRA)
			La Grange, Texas Chief Executive Officer
			Duck River EMC
			Shelbyville, Tennessee 