
Applied BioCode announced today that Beth Laderman has been appointed as their new Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) signaling a significant step in the company's expansion. With 25 years of experience in the medical diagnostic field, Dr. Laderman brings expertise from her previous roles at HYCOR Biomedical and Biomerica Inc. Her appointment is set to drive Applied BioCode's focus on expanding its MDx-3000 platform and exploring new applications for its patented barcoded magnetic beads (BMBs). Dr. Laderman joins as Applied BioCode continues to expand its US commercial footprint and explores US & global expansion and new opportunities for their technology. With its current portfolio of PCR-based, multiplex molecular diagnostic assays in the respiratory and gastrointestinal markets, along with the new BioCode Fungal Panel RUO approval, the company remains steadfast in its mission in having R&D fully support the commercial enterprise by delivering transformative solutions for high-throughput diagnostics.

 
"I'm excited to be joining Applied BioCode and for the opportunity to support its mission to bring comprehensive, affordable, high throughput multiplex testing to all patients," said Beth Laderman, incoming chief science officer for Applied BioCode. "I'm looking forward to using my passion for patients and broad experience to expand upon Applied BioCode's innovative platform and technology."

 
"I'm excited to welcome Beth to the leadership team as we sharpen our focus on expanding our MDx-3000 platform content and explore other applications for our patented barcoded magnetic beads (BMBs)," said Chris Bernard, chief executive officer of Applied BioCode. "Beth is a talented and innovative leader who has provided vision and led impactful change throughout her career. Her deep understanding of customer needs, the diagnostic market and the FDA process make her the perfect choice to help guide the next phases of our R&D journey."

 
Dr. Laderman's appointment as CSO of Applied BioCode marks an exciting chapter in the company's journey to revolutionize diagnostics and life sciences. Her deep knowledge, leadership skills, and dedication to innovation are expected to drive the company's research and development initiatives to new heights.

 
To learn more about the Applied BioCode team and offerings, visit: https://www.apbiocode.com/products/
 
About Applied BioCode:

 
Applied BioCode is an IVD manufacturer that designs, develops, and commercializes multiplex testing products. The company has combined "digital barcodes" with immuno- and molecular chemistry to create a new, bio-inspired Barcoded Magnetic Beads (BMB) technology. The micro BMBs, about the diameter of a human hair, are tagged with immunochemistry or molecular probes, allowing the digital barcodes to be easily scanned and accurately identified up to 4,096 barcodes with no ambiguity for biological targets. The company has FDA 510K clearances for their 17-plex Respiratory Pathogen Panel (RPP) and 17-plex Gastrointestinal Pathogen Panel (GPP) based on their BioCode® MDx-3000 automated system. The GPP and RPP are CE-Marked for use in European countries conforming to CE-Mark regulations. Applied BioCode, Inc. has also been granted an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. FDA for its BioCode® SARS-CoV-2 Flu Plus Assay ?, BioCode® SARS-CoV-2 Assay*, and an additional EUA for Pooled COVID-19 Testing*. Applied BioCode also partners with a variety of diagnostic companies with applications that include infectious disease, autoimmune disease, allergy, gut microbiome, and veterinary markets.

 
? This product has not been FDA cleared or approved but has been authorized for emergency use by FDA under an EUA for use by authorized laboratories. This product has been authorized only for the detection and differentiation of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2, Influenza A (with H1 pdm09, H1 seasonal, H3 subtypes), Influenza B, and/or Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), not for any other viruses or pathogens. The emergency use of this product is only authorized for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of in vitro diagnostics for detection and/or diagnosis of COVID-19 under Section 564(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb3(b)(1), unless the declaration is terminated or authorization is revoked sooner.

 
* This test has not been FDA cleared or approved. This test has been authorized by FDA under an EUA for use by authorized laboratories. This test has been authorized only for the detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2, not for any other viruses or pathogens. This test is only authorized for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of in vitro diagnostics for detection and/or diagnosis of COVID-19 under Section 564(b)(1) of the Act, 21. U.S.C. § 360bbb3(b)(1), unless the authorization is terminated or revoked sooner.

