Fecon LLC,  a leading global manufacturer of heavy-duty site preparation attachments and  forestry accessories, debuted the FMX28 Bull Hog compact excavator mulcher  attachment at Conexpo in Las Vegas. Capable of mulching overgrowth, underbrush  and small trees, the FMX28 offers a versatile solution for clearing property lines,  pastureland, real estate lots, ditches, trails, fencerows, invasive species,  and more. Paired with 3.5- to 8-ton excavators, the compact package makes it  easier to access traditionally difficult-to-reach places with precision —  making it a fit for owner-operators, rental centers and right-of-way  maintenance. The excavator-mounted FMX28 allows for surgical precision in vegetation management,  enabling the removal of a single tree in a group or even specific branches that  need to be trimmed back from obstructions. The FMX28  features a design purpose-built and optimized for standard flow excavators that  are 3.5- to 5-tons and can operate with as little as 12 gpm, ensuring performance  in demanding site clearing and mulching applications. With an overall width of  40 inches and a working width of 28 inches, the attachment mounts on excavators  up to 8 tons, allowing a narrow mulching cut for precision vegetation removal.  A variable displacement hydraulic motor optimizes rotor speed and torque for  maximum production in small or larger materials. “We  are thrilled to showcase the FMX28 compact excavator mulching attachment for  the first time at CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2023,” said Mark Middendorf, Fecon’s executive  vice president of sales. “Our portfolio of world-class forestry attachments are  specifically designed to be purpose-built with the versatility and durability  customers can count on to tackle virtually any site-clearing task with ease.” The  mulching head features 14 reversible knife tools on a bite-limiting split ring  rotor. The rotor design protects the carrier and provides ease of use for even  inexperienced operators by virtually eliminating the possibility of overloading  the attachment. The fixed knife design ensures a consistently small chip size  and effective management of all vegetation from trees up to five inches in  diameter. The reversible Cubit knives provide 70 to 100 hours per edge which  extends the total life of the tool to 140 to 200 hours per edge. The reversible  Cubit knives provide 70 to 100 hours of wear per edge for maximum tool life. Fecon  also offers a Cubit carbide tool option for applications that require high  levels of ground clearing, especially in rocky soils. The attachment’s unique  rear throat design narrows as the material passes, trapping oversized pieces of  debris in the blade area to ensure proper and uniform chip size and controlled  material disbursement.   A  video demonstration of the FMX28 is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WG0d5P6wIRk&t=1s.  For  more information, visit www.fecon.com.