   MARTIN, Tenn. – Applications are now being accepted for the University of Tennessee at Martin WestStar Leadership Program’s class of 2024.  The WestStar program is the largest and oldest regional leadership program in Tennessee, boasting 945 graduates and welcoming its 34th class.  The application deadline is Oct. 13. Anyone can apply to participate; nominations are accepted but not required. The program includes eight sessions addressing contemporary issues important to West Tennessee’s development, including agriculture, economics and public policy, transportation, education, tourism and technology.  Each session takes place over one-and-a-half days and is held across the region except for a March session in Nashville. The program begins Dec. 7 with an opening one-day retreat and ends June 18, 2024, with an evening graduation ceremony. WestStar’s mission is to “identify, encourage and equip community-minded people who want to become involved in West Tennessee’s economic success and are willing to accept leadership roles.” Participants learn leadership skills and develop strategies to help communities solve problems and maximize their potential. Participants also become part of a growing network of fellow alumni and community leaders who help shape West Tennessee’s future.  WestStar is committed to advancing the regional and global community through outreach and service. For more information or to apply, contact the WestStar Leadership Program at 731-881-7298 or visit utm.edu/weststar.   Photo: Members of the 2023 WestStar graduating class are (front row, from left) Larry Smith, financial advisor, Edward Jones, Lexington; Hannah Alexander, assistant director for marketing, UT Martin Office of University Relations, Martin; Donna Stines, philanthropy director, West Tennessee Healthcare, Jackson; Laura Suiter, director of development, University of Tennessee Foundation, UT Martin, Martin; Donnie Walton, vice president and loan officer, Commercial Bank and Trust Co., Union City; Christy Williams, branch manager and vice president, Regions Bank, McKenzie; Timothy York, senior human resources business partner, Marvin Windows and Doors of Tennessee, Ripley; (back row, from left) Dr. Kyle Barron, vice president for student services, Jackson State Community College, Jackson; Kate Bynum, assistant district attorney, 27th Judicial District Attorney General’s Office, Dresden; Clay Cunha, director of business development, ServiceMaster, Cordova; Josh Frey, sheriff, Henry County, Paris; Dr. La Sonya Hall, deputy chief administrative officer, Shelby County Government, Memphis; Dr. Versie Hamlett, superintendent, Fayette County Schools, Somerville; Marcus Heaston, workforce development coordinator, Tipton County Schools, Covington; Sam Hedge, technician, Pest Stop, Camden; Sam Hutson, president, Crove Media, Paris; James “Pete” Johnson, chair, Jackson-Madison County School Board, Jackson; Undrae Johnson, director of parks and recreation, Haywood County Government, Brownsville; Tiffany Jones, owner, E&T Contracting, LLC, Henderson; Jere Kail Jr., agent, Tennessee Farm Bureau Insurance, Dyersburg; Pamela Mabry, mayor, city of Newbern, Newbern; Melvin Martin, fire chief and Emergency Management Agency director, Savannah; Randy Moffett, territory manager, James Green and Associates, Sherwood; Tosh Newman, director, Carl Perkins Civic Center and the Jackson Baseball Stadium, Jackson; Brandon Orr, area director, USDA Rural Development, Union City; Eddie Pruett, director of schools, Gibson County Special School District, Medina; Bill Rawls, mayor, city of Brownsville, Brownsville;  and Michael Sargent, owner, State Farm, Paris.