Latest Nottingham Forest news from NottinghamshireLive as Brice Samba discusses his decision to leave the club Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters  Brice Samba says he turned down the “dream” of playing in the Premier League for Nottingham Forest.   The goalkeeper starred for Steve Cooper ’s side last season as  Forest  enjoyed play-off success. Samba was the Reds’ number one, making 43 appearances as the club earned their long-awaited promotion back to the top-flight.   However, though it was a dream come true for Forest fans,  Samba  opted for a surprise move back to France in the summer. The 28-year-old ended his three-year stay at the City Ground to sign for Lens and has opened up about his reasons behind his decision.  READ MORE:  Forest 'expecting' positive Premier League decision after Steve Cook request   READ MORE:  Forest supporters hit back at ‘rattled fans’ after Steve Cook squad request    “It surprised more than one, that’s for sure,”  he told RMC Sport . “Playing in the Premier League is a dream for certain footballers… For me, it was a choice of the heart, like I’ve often said. I felt a lot of desire from Lens, I felt they really wanted me and that’s really important for me.  “When someone absolutely wants you, I think that it’s for good reasons and I think everyone has agreed with me now.” Samba is fondly remembered for his heroics by Forest fans and has continued in a similar vein for his new club, keeping nine clean sheets in 23 games, a record only bettered in Ligue 1 by PSG’s Gigi Donnarumma (10). His performances saw the former Forest man emerge as an outside contender for France’s World Cup squad and was honest about his prospects with Les Bleus, following the international retirements of Hugo Lloris and Steve Mandanda. “If people talk about me in the media, it's because my performances are quite good. Afterwards, be sure of it, it is not myself who will do my propaganda,” he continued. “It's a dream to represent France. If I have the opportunity, it will be with a lot of joy, desire and determination. “It's true that with the retirements of Hugo Lloris and Steve Mandanda, there is room freeing up, I'm not going to play the hypocrite…After that I'm going to do my best, I'm going to give myself every weekend so the selector can call on me. I am very religious, and everything in its time and when it is time I will simply go.” READ NEXT    Guardiola slams 'horrible' decision ahead of Forest clash       Four former Forest players we can't believe are still playing in 2023       Forest player reveals surprise transfer clause amid Premier League doubts       Forest injury state of play ahead of Man City clash       The latest Nottingham Forest news in one place    