Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  The offer mentioned below for the for the Citi Premier® Card is no longer available. It's the final call for the best-ever intro bonus from one of the top travel credit cards. New Citi Premier® Card holders can currently earn 80,000 bonus ThankYou® points after spending $4,000 on purchases during the first three months after opening an account. That's the biggest sign-up bonus this card has ever offered and worth at least $800 in cash-back or gift cards and potentially over $1,400 when redeemed for travel. Citi ThankYou points are extremely flexible and transfer to 17 travel partners. This gives you the opportunity to boost the value of your points depending on how you spend them and helps make the Citi Premier card well worth the $95 annual fee. Our best selections in your inbox. Shopping recommendations that help upgrade your life, delivered weekly. Sign-up here. The Citi Premier's increased welcome bonus gives you 80,000 bonus points after spending $4,000 on purchases within the first three months from account opening. This bonus is worth at least $800 in rewards — and possibly more depending on how you use your points. That's more than what similar travel credit cards are currently offering, such as the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card and Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. This elevated offer won't last much longer, so here's what you need to know about the card and its application requirements. Citi ThankYou points are worth a minimum of one cent per point for a number of easy redemptions, including for cash back and gift cards. However, points and miles experts generally value ThankYou points closer to 1.8 cents per point because of the outsized value you can receive when you redeem them with Citi's transfer partners. In addition to the large welcome bonus, purchases made with the Citi Premier card earn ThankYou points at the following rates: The Citi Premier card also has additional benefits outside of earning loads of ThankYou points. When you book a hotel stay through thankyou.com (Citi's rewards portal), you can get $100 off a $500 stay once per year. The card also doesn't charge foreign transaction fees and grants certain World Elite Mastercard perks. Some examples of these perks include a $5 monthly Lyft credit (after taking three rides in a month) and a $5 monthly DoorDash credit through Sept. 30, 2023. The value you get for your ThankYou points depends on how you use them.  If you want the easiest way to redeem ThankYou points, you can get one cent per point in value for the following redemptions made through thankyou.com when you have a Citi Premier Card: Citi frequently runs sales for 10% off gift cards, which will net you slightly more value. But other than that, redeeming ThankYou points for cash back gives you the freedom to spend that value however you wish. Since you can get one cent per point in cash, it's best to avoid redeeming your ThankYou points directly with retailers (such as Amazon), as these shops typically offer less value for your points than what you get with cash back. For those who want to stretch their points' value, transferring your ThankYou points to a travel partner is the way to go. Here are a handful of stellar deals you can book with Citi's travel partners: These flights would typically cost hundreds or thousands of dollars, but you could book any of them with just the points you could earn from the Citi Premier's intro bonus. You aren't eligible for the Citi Premier's bonus offer if you have earned a new cardmember bonus from or closed any of the following cards during the past 24 months: The Citi Premier is a top travel credit card and it currently has the highest welcome offer we've ever seen on the card. If you're approved for the card, you can earn 80,000 bonus points after spending $4,000 on purchases in the first three months of account opening. This offering is ending soon, though, so if you're ready to boost your travel rewards, you're running out of time to apply for this deal. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.