The Premier League have announced they will pay tribute to late Brazilian striker Pele during the next round of fixtures Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters The Premier League have announced they will pay tribute to late Brazilian striker Pele in the upcoming group of fixtures this week. Pele, 82, lost his battle with cancer on December 29 2022, following a difficult few weeks in which his condition at hospital had worsened.  A statement from the league reads: "In tribute to Pele, Premier League clubs will remember his contribution to football during Matchweek 18 (Dec 30-Jan 1) by holding a minute’s applause prior to kick-offs. Players and match officials will wear black armbands." This is set to impact Arsenal's trip to Brighton on December 31 as well as Tottenham's clash at home against Aston Villa and Chelsea's away match against Nottingham Forest on January 1. It is one of just a number of tributes sent in for the late forward, who is renowned for his incredible goal scoring record. READ MORE: Petition to replay World Cup final and rob Lionel Messi of success hits 200,000 signatures Born as Edson Arantes do Nascimento, he became better known as 'Pele' and is widely considered one of the best players to have ever graced a football pitch. He, scored 77 goals in just 92 international appearances for Brazil and was part of the world-renowned teams that won three World Cups between 1958 and 1970. His domestic success saw him play for just two clubs, debuting in 1956 for boyhood team Santos. He made 636 appearances for the club prior to spending two years with New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League. Upon retirement in 1976, he had scored 655 club goals in 700 games. Among several accolades, Pele was voted World Player of the Century in 2000 and named by Time Magazine as one of the 100 Most Important People of the 20th Century. He received the first-ever FIFA Ballon d'Or Prix d'Honneur in 2014. READ NEXT: World Cup 2022 prize money: How much do the winners get paid? Lionel Messi vs Cristiano Ronaldo GOAT debate declared over by Declan Rice, Carragher and more Cristiano Ronaldo gives his own Lionel Messi GOAT debate verdict after Argentina win World Cup Neymar 'sends £26,000' to Tottenham star Richarlison to remove his face from Brazil back tattoo How much are World Cup winners' medals worth and who gets them? 