Sloss Tech is back. TechBirmingham and Telegraph Creative announced this week the return of Sloss Tech, the Southeast’s premier tech conference, to downtown Birmingham on June 9th.  The historic Lyric Theatre will serve as the conference hub, with satellite events and breakout sessions taking place at other locations around town, including the Sidewalk Film Center and Cinema. After four previous sold-out events, the COVID-19 pandemic put a halt to the popular gathering of the leaders and newcomers in tech. After three years, you can imagine the pent-up demand  from the Birmingham tech community to learn from industry leaders and entrepreneurs the latest innovations and developments in tech..  Past Sloss Tech conferences have attracted attendees from at least 47 states, and the event has generated tens of millions of online impressions as speakers, panelists and attendees alike chronicled their experiences through their social media pages. “There isn’t a week that goes by where someone doesn’t ask when we’re bringing back Sloss Tech,” described TechBirmingham CEO Deontée Gordon about the importance of the conference.  “There has been so much growth in Birmingham’s entrepreneurial and tech communities over the last few years. Now it’s time to take it to another level. This year’s Sloss Tech is going to be a reflection of how far we’ve come and set the stage for where we’re going.”  The year’s Sloss Tech has already garnered enthusiastic support from the City of Birmingham and a number of the community’s most prominent and respected businesses and business non-profits including: “Nothing transforms communities like better jobs and new opportunities,” said Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin. “Sloss Tech helps us tell the true story of Birmingham – both locally and around the country – that something special is happening here, and you’ve got to come experience it for yourself.” To get a taste of what Sloss Tech is like—check out the following stories published by Bham Now in 2018-2019: Telegraph Creative CEO Cliff Sims expects the 2023 version of Sloss Tech to be the most impactful ever.  “This year’s Sloss Tech is going to be the largest and most impactful yet. Alabama is getting serious about attracting and retaining world-class talent. We’re going to get behind great entrepreneurs. We’re going to keep building great companies that create better jobs. And Sloss Tech is going to be a catalyst for bringing people together to make it happen.” Watch this space for announcements regarding speakers, program details and tickets and sponsorships availability. Tickets will be available through the conference’s website, Sloss.tech. Longtime conservationist.  Former Executive Director at the Alabama Environmental Council and Wild South.  Publisher of the Bama Environmental News for more than 18 years.  Career highlights include playing an active role in the creation of Alabama's Forever Wild program, Little River Canyon National Preserve, Dugger Mountain Wilderness, preservation of special places throughout the East through the Wilderness Society and the strengthening (making more stringent) the state of Alabama's cancer risk and mercury standards. Stay in the know with our newsletter! A Rushing Waters Media Company All content on this site is Copyright ©  Rushing Waters Media LLC/Bham Now 2016-2024. All Rights Reserved. 