Global site navigation Local editions Most students dream of pursuing the Bachelor Of Business Information Technology (BBIT) course. However, some do not know much about this awesome programme. An in-depth look at this course, regarding requirements, institutions offering it, and fees, would come in handy. Businesses are rapidly embracing information technology in their day-to-day operations. Professionals with a Bachelor Of Business Information Technology are vital in the link between IT and business. Here is all about the BBIT course that you should know. What is the BBIT course all about? Business Information Technology is designed to equip students with the expertise required to develop and use computer systems. A well-round graduate can use these systems to solve business problems and make managerial decisions. A profession in this field is called a business information technologist. He is usually equipped with sufficient skills required to make in various fields such as IT, Marketing, and Finance. He makes IT work for businesses and thus simplifies engagements in workplaces. Read also 15 best technical courses in Kenya that you can take in 2024 Some of the common areas you will encounter as you study the Bachelor of Business Information Technology course include; This program is suitable for practising IT and business professionals. It Impacts practical knowledge on the application of modern technology in all business operations. However, before pursuing this course, you must have met a set of requirements. You require an aggregate grade of C+ and above in KCSE and a minimum grade of C in Mathematics, English and Kiswahili. Relevant qualifications approved by the recognised university would also merit. A Bachelor of Business Information Technology is marketable in the Kenyan economy. Information Technology (IT) has become a fundamental part of all kinds of business enterprises. As a result, graduates are guaranteed ready job opportunities in the country. Having graduated with BBIT, you can work in international firms such as IBM and Microsoft. It is not compulsory that you should work in technology firms alone. There are also numerous other opportunities in non-technological firms. Read also Data Science course: requirements, universities and colleges, fees 2021 What can I do with a BBIT degree? Some of the career opportunities available for BBIT professionals include: The Bachelor of Business Information Technology course is an excellent choice to help advance your career. Several universities will help you meet your professional goals if you consider taking this course. To obtain admission into this course in this institution, you need to have scored C+ in KCSE. Here are the universities which offer this course. Kenyatta University is one of the best centres of higher learning in Kenya, judging by the quality of our graduates. The institution offers several programmes, including a Bachelor Of Business Information Technology. The Multimedia University of Kenya is a public university located in Nairobi. It offers IT and related courses, Mass media, Business, Engineering and Social sciences education. Read also Kenya Institute of Security and Criminal Justice fee structure and courses Africa Nazarene University is a private Christian-founded university in Kenya. It is an affiliate of The Church of the Nazarene Colleges and Universities worldwide. It is accredited by the Commission for University Education and the International Board of Education. The Dedan Kimathi University of Technology is a public, coeducational technological university in Nyeri. It offers diplomas and degree certificates for various programs, including BBIT. Mount Kenya University is a chartered institution committed to a broad-based, holistic and inclusive education system. The institution has quickly transformed into one of the country's best centres of higher learning. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) is a public university that is situated in Juja. The institution offers various courses, including the Bachelor of Business Information Technology. Read also Michuki Technical Training Institute fee structure, courses, and contacts Taita Taveta University College is one of Kenya's vibrant, most diverse universities. The institution offers access to various programmes, including IT courses and business. Strathmore University is a chartered university. It is based in Nairobi and was started in 1961. It was the first multi-racial, multi-religious advanced-level sixth-form college offering science, IT, business, and arts subjects. St. Paul's University is a Christian ecumenical institution. It is a private institution that accepts students and staff from all over the world. It offers business and IT related courses. Riara University is a private university located along Mbagathi Way in Nairobi. It is accredited by SAP under the SAP University Alliance Programme. The university offers several courses, including BBIT. Zetech University is accredited by the Commission for University Education in Kenya. It offers quality higher education to thousands of students from Kenya. It offers education in Technology, Science, and Business programs. Read also Mathenge Technical Training Institute courses, application, contacts Kenya Methodist University is a Chartered Christian University. The main campus is situated in Meru, and it has campuses in Nairobi and Mombasa. It offers various programmes, including BBIT. Kirinyaga University is one of the leading universities in Kenya. It offers quality training, strategic research, innovation and technology development. It offers a Bachelor of Business Information Technology. The East African University (TEAU) offers various artisan, certificate, diploma, and degree courses. It offers a Bachelor of Business Information Technology by distance and full-time learning. The Technical University of Mombasa (TUM) is an ISO certified institution. It is also a University of Global Excellence in Advancing Knowledge, Science and Technology. It is the first institution of higher learning to be established in the coastal region. KCA is a private university founded in 1989 as Kenya College of Accountancy by the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya. It was established to improve the quality of accountancy and financial management training. It offers primarily business and IT related courses, including BBIT. Read also Business management courses, requirements and universities offering in Kenya University of Eastern Africa, Baraton is a private, coeducational Seventh-day Adventist university located in Nandi County. It is one of the oldest private universities locally and one of the first to offer a Bachelor of Business Information Technology. Murang'a University of Technology (MUT) is a chartered university established under the Universities Act of 2012. It offers several degree programmes related to IT, business, art, and engineering. The duration of the study varies depending on the institution. The duration of the degree course is four academic years or eight semesters. However, in some universities, students pursue this course for three years or nine semesters. The Bachelor Of Business Information Technology fee varies depending on the institution you join. Therefore, it will be convenient to visit or call individual universities to obtain the fee structure. Read also CISA training centers, study materials and admission requirements in Kenya The Bachelor Of Business Information Technology (BBIT) course should be a priority if you have a passion for IT and business. Professionals in this course are in high demand thanks to the growing business environment. Tuko.co.ke also shared details on the Software Engineering course. Software Engineering course strives to equip students with relevant knowledge and skills. It enables them to design, code, test, and manage quality-measured software systems. Software Engineering integrates significant mathematics, computer science, and practices whose origins are in engineering. There are requirements to meet if you are to pursue this course. Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Vivian Mutsoli                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Vivian Mutsoli is an experienced writer with over four years on TUKO.co.ke. She has also worked on LEGIT.ng and written articles on various trending topics like celebrities, IT, academic institutions, and more. She is a holder of a Bachelor of Commerce (Procurement and Supply Chain Management) from the University of Nairobi class of 2020. In 2023, Vivian finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. Email address: vmelsamutsoli@gmail.com
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you