In what can be called a big improvement, Google has now made it easier for its users to find out about their personal information online. Now, users will be able to find and remove their data especially, contact information from Google search results. This is because Google will now start sending out notifications whenever a user’s contact details such as phone number, address, or email appear on the search page. Based on the notification, users will be able to request the search giant to remove that specific information. The new feature is a part of the Results About You feature which was introduced last year. Users can now access the ‘results about you’ on their smartphones and the web. The latest update to the feature lets users get their information without the need to conduct a search on themselves. After a user inputs their personal information on the dashboard, it will automatically scrape websites that have matching information. It also allows users to review each webpage and submit requests to remove it. Google said that it will be rolling out the dashboard in the coming days which will let users know if web results with their contact details are being shown in search results. While users can quickly request the removal of the results, Google will also notify them when a new result from the web with their information appears in search. Users can access this tool in the Google app by tapping on their Google account photo and selecting ‘Results about you’ or by going to goo.gle/resultsaboutyou. As of now, this tool is only accessible in the US in English, however, Google is working towards bringing it to more locations and in more languages. 

  Nine people have been arrested in the Porsche accident case, including the 17-year-old driver whose blood sample was swapped with his mother's at Sassoon Hospital. A chargesheet has been filed and bail applications submitted, with evidence showing the driver was drunk. Previous arrests include the minor's parents and hospital staff for conspiring to swap the samples.  