| Jun 30, 2023 The new 2v2v2v2 brawler mode is coming to League of Legends, and we’ve compiled every map, modifier, and Augment available in the new LoL Arena mode. Fans of Riot’s MOBA are getting a brand new LoL Arena game mode in the new Soul Fighter Event. In this event, four teams of two players face off in escalating 2v2 duels. The big twist to this mode is Augments, powerful upgrades that affect your champion in game-changing ways. In between rounds, you have Buy Rounds to purchase Items and Augment rounds to purchase Augments. We’ve assembled all the details you need to navigate every aspect of the new game mode.  Augments are the biggest shake-up in the new LoL Arena mode, so we’ve compiled every Augment. They are separated into three tiers, Silver, Gold, and Prismatic. In ascending order, they tend to be more powerful. These are all of the LoL Arena Augments in the game right now. Silver is the lowest tier of Augment that LoL Arena players can get, they’re not jaw-dropping, but you can almost always find one that your champion can use. Gold Augments are the bread and butter of the LoL Arena experience. Many of them aren’t as impressive as Prismatic Augments, but there are still lots of powerful strategies that involve these Augments. Prismatic Augments are the highest tier of Augments in the LoL Arena game mode, many of them fundamentally alter a champion’s playstyle or send their power level skyrocketing with huge buffs. Arena Cameos are modifiers to each map you can fight on, featuring one of the Soul Fighter characters. Each one is different and offers a different mini-game on some maps. The new LoL Arena mode comes with several characters for the Soul Fighter event, many of them touting Soul Fighter skins. Sett: Sett adds a giant neutral Sett to the map. The team that gets the last hit on the Sett triggers his Haymaker, pointing in the direction of an enemy and unleashing a large cone of damage, with true damage to enemies directly in the middle. Naafiri: Naafiri’s map includes Naafiri and multiple Packmates patrolling in a circular pattern around the map. Each of them has a vision cone in front of them, enemies that enter the cone will be seen by Naafiri and her Packmates. When Naafiri and her Packmates see a champion, they jump to that champion and dealing a burst of physical damage. After they do this, they jump back to their default positions and reset, resuming patrol after a short duration. Samira: Samira’s map features a giant Samira, just like all the other maps’ respective Soul Fighter champions. Every time a champion is immobilized, Samira juggles that champion, extending their CC. Every fifth juggle, Samira reaches S rank and jumps to the enemy that was immobilized. Samira appears on that champion channeling her Ultimate, damaging the immobilized enemy and their ally if they are within the radius. After finishing her ultimate, Samira resets. Evelynn: All players have Evelynn’s camouflage, making them invisible beyond a certain radius.  Lux: This map features a giant Lux. The Lux scans across the map, channeling her Ultimate on the first champion she  detects. This Ultimate damages both teams.  Pyke: Pyke periodically casts Phantom Undertow, his dash, towards the furthest champion, stunning any champions hit.  Shaco: A giant Shaco walks around the map, placing down Jack in the Boxes constantly.  Viego: The first player to die is immediately revived as Viego for a short duration.  Jhin: A giant Jhin periodically casts Curtain Call, alternating shots between different players. Gwen: Occasionally protects the player with the lowest max HP by granting them her W, Hallowed Mist. That’s everything you need to know to dominate in the new LoL Arena game mode during the Soul Fighter event. 1 The best fightsticks to buy in 2023 2 A month-long review of the Cloud III gaming headset from HyperX 3 The absolute best gaming CPUs to buy in 2023 The King Of Curses might get dethroned soon. | Aug 19, 2024 Game Of The Year after critical concerns is impressive! | Aug 19, 2024 Here’s everything Psyduck can reportedly do. | Aug 16, 2024