MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  ANALYSIS "Proving that any particular plaintiff's cancer was caused by aspartame, as distinguished from the many other possible causes, could prove to be an insuperable obstacle to recovery," said Kenneth Abraham, a University of Virginia law professor. July 17, 2023 at 08:39 AM  4 minute read Consumer Products The original version of this story was published on Corporate Counsel Last week’s news on aspartame might have sounded bad for Coca-Cola and other consumer-product companies that widely use the artificial sweetener. After all, no manufacturer wants this kind of headline about one of its key ingredients, “Aspartame May Be a Carcinogen: How Worried Should You Be?” But attorneys in the food and beverage industry and academia say the mixed messages released on Friday about aspartame are unlikely to trigger the torrent of litigation that some class action lawyers had been gearing up for. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Chris O'Malley By Maria Dinzeo By Maria Dinzeo By Rhys Dipshan 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The National Law Journal honors attorneys & judges who've made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in the D.C. area. The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join National Law Journal now! Already have an account? Sign In Breaking news and trends for law firm and legal departments about the evolving federal regulations in a volatile political climate. The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.