The Privy Council Office (PCO) supports the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Led by the Clerk of the Privy Council, the department helps the government in implementing its vision, goals and decisions in a timely manner.  As head of the federal public service, the Clerk ensures that the Government of Canada is equipped to design and deliver high-quality programs and services to and for Canadians.  The Orders in Council Division provides advice and support to the Clerk of the Privy Council. Learn about the government’s appointment processes for agencies, boards, commissions, Crown corporations, tribunals, judicial office and the Senate. Read about the overall goals of the government and how it will accomplish them. Learn more about the role of the King’s Privy Council and obtain a complete list of its current and past members. Learn about the role of Cabinet, and current and previous Canadian ministries. Supports departmental security across federal organizations: find job opportunities and career paths within various federal departments and agencies across Canada. List of deputy minister champions and management committees on which they serve. Access the reports of current and historical commissions. The Government of Canada is committed to improving our regulatory and permitting processes without compromising environmental protections and Indigenous People’s rights. Prime Minister of Canada Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Leader of the Government in the House of Commons Minister of Public Safety, Democratic Institutions and Intergovernmental Affairs President of the King’s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Emergency Preparedness and Minister responsible for the Pacific Economic Development Agency of Canada Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister and Special Advisor for Water Parliamentary Secretary to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Parliamentary Secretary to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Government in the House of Commons Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Public Safety, Democratic Institutions and Intergovernmental Affairs (Cybersecurity) Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the King’s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Emergency Preparedness All news Highlights the work carried out by public servants over the past year in helping to deliver on the Government’s mandate. Remarks from the Clerk at the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Conference 2022.