While Amy Slaton and Tammy Slaton have showcased their weight loss journey on 1000-Lb Sisters, the siblings have had their fair share of ups and downs on and off camera. Amy, for her part, opened up about her run-in with the law when she was in her early 20s. During a February 2017 YouTube video, the TV personality revealed she was caught shoplifting at a local Walmart and was arrested for it. “It was 2010. I had a job … I had recently quit my job. My grandpa died and everything was going bad for me. I really wanted this book and I thought, ‘Well, I’m going to try to steal it,'” she explained in the clip. Amy recalled slipping the novel into her purse and setting off the security sensors as she was leaving the store. She denied taking anything to the employee and had them search her purse. When the worker asked about the book, Amy lied, saying she bought the item at another location. When the employee reviewed the security footage, he caught Amy in her lie and had to report it to the authorities. The TLC star revealed that the employee told her they would have let her go “with a warning” if she had been honest. During the season 1 finale of 1000-Lb Sisters — which aired in 2020 — the Kentucky natives went to their final weigh-in to see if they qualified for weight loss surgery. Amy reached her goal and qualified for the procedure while Tammy did not. "Now that I'm approved and she's not, I feel like she's kind of upset with me about it,” Amy shared at the time. “Most of the time I feel like I'm walking on eggshells around Tammy. You never know what's going to set her off and after this appointment with Dr. Procter, she's a ticking time bomb." While Amy began to move forward on her weight loss journey, Tammy’s personal battles often had to do with her health. In November 2020, Tammy was hospitalized for COVID-19 and pneumonia. After making a recovery, she was rushed to the hospital a year later after getting carbon monoxide poisoning. “I don’t remember any of it, nothing. I completely blacked out,” she recalled of the scary November 2021 incident in a January 2023 episode of the reality series. “I woke up a week later in the hospital, on life support. I don’t remember any of it.” While in the hospital, Tammy underwent a tracheotomy, which is a procedure where the surgeon makes a hole through the front of the neck and into the windpipe to keep it open for breathing per the Mayo Clinic. Shortly after her second hospitalization, Tammy decided to go to a weight-loss rehab facility in Ohio to help her shed some pounds. While there, she met Caleb Willingham who was a fellow patient at the clinic. The two hit it off and a romance blossomed. In November 2022, the couple tied the knot at the treatment facility where they first met. Ahead of her nuptials, Amy addressed her concerns about the twosome’s relationship moving rather quickly. “I’m genuinely trying to give Tammy everything she wanted in a wedding but I’m just so scared it’s gonna end up in travesty,” she confessed in a March 2023 episode. “What if you end up going home and figuring out you just didn’t wanna be married after all? Once they get home and reality sets in, who knows what’ll happen?” Before the episode aired, Amy suffered a heartbreak of her own. Us Weekly confirmed that her husband, Michael Halterman, filed for divorce from the TV star after four years of marriage. The pair share two sons, Gage and Glenn, whom they welcomed in November 2020 and July 2022 respectively. Sign up for Us Weekly's free, daily newsletter and never miss breaking news or exclusive stories about your favorite celebrities, TV shows and more! Keep scrolling to see Amy and Tammy’s ups and downs over the years: New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.