


Travel Daily - Informing, connecting and developing the world’s travel industry professionals.

  Tech firm The Booked it Group has launched new festival technology, helping hotels, venues and promoters in the travel industry to collaborate on events. A number of festivals in Malta have announced they’ll use the technology from summer 2022, including World Club Dome, Reggae Brunch, VIP Club Malta, Pitch Malta, Sundown, House & Garage In The Sun, and Soul & Reggae Group. The festival technology links directly with the hotel’s RMS, providing a seamless bolt-on for hotels to take advantage of new festival bookings. Festival venues can also utilise the technology to allow guests to book VIP tables and packages throughout the festival in real time using the platform.  The festival platform is London based The Booked it Group’s first travel sector specific product launch following its acquisition of youth travel brand Party Hard Travel in April 2022. Nathan Cable, co-founder of Party Hard Travel, joined The Booked it Group’s Board of Directors as part of the acquisition deal. The Booked it Group’s portfolio also includes night time economy social platform Licklist and leisure, activity and hospitality technology solutions provider Booked it. The tech firm also acquired luxury travel brand More Life VIP in October. Brad Nobbs, CEO and co-founder of The Booked it Group believes The Booked it Group is well positioned to innovate in the travel industry, saying: “The Booked it Group expanded significantly during the pandemic, processing £3 million in orders each month and £35 million each year, and launching in the US. We particularly see the travel sector as a growth area, as evidenced by our recent travel acquisitions. “We have been working on our new festival platform for over 6 months and are very proud of what we have built. New insight, knowledge and understanding of the travel sector, and working alongside festival promoters, hotels and venues, has enabled us to create an all in one solution for any festival.  “Another key aspect of our festival platform is providing full financial protection to the promoters and venues. The platform enables the venues, hotels and promoters to confirm the revenue splits prior to going live, the funds are then split accordingly through our dashboard. This was something that came up in our research as being a key priority for all parties, and we’re pleased to be able to offer an intuitive solution.” Bora Bora Ibiza Malta Hotel is one of the hotels that will utilise the new festival platform. Rodney Pisani from Bora Bora Ibiza Malta Hotel said: “This is game changing technology built for purpose and we are looking forward to putting on some amazing festivals next summer.”      

				Consumers continue to prioritize experiences and leverage flexi-work arrangements			

  

				REALM Events and Unicorn Group announce strategic joint venture			

  

				ABTA launches its events programme for 2023/24 with four new conferences			

  

				Make diversity and inclusion a part of every business event			

 ...there are many ways you can work with us to advertise your company and connect to your customers. Our team can help you design and create an advertising campaign We can also organize a real life or digital event for you and find thought leader speakers as well as industry leaders, who could be your potential partners, to join the event. We also run some awards programmes which give you an opportunity to be recognized for your achievements during the year and you can join this as a participant or a sponsor. Let us help you drive your business forward with a good partnership! Yes, contact me 
I want to download the media kit  
		Comments are closed.	 

						 POPULAR STORIES					
  

				For the top choice in business hotels in Manila – it’s…			

  

				Richard Stolz highlights detailed project planning and close…			

  

				Philippines named best diving destination at 2024 Diving…			

  

				Wonderfruit 2024 names Klook as official travel platform			

 Welcome, Login to your account. 




Sign in with Google

  Powered by wp-glogin.com Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you. Welcome back, Log in to your account. Recover your password. SIGN UP FOR FREE Be part of our community of seasoned travel and hospitality industry professionals from all over the world.