Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI) are up triple-digits ahead of the open, after the blue-chip index snapped a 13-day win streak yesterday. The S&P 500 Index (SPX) and Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX) are sitting higher as well, as investors unpack personal consumption expenditures (CPE) and core CPE data, which both rose a mild 0.2%, pointing to easing inflation. There are plenty of new corporate earnings reports as well, including strong results from Procter & Gamble (PG).  Continue reading for more on today's market, including:    Markets in Asia closed mostly higher today, with the exception of the Nikkei, which fell 0.4% after the Bank of Japan (BoJ) held its -0.1% policy rate and shifted its policy on yield curve control. China’s housing ministry is looking to making it easier for civilians to buy homes and land, sending property stocks higher. At the close, China’s Shanghai Composite added 1.8%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng tacked on 1.4%, and South Korea’s Kospi climbed a modest 0.2%. European stocks are looking modest today, as investors eye the BoJ’s policy update and numbers that indicate a struggling economy in Germany. Specifically, the German DAX is flat, after gross domestic product (GDP) data showed a 0.2% contraction on the year. London’s FTSE 100 was last seen up 0.04% and France’s CAC 40 is off 0.1%.                                                                                                    
Has Jeff Bezos Found the Next Nvidia?
 ↳ From Louis Navellier @ InvestorPlace ↲ 
                                                                                                                                                                                                        
3 Tiny Stocks CRUSHING Amazon Right Now
 ↳ From The Investors Alley Team ↲ 
                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Get Your Cash Out of U.S. Banks Immediately
 ↳ From Chaikin Analytics ↲ 
                                                                                                      