You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Aug 29, 2023, 11:03pm If you work in the computer technology or engineering field and already have a bachelor’s degree, a master’s in computer engineering can help you qualify for higher-level positions or even a doctoral program, if that’s your goal. But with the vast selection of master’s degrees out there for tech professionals, how do you know if a master’s in computer engineering is right for you? In this article, we cover everything you need to know about computer engineering master’s degrees, including admission requirements, common coursework, specializations and career options. Read on to learn more. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. A master’s in computer engineering prepares you to work in various technical careers or to pursue a doctoral degree. A computer engineering master’s helps you develop in-depth knowledge of subjects like computer networks and communications principles, hardware, software and computer architecture. As a computer engineering master’s student, you may need to choose a specialization or concentration, which focuses your studies on a specific area of the field. You should also expect to meet practicum requirements, such as a thesis or project. These often involve in-depth research on an area of interest. A master’s in computer engineering typically requires around 30 credits and takes two years of full-time study to complete. Below we list common admission requirements for a computer engineering master’s degree. Standards vary by program but often include the following: Computer engineering programs may allow you to specialize in a niche area of study. Specialization offerings vary among programs but may include: This specialization focuses on topics related to hardware and computer architecture. It covers advanced digital design, parallel computer architecture, computer hardware testing theory, introduction to embedded systems, high-performance programming and advanced microprocessor design. Students in this specialization undergo in-depth training in wireless communication, cybersecurity, advanced coding theory, randomized network algorithms, digital communication, error-control codes and mobile ad hoc networking. This specialization covers subjects essential to cybersecurity, including computer communication networks, fundamentals of cryptography, advanced cryptography, advanced data structures, computer network security and cybersecurity. In this specialization, you might build knowledge of various software concepts, including software system design, advanced data structures, advanced software for computer engineers, software system design, high-performance programming and information-theoretical design of algorithms. A robotics specialization allows you to design a robotic prototype, develop robotic applications and create robots. Expect to study robotics, machine learning and applications, robotics and ROS, computer vision and applications, and mobile robots. This specialization provides the knowledge needed to work in computer chip design or the manufacturing industry. It covers advanced digital system design, digital systems testing, low-power system design, digital systems synthesis and optimization, and functional verification. Course options vary by program, but below are some common courses for computer engineering master’s students. This course covers the foundations of computer design. It teaches software and hardware principles, memory hierarchy, parallel programming models, instruction set architectures, computer arithmetic, game console architectures, and multicores and multiprocessors. Students in this course explore computer networking technologies and other issues involved in our global information structure. The curriculum introduces sensor networking and looks at how the internet and communication technologies have affected information access. Learners in an optical interferometry and laser metrology course learn to identify and analyze interferometric measurements and schemes of interferometers. The course provides an introduction to laser sources, high-resolution metrology, applications, data analysis and interferometric techniques. An electrical power engineering course covers the systems engineering life cycle, including methods for evaluating and analyzing this process. Learners study real-world experiences and explore design and analysis tools and case studies related to the system design process. The computer engineering and computer science fields both involve working with computer and information systems, problem-solving, testing and coding. However, the fields are notably different. Computer engineering emphasizes the design and development of computer systems, hardware and interfaces. Computer science focuses on computer theory, including algorithms, cybersecurity, data analysis and computer networks. If you’re trying to decide between a master’s in computer engineering and a master’s in computer science, you should first think about how you want your career path to look. If you prefer working with computer systems and hardware, a computer engineering degree may suit you better. If you see yourself working with more theoretical and analytical concepts, consider a computer science major instead. The salary data below comes from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Median Annual Salary: $132,360
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, some prefer a master’s degree
Job Overview: Computer hardware engineers research, design, develop, modify and test various aspects of building computer systems and components. These may include networks, processors, memory devices, routers and circuit boards. These professionals also work with software developers to ensure the hardware and software operate correctly together. Median Annual Salary: $126,900
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree
Job Overview: Computer network architects design, build and troubleshoot data communication and information networks. They assume a proactive role by analyzing data and estimating growth to identify potential network issues that may arise down the road. Computer network architects typically collaborate with information technology staff to ensure networks operate correctly and meet users’ needs. Median Annual Salary: $136,620
Minimum Required Education: Master’s degree, some may accept a bachelor’s degree
Job Overview: Computer and information research scientists design, create and optimize the computer software and hardware used in business, medicine and science, among other industries. They develop and apply theories to identify system needs and solve computing problems. These professionals also use data science and machine learning techniques to test software system operation. Median Annual Salary: $102,240
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, some prefer a master’s degree
Job Overview: Computer systems analysts study business, engineering and other data processing obstacles and procedures, developing solutions to address issues. They identify information technology needs, research new technologies, analyze the benefits and costs of upgrades, test systems, and configure software and hardware to ensure computer systems operate correctly. Median Annual Salary: $112,000
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree
Job Overview: Information security analysts ensure the security of computer networks and systems. They monitor and identify security breaches, maintain data encryption programs and firewalls, stay updated on information technology trends, create documentation on attempted security breaches and attacks, and recommend system improvements to maintain a high level of security. For many professionals, yes. A master’s degree in computer engineering helps prepare you for advanced positions developing computer networks, hardware and systems. If your desired career path requires specialized skills in these areas, a master’s in computer engineering can help you achieve your goals. No, computer engineering and computer science are not the same area of study. Computer engineering focuses more on building computer networks and systems, while computer science emphasizes computing theory, data analysis and algorithms. 

 Sheryl Grey is a freelance writer who specializes in creating content related to education, aging and senior living, and real estate. She is also a copywriter who helps businesses grow through expert website copywriting, branding and content creation. Sheryl holds a Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications from Indiana University South Bend, and she received her teacher certification training through Bethel University’s Transition to Teaching program.