  A support group, the Obidatti People’s Movement (ODPM) has expressed optimism that Northern Nigeria will support the Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed during the 2023 general elections billed for next month, as well as all the LP candidates vying for various offices The group expressed this at a press briefing held yesterday in Kaduna, ahead of Obi’s campaign flag off billed for this Wednesday in the political capital of Northern Nigeria, with the theme, “Our Future is Bright with OBI-DATTI VICTORY” “We sincerely believe that the North will support the Obi-Datti campaign to rescue this nation come May 29,” the group said. According to the text of the briefing jointly signed by Hon Charles Obiora Anueyiagu (national coordinator, Obi-Datti People’s Movement Nigeria), Bon Nebo Esq Diaspora Coordinator ObiDatti People’s Movement and Kenneth Chukwu (Director General ObiDatti People’s Movement), the group assured Nigerians that with an Obi-Datti presidency, all the woes of Nigeria will become a thing of the past within the shortest possible time. “Our unalloyed support for joint ticket of Obi-Datti is hinged on the following facts; Character, Capability and Competence, verifiable track records and accountability.   “The first time all Nigerians are speaking with one voice irrespective of tribes, regions and religions because of Obi-Datti with a transformative agenda. A paradigm shift from consumption to production.   “Obi Datti will provide equal opportunities to all Nigerians regardless of ethnicity or religion, end to corruption and ensure empowerment of Nigerian youth.   “For the first time Nigerians and the rest of the world have a presidential and vice presidential candidate both being loved equally for their ability and competency of good leadership.   “They have records of prudent management and leading by example. And will therefore, be able to transform our civil service, the armed forces, the police force, and all other paramilitary, and governance institutions for good.   “Education and Youth Development: This is also the first time the skills, wisdom and suppressed knowledge of Nigerian Youth comes alive in a high scale dimension. This is a rebirth of hope for our youth who are the future of our nation, Nigeria.   “Corruption will die natural death. Only the incorruptible can fight corruption successfully. And only the contented pass through the Nigeria system without being corrupted. We have a duo with impeccable and incorruptible character.   “Therefore, our victory in the forthcoming election is the right signal for rebirth of integrity and change of the psyche of our people towards non-corruption characteristics.   “We created a site named, wheremypvc.com, where we encouraged masses to go get their PVCs, we tell them locations of their PVCs within Rivers State.   “We therefore, ask all the executives and coordinators of this honourable group and the Obidients all over the North West to be present in Kaduna for this very important campaign.   “We plan to use this opportunity to show the world our abilities, and also to identify with our principals in Kaduna, this Wednesday 18th January, 2023” they explained.   “We therefore, encourage everybody to be there and be a part of this history making political event seeking to liberate and promote the Nigerian people,” they said.    © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.  © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.