The United States-based, Nigerian owned entertainment outfit, Don Crucifixto, is set to add another name to its expanding roster. Reports indicated that the label recently  parted ways with some of its other artistes, but confirmation for that was unavailable as at press time . Osun State-born Igbalajobi Adedoyin is purported to be in line up of signed artistes under the record label. If the indications are true, it would cement the status of Don Crucifixto Entertainment as one of the key talent promoters in the Nigerian entertainment scene. Conversations with the Dashing Wetly pointed to her determination to justify her inclusion in the family by making good music, and also earn her spot in the music scene. She thanked the CEO of DC Records, Mr Tumininu Oluyole, for the confidence reposed in her, promising to do her best to further help grow DC Records and Nigerian music at home and abroad. “It is now rare to get record labels to sign artistes on because a majority of talents out there go it alone. “As much as I appreciate the successes of such lucky acts, it is always best for musicians to compose music or concentrate on singing, and allow label owners to produce and market music. It is not easy to do both. That is why I consider myself lucky to be signed on by a record label, especially a proficient one in Don Crucifixto Entertainment – I can’t wait to get started, “ she said. About two years ago, the outfit signed on Adefioye Solomon, a k.a. Ewa; Musa Kabir Omeiza, a.k.a. Kabir and Toluwalope Ibukun Temidayo, a.k.a. Dayz. In conversations earlier in the year, the CEO known as Tumi, expressed confidence in the ability of any new addition to his label to churn out good music, and actively competing with others in the fast-growing industry. Tumi, whose sole passion is to invest in, and promote Nigerian acts, harped on the youthfulness of Wetly and her vibrance. He believes her strength will make her a force to be reckoned with in the very competitive Nigerian music industry. Also expressing confidence in Wetly, the A&R (Artist and repertoire) for the Label Alashi Kunle and incidentally manager to famed artiste Sean Dampte, with his Media Partner Awofeso Jeremiah Ebunoluwatobi a.k.a Biggie said the latest lady on the block would dish out hit tracks back to back. “Those with ears for good music should await her coming,” he said.   READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE    

Get real-time news updates from Tribune Online! Follow us on WhatsApp for breaking news, exclusive stories and interviews, and much more. Join our WhatsApp Channel now


  © 2023 Tribune Online - an online publication of African Newspapers of Nigeria Plc. All rights reserved  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 

 
- Select Visibility -PublicPrivate  © 2023 Tribune Online - an online publication of African Newspapers of Nigeria Plc. All rights reserved