For premium support please call: For premium support please call: We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we believe in. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Over my two decades as a health writer and editor, I have been deeply in the trenches of all things health, wellness and fitness. I have tried every fad diet, exercise regime and everything else in between. While there are no complaints here – I love trying this stuff – there have been plenty of duds and few stellar wins. I pretty much hate all fad diets, but I do love intermittent fasting. While Crossfit wasn’t for me, High-intensity interval training (HIIT) absolutely was my jam. Yoga, pilates, dancing and swimming are my all-time faves that I never want to know a life without. When fitness apps hit the market, I tried every one I could download, from the free ones to the not-so-free. Having a virtual personal trainer everywhere I go? Yes, please! I quickly found the apps that focused on one discipline, like just pilates or Barre or cardio, were not for me. I need variety to keep my exercise game on track. Then, I found Alo Moves. Whether you’re a complete beginner or want to step up your routine, get the full studio experience at home with thousands of classes for body, mind, and spirit. Free two-week trial plus a $2k sweepstakes. Alo Moves is an all-in-one fitness app that offers multiple exercise disciplines from yoga to pilates to HIIT to weight training, dance, cardio and so much more. What I especially love, is that the personal trainers featured in each workout video represent multiple backgrounds, ages (from 20’s to 70’s!), cultures, body types, and personalities. Imagine, not only finding the workout you want, but an instructor that looks like you, is the same age as you, inspires you, has a personality you connect with, and an energy that makes you keep coming back for more. The music is also incredibly motivating (Think: Tayor Swift “Shake It Off”) and you have the ability to adjust the sound in relation to the instructor so that you can hear only the instructor, only the music, or a perfect combination of both. One of my all-time favorite app features — and one of the things that set it apart from many others — is its approach to workout series. The Series, as they call it, is a number of workout videos that build on itself so you can create a weekly workout regime to both challenge you and level up your game. They are launching a new running series that I cannot wait to try. If this sounds like something you might be interested in but don't want to commit, there’s a two-week free trial. There are thousands of videos available designed to meet all fitness levels. You can either watch the videos via the website, Apple TV, or download the Alo Moves app on the Apple App Store (App not available for Android yet) for on-the-go workouts. Alo Moves is also offering a fantastic back-to-school deal for new students, for only $5 a month or $49 a year. Trust me; you will be so glad you downloaded Alo Moves. AOL AOL AOL AOL AOL AOL Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement