Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate life insurance products to write unbiased product reviews. Since 1879, Iowa-based Principal Financial has sold insurance and retirement products to individuals and businesses worldwide, accruing more than 50 million customers. However, at the close of September 2021, Principal Life Insurance stopped selling policies to individuals to focus on life insurance for business owners and, by extension, employees. Business Insider has compared Principal Financial Life Insurance against over 30 other providers to find the best life insurance companies. Today, the company's forte remains group term life insurance up to $1 million with the option of adding up to $500,000 of additional voluntary coverage per employee. In addition, Principal offers a wide array of universal life insurance for business owners since protecting your loved ones' future goes hand-in-hand with protecting your company. Get Life Insurance Quotes Compare affordable life insurance options with Policygenius. The company's solid financial banking equates to competitive rates for life insurance products. As a result, some are cheaper than average, even with common conditions like asthma and diabetes. Grant from American Fork, Utah, left a review on BestCompany saying, "We have had Principal Financial through employers, and have been very pleased with the service and value." Get Life Insurance Quotes Compare the best life insurance companies with a quote from Everyday Life Insurance. The employer must initiate the claim via a secure online form. The beneficiary is then responsible for completing this form. For multiple beneficiaries, each must submit a separate claim form. Once complete, submit it to the company as follows: Principal Life Insurance Company Attn: Group Life and Disability Claims Department 711 High Street Des Moines, IA 50392-0002 Fax: 1.800.255.6609 Email: SBDClaims@principal.com Phone: 1.800.245.1522 For individuals without existing life insurance coverage, an employer-provided life insurance policy from Principal Financial can be an alluring part of an employee's benefits package. In most cases, guaranteed coverage without a medical exam (in amounts not published on the company's website) and accelerated underwriting for those who qualify are the top draws. Still, relying solely on this life insurance coverage comes with inherent risks. The most significant restriction when it comes to employer-provided term life insurance is the term (or specific length of coverage) often goes hand-in-hand with the period of employment. When you separate from the company, your coverage will lapse. Furthermore, coverage tends to be based on some multiple of the insured's annual salary or position within the company. So it's essential to determine if coverage is sufficient or if an additional layer of protection is needed. Principal Financial offers policies that pay a predetermined death benefit if the insured dies within the specified term or number of years. These plans aim to empower business owners with a flexible, broad range of coverage options for employees. In addition, employer-paid group life insurance and employee-paid voluntary life insurance may appeal to different buyers. Group term life insurance This group plan is offered exclusively through employers to employees. Depending on your business budget, employers can pay all, part, or none of the annual premiums. Employees are generally eligible for a flat benefit (coverage based on a fixed dollar amount). For example, a flat $20,000 can pay for a life insurance benefit of $20,000). Some buy a salary-based policy to set the policy by how much the employee makes. For example, a 200% benefit on a salary of $50,000 pays a life insurance benefit of $100,000) up to $1 million per individual. Group term life insurance from Principal allows dependent coverage. The company pays a flat fee for the insured's spouse and children aged 26 and under. This extra cost can be passed on to employees. Term policy buyers can also access extra features at no additional cost, including: Supplemental term life insurance Its supplemental term life insurance allows employees to increase coverage and/or add coverage for family members (at the employee's expense). In addition, Principal offers salary-based (also called percentage of salary) and increment-based. Supplemental life insurance can be an easy choice if you're looking for cheap life insurance. Lifelong coverage that builds cash value to withdraw when needed is the cornerstone of universal life insurance. Unlike whole life policies, the death benefit or funds you can access change over time. The longer you live, the more your payment will be when you file a claim. Principal offers seven types of universal life insurance (including indexed and variable options) for business owners keen on protecting valuable assets and providing for loved ones. The cash value of this permanent life insurance product rises and falls with an index like the S&P 500. A bonus is loans or early withdrawals. But, of course, early withdrawals not repaid will reduce the death benefit. The increased flexibility of variable universal life insurance allows those with long-term insurance, investment, and tax-planning needs to play an active role in their financial future. Cash-value components vary based on premiums, fees and expenses, investment performance, and the total value of loans/withdrawals. This is one of the most profitable types of life insurance for serious planners. Insurance riders offer supplemental coverage extending beyond the parameters of a base policy. Principal Financial offers four base riders free of charge to all policyholders and three add-ons (available for an additional fee). See how Principal Financial stacks up against leading life insurance providers. Principal Financial's employer-provided group term life insurance is guaranteed for all employees. As such, it's an excellent option for those individuals who might not otherwise qualify for life insurance due to a preexisting medical condition. In addition, Principal Financial and Prudential have available limits going into the millions for qualified buyers. However, Prudential also offers PruTerm (year-by-year coverage up to $10 million for individuals ages 18-85). This far outpaces the products available with Principal Financial. Prudential offers group term life insurance to protect employees' loved ones in the case of the insured's premature death. Both companies provide comparable options for universal life insurance, including indexed and variable ULI, and similar minimum coverage between $50,000-$100,000. However, individual buyers can only buy from Prudential. Principal Financial scored 772 (out of 1000) on the latest JD Power US Individual Life Insurance Study, which falls just shy of Prudential (which earned 773) and the industry standard of 774. Still, its overall customer satisfaction is rising. Conversely, customer complaints on Consumer Affairs run the gamut from needing help submitting recurring payments to lengthy claims processes and delays in paying benefits. Sites like Consumer Affairs also have widespread reports of poor customer service. Prudential Life Insurance Review Principal Financial's employer-provided group term life insurance provides peace of mind for your family after your premature death. It also comes with the added benefit of guaranteed coverage with no medical exams or health-related questions. However, the available coverage varies depending on your employer's willingness to pay. New York Life offers group term life insurance and guarantees coverage for your employees with the option of additional coverage to those in good health. With employer-provided coverage, policyholders can pay premiums through payroll deductions reducing hassle and eliminating the chance of your policy being canceled due to missed payments. New York Life earns high marks for financial stability and customer service. In addition, it's known for its extensive individual policies for a comfortable retirement, increased generational wealth, and more. Individuals like Kathy of Irvine, CA, on ConsumerAffairs have positive feedback, stating, "The New York Life Insurance agent and representatives I've had the pleasure of communicating with were always professional and knowledgeable. This was especially true after the passing of a loved one and the required paperwork needed for disbursement of funds." Individual experiences vary, and some customers also complain about unresponsive agents. However, New York Life representatives are often knowledgeable about competitive products. In addition, agents are well-prepared to assist you if you have questions about loans, early withdrawals, etc. New York Life Insurance Review Some employers look into term life insurance products. The idea is to cover employees during their prime working years that would serve the employer. At this time, Primerica only offers term policies in terms ranging from 10-35 years. Coverage amounts range from $15,000- $10 million for qualified buyers. As one of the country's largest term life insurance providers, it offers potential customers a needs-based analysis to determine the appropriate death benefits. Primerica utilizes independent contractors (not full-time employees) to execute the company's multi-level marketing structure. As a result, it's common for customers to buy via family and/or friends. That said, Adrian of Pico Rivera, CA, left a review on ConsumerAffairs left a review saying, "I would've never thought we would've gotten paid out since we had just done the application, never even did our physical. But yet 3 days later my agent showed up to my doorstep with our check for $250,000." Primerica Life Insurance Review When comparing life insurance companies, we use myriad factors, from customer service, pricing, and net performance scores to product quality and insurance riders. Information regarding numerous life insurance products is used in the process. The opinions here are based entirely on facts gleaned from research. No rating is based on marketing tactics or standalone online reviews. When shopping for life insurance to meet your needs, we recommend seeking the advice of a qualified agent. You can read more about our rating system here. Jump to