Empire is attacked in this savage peek at the new season's explosive July 14 premiere. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Emmy-nominated actor Lee Pace always delivers compelling performances, whether he's trying to dominate the galaxy as Ronan the Accuser in "Guardians of the Galaxy" or swaying investors as charismatic computer impresario Joe MacMillan in AMC's "Halt and Catch Fire." In his standout role as the merciless Galactic Emperor in Apple TV+'s "Foundation," Pace's Brother Day character is a treacherous tyrant trying to hold together an empire of thousands of worlds as a resistance movement hatched by psychohistorian and mathematician Hari Seldon threatens his genetic clones' centuries-old reign. Pace can now be seen sans clothes and putting up one heck of a fight after an intimate session of carnal knowledge with his android companion and confidante Demerzel (Laura Birn) in a new clip from "Foundation's" Season 2 premiere, titled "The Fight." Related: 'Foundation' Season 2 trailer teases 'despair, death and destruction' for Apple TV+'s epic space drama  Here's the season's official synopsis: "More than a century after the Season 1 finale, tension mounts throughout the galaxy in 'Foundation' Season 2. As the Cleons unravel, a vengeful queen plots to destroy Empire from within. Hari, Gaal and Salvor discover a colony of Mentalics with psionic abilities that threaten to alter psychohistory itself. The Foundation has entered its religious phase, promulgating the Church of Seldon throughout the Outer Reach and inciting the Second Crisis: War with Empire.  "The monumental adaptation of 'Foundation' chronicles the stories of four crucial individuals transcending space and time as they overcome deadly crises, shifting loyalties and complicated relationships that will ultimately determine the fate of humanity." Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! According to Pace during a chat with Space.com, the naked battle featured in the new clip was heavily rehearsed with the series' stunt coordinators to ensure authenticity and safety. The brawny, Oklahoma-born actor did the entire attack scene without the benefit of any stunt doubles, and the savagery of the clash comes across as a testament to the royal character's inner turmoil and complexity.   —  New 'Foundation' Season 2 trailer teases massive spaceships and explosive combat (video)  — 'Dune: Part 2' trailer offers a glimpse of Christopher Walken as Emperor of the Universe  —  Foundation' Season 2 trailer teases 'despair, death and destruction' for Apple TV+'s epic space drama Other actors returning for "Foundation" Season 2 are Jared Harris, Cassian Bilton and Terrence Mann, alongside newbies Isabella Laughland (Brother Constant), Kulvinder Ghir (Poly Verisof), Ella-Rae Smith (Queen Sareth of Cloud Dominion), Holt McCallany (Warden Jaegger Fount), Rachel House (Tellem Bond), Nimrat Kaur (Yanna Seldon), Ben Daniels (Bel Riose), and Dimitri Leonidas (Hober Mallow). "Foundation" was adapted from Isaac Asimov's classic sci-fi novels by executive producer and showrunner David S. Goyer ("Man of Steel," "DaVinci's Demons") for Apple and Skydance Television, in partnership with Alex Graves, David Ellison, Dana Goldberg, Bill Bost, Robin Asimov and Marcy Ross acting as co-executive producers. "Foundation" Season 2 streams exclusively on Apple TV+ beginning July 14, 2023. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Jeff Spry is an award-winning screenwriter and veteran freelance journalist covering TV, movies, video games, books, and comics. His work has appeared at SYFY Wire, Inverse, Collider, Bleeding Cool and elsewhere. Jeff lives in beautiful Bend, Oregon amid the ponderosa pines, classic muscle cars, a crypt of collector horror comics, and two loyal English Setters. This Week In Space podcast: Episode 124 — Space For Everyone 'Star Trek: Prodigy' is the 'Voyager' spin-off you never knew you wanted — and we love it Perseid meteor shower rains 'shooting stars' over Stonehenge in glorious astrophotography image Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 