Barclays analyst David Anderson maintained a Buy rating on Patterson-UTI (PTEN – Research Report) today and set a price target of $19.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $10.56. Anderson covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Valaris, TechnipFMC, and NOV. According to TipRanks, Anderson has an average return of -1.7% and a 41.79% success rate on recommended stocks.  Patterson-UTI has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $18.13, a 71.69% upside from current levels. In a report released on May 1, Piper Sandler also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $19.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $20.22  and a one-year low of $10.19. Currently, Patterson-UTI has an average volume of 3.8M.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. engages in the provision of onshore contract drilling services to major and independent oil and natural gas operators. It operates through the following segments: Contract Drilling Services, Pressure Pumping Services, and Directional Drilling Services. The Contract Drilling Services segment markets its services to major and independent oil and natural gas operators. The Pressure Pumping Services segment provides pressure pumping services to oil and natural gas operators primarily in Texas and the Appalachian Basin. The Directional Drilling Services segment offers downhole performance motors and equipment to provide services including directional drilling, downhole performance motors, motor rentals, directional surveying, measurement-while-drilling, and wireline steering tools, in most major onshore oil and natural gas basins. The company was founded by Cloyce A. Talbott and A. Glenn Patterson in 1978 and is headquartered in Houston, TX.  Read More on PTEN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks