SEARCH LANGUAGE FOLLOW US ON FEEDBACK On November 27, Sunny Deol's son and actor Karan Deol turned a year older.  As actor Karan Deol turns a year older today, his father Sunny Deol has shared an emotional note for his son saying as a director to his son his admiration for Karan’s hard work and effort was always sky-high. Karan Deol made his debut with Pal Pal Dil Ke Paas followed by Velle both of which movies earned a lot of appreciation from the fans. Karan is just two films old in the industry and is always seen looking forward to making his own identity in the Industry.  As the Actor celebrates his Birthday today his family poured in heartfelt wishes for the lad. Chachu Bobby Deol posted a picture on the gram wishing, Karan, while In his post dedicated to his son, Sunny wrote, “As a director, I pushed your limits, and made you do everything. You rappelled off of high peaks in the Himalayas, jumped into frozen lakes, swam in Grade 6 Rapids water streams, got stuck between rocks, got hurt, but kept going on and on without a second thought...just because you believed in me!" The dotting father further added, "When I was making you do all this, as a father my heart was always in my mouth, as a director my admiration for you was scaling mountaintops! You will succeed in your life my son because you take no shortcuts. I know it’s a lot of hard work, keep going, respect elders, be kind and standup up for what is right! Happy Birthday, son!"     A post shared by Sunny Deol (@iamsunnydeol)  On the work front, Karan Deol will now be seen in Apne 2 alongside Sunny Deol and Bobby Deol. The movie will be a family entertainer that will include action and drama. Also Read: Raveena Tandon visits the sets of Baap; clicks selfie with Sunny Deol, Mithun Chakraborty, Jackie Shroff and Sanjay Dutt Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2024 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama. No Releated Data       Skip this step for now   5000  characters remaining