PulteGroup's proposed 45-home subdivision on North River Road between Saratoga Boulevard and Marsh Road has been advanced to Stow City Council to determine whether the development will be built. The five-member Stow Planning Commission voted 4-0 Tuesday night to advance the plan. Commission member Jared Miller was absent from the meeting. Residents opposed to the plan had urged the commission to block it from moving forward. The commission, however, is required to recommend development proposals that meet the zoning code regardless of any community objections. Dave Kazmierksi, speaking on behalf of the group Stop Miller's Landing, argued to the commission that Miller's Landing didn't meet the definition of a subdivision under the zoning code because the two lots of the development aren't contiguous. Final approval rests with City Council. It was not immediately clear how soon the proposal will receive a first reading.Jim O'Connor, Pulte's planning director, said the subdivision is needed because of a housing shortage in the market. He expressed confidence that there would be no problem selling these homes. "We know through Realtor focus groups and focus groups throughout the city that the Realtors support this, and want to see more housing choices in the marketplace," O'Connor said, adding that consumers and real estate agents have an appetite for new construction. The planning commission voted down a request to vacate a number of roads north of the proposed site of Miller's Landing. The petition to vacate was submitted by Jacqueline Kazmierski and James and Cynthia Goldsmith. At the meeting, Jefferey Frye, owner of the properties on which these so-called "paper roads" — roads planned for but never developed — appeared with attorney Jordan Berns of the firm Berns, Ockner & Greenberger, LLC. Berns, speaking on his client's behalf, said vacating those roads would hurt the Frye family, which owns more than 120 individual lots in the Bona Meade allotment off Marsh Road. Berns pointed out that the petition was filed without showing good cause for the city to vacate the roads. If the city had vacated the roads, the Fryes would have been entitled to financial compensation. Berns said that the money owed to the family by the city would be in the millions of dollars. He added that the Ohio Revised Code stipulates that if a petition to vacate roads is granted, those whose property is damaged by that decision have a right to file for damages against the petitioners. "Those parcels front almost entirely on the roads that the petitioners have sought to vacate," Berns said. "These are lots that were purchased over the last 40-plus years, one by one. They are buildable lots. They front on what is platted as a public street, and they were purchased with the purpose of one day having homes built on them." The Planning Commission was on track to approve the Miller's Landing plan at its Aug. 22 meeting, but delayed action for a month after a last-minute lawsuit was filed by opponents who want the Summit County Common Pleas court to intervene on their behalf. That lawsuit is scheduled for a Jan. 23 hearing. Contact reporter Derek Kreider at DKreider@Gannett.com This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Miller's Landing subdivision proposal clears Stow Planning Commission New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.