WSB Now  ATLANTA, Ga. — It wasn’t quite a white Christmas, but close enough in some parts of north Georgia, which started seeing snow on the ground just before 6 p.m. In metro Atlanta, it was a different story, with the weekend’s bitter cold causing pipes to burst all over the city, leaving residents stranded in their homes and without water. [DOWNLOAD: Free WSB-TV News app for alerts as news breaks] Channel 2′s Elizabeth Rawlins was at the Icon apartments in Midtown, where residents reported that they were trapped inside some buildings due to flooding in the entryways. Another pipe appeared to have burst in a stairwell, creating an icy mess. Here’s the latest: Monday 11:00 p.m. DeKalb Water Management has repaired the water main break off Peachtree Industrial Boulevard and Miller Road. The water system is gaining pressure. Residents who were experiencing low to no water pressure should see increasing pressure in the system over the next few hours. Monday 10:02 p.m. City of Atlanta officials confirm there have been no issues with the transmission mains with in the service area, including the South Fulton area. Monday 8:16 p.m. The city of Forest Park will host another water distribution event on Tuesday, Dec. 27 at 9 a.m. at the Forest Park Recreation Center parking lot, located at 803 Forest Parkway. There will be one case of water distributed per vehicle. City residents must show proof of residency to receive a case of water. Monday 8:00 p.m. A water main break has been reported in the vicinity of the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, according to Delta Airlines. Vendors, concessions, restaurants and terminal facilities are all being impacted by sporadic water pressure issues. Monday 6:30 p.m. Officials with the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport are notifying visitors to the airport that emergency alarms tripped by low water pressure warnings may sound in the airport over the next 24 hours. Airport personnel will respond, investigate and reset the alarms. Monday 6:20 p.m. Clayton County Board of Commissioners and Clayton County Water Authority are partnering to provide bottled water to residents today from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. while supplies last. Residents can pick up water at two Fire & Emergency Services station locations. There is a limit of 1 case per vehicle. Please provide proof of Clayton County residency with a State Issued ID, utility bill, or lease agreement. Monday 5:41 p.m. Snow has already started falling in Whitfield County in far north Georgia. Some snow flurries may impact metro Atlanta later this evening. Monday 3:47 p.m. Tallulah Gorge State Park said Monday night that the national park is experiencing a major water outage and restrooms are down. Monday 3:41 pm. The City of College Park is asking the public to remain patient as crews in East Point, which supplies water to College Park, work to repair a major water main break on their 16″ and 8″ water lines. Monday 3:30 p.m. All Fulton County libraries, senior centers, arts centers, behavioral health offices and facilities serving adults with disabilities will be closed on Tuesday due to damage due to the severe cold after the past few days. Other Fulton County offices will reopen at 8:30 a.m. Fulton County libraries, senior centers, arts centers, behavioral health offices and centers for adults with developmental disabilities will be closed to the public on Tuesday, December 27. https://t.co/94jN7wWBZE pic.twitter.com/dwEpNXVjeG 2:45 p.m. A boil water advisory has been issued for residents in the North Monroe County water system due to a water main leak in the Butts County Water System, which services Monroe County. The advisory applies to any residences on Johnstonville Road and north of Johnstonville Road other than the River Forest, Riata, and River Walk subdivisions. 2:11 p.m. Clayton County Water Authority (CCWA) staff is coordinating several distribution sites for later this afternoon for bottled water distribution for customers without water service. Details will be shared as soon as everything is ready for customers. 2:01 p.m. DeKalb County Department of Watershed Management crews are working to a repair a water main break off Peachtree Industrial Blvd. and Miller Road. 1:07 p.m. Gov. Brian Kemp has extended a state of emergency that was already in effect for another 24 hours as winter weather is expected to move in this afternoon. In advance of the winter weather expected this evening and out of extra caution for the safety of Georgia families, I have extended the State of Emergency related to this weather event by an additional 24 hours.I continue to urge all Georgians to be weather aware and prepared. https://t.co/P4yDG7kkKe pic.twitter.com/FnxmbeEhHG 12:11 p.m. The Vinings branch of the Cobb County library is closed due to a burst sprinkler line. LIBRARY BRANCH CLOSEDThe Vinings Branch at 4290 Paces Ferry Rd will remain CLOSED.This weekend's frigid weather caused a sprinkler line to burst; it is not yet known how long repairs will take.  Library staff will work with those who have reserved books.https://t.co/slG1JcsVbB pic.twitter.com/ReAVV9URkO 12:10 p.m. Officials at Grady Memorial Hospital said parts of the hospital experienced some flooding, but remained fully operational. 12:05 p.m. A boil water advisory is in effect for parts of Haralson County due to low pressure. The advisory affects residents in the area east of Highway 27 and south of Highway 120. All customers who have experienced low water pressure are asked to boil their water for at least one minute to use for drinking, cooking, preparing baby food or any other consumption. 12:03 p.m. Officials with Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport said reduced water flow is having a minor impact on some concessionaires and repairs are underway. Flight operations have not been impacted. 🚨 Reduced water flow at ATL is having a minor impact on some concessionaires, repairs are underway. Flight operations have not been impacted. We remind travelers to monitor their airlines for current information. pic.twitter.com/O1er4q9ZGP 12:00 p.m. Officials with the Atlanta Watershed said they are working to address water interruptions and low water pressure in the City of Fairburn. Crews have not given an estimated time that repairs will be completed. Anyone experiencing an outage is asked to please call 311 and listen to all the prompts in order to reach a representative. 11:49 a.m. The City of Forest Park is distributing bottled water at the Forest Park Police Department as they city continues to have water issues. Cases will be distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis. 10:49 a.m. Triple Team Traffic says slushy and icy conditions are impacting drivers at Memorial Drive and Hambrick Road, Bethany Bend at Bethany Church Road and Highway 20 at Hightower Road. 10:44 a.m. Clayton County officials said they are working to find leaks in its water distribution system that has led to low pressure or no water service. “We are finding there are warehouses, businesses, schools, and churches that have been closed due to the holiday that have broken pipes that have gone unreported,” says General Manager H. Bernard Franks. “This results in major water loss for our system. If anyone owns or maintains a property that has been closed, we ask that they go to that property and check to make sure they do not have any broken pipes.” If someone has a leak, they should report the leak immediately at 770.960.5200 or via private message on our Facebook page @ClaytonCountyWater. Officials will provide an update on progress at 2 p.m. today. 10:37 a.m. The Georgia Department of Transportation said crews will be prepared to treat roads for any icy precipitation this afternoon and evening. GDOT advises drivers to check weather conditions before getting on the road. 10:15 a.m. Residents are reporting extreme flooding at Brightstone Senior retirement community in Lithonia. We have a photographer headed to the facility to learn more, for Channel 2 Action News at Noon. 9:56 a.m. Crews are responding to a water main break on Campbellton Road, according to Atlanta Watershed management. Water may be temporarily affected in the area.  [SIGN UP: WSB-TV Daily Headlines Newsletter] Please call 311 to report your water outage or low pressure. Due to the extremely cold weather, the phone lines have been very busy. Sorry for your inconvenience. Thank you! #ATLWatershed #DWMatWork 8 a.m. Clayton and Forsyth counties have issued boil water advisories due to low water pressure. Residents change holiday plans after pipes burst, flooding due to freezing temperatures  ©2022 Cox Media Group © 2024 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. 