eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 As of September 2023, the average value of a single-family home in the Chicago area was just over $370,000 — about $20,000 above the U.S. average.But in parts of the area, home prices soar far higher. In fact, in the region’s 10 most expensive ZIP codes, the average home value is double (or even triple) that of the national average.Here are the top 10 most expensive postal codes in the Chicago area, according to data from the Zillow Home Value Index:10) River Forest, 60305With an average home value around $739,000, 60305 is the 10th most expensive ZIP code. The postal code encircles River Forest, a west suburb known for its historic residential architecture. Several homes here were designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, including the William Winslow House, the first building independently commissioned by the famous architect.9) Lincoln Park, Chicago, 60614One of the priciest ZIP codes in Chicagoland and most expensive in city limits is 60614. The ZIP code covers the Lincoln Park neighborhood, which boasts beautiful parks and green spaces, boutique shops and award-winning restaurants, and a number of reputable schools. Mixed throughout the urban landscape are tree-lined streets with classic Chicago greystones, modern mansions and Victorian cottages. But in such a desirable neighborhood, the real estate is steep: The average single-family home in Lincoln Park is valued at $813,000.8) Wilmette, 60091One of Chicago’s more populated suburban ZIP codes is 60091 in Wilmette. Just north of Evanston, along the North Shore of Lake Michigan, Wilmette features a beautiful shoreline with beaches and a boat-filled harbor, a vibrant urban forest, quaint village center and, perhaps most notably, the Baha’i House of Worship. Here homes have an estimated value of $852,000 on average, and with more business and housing developments coming this year, this number is trending upward.7) Oak Brook, 60523In 60523, the average home value is $904,000. The ZIP code, which encompasses Oak Brook, a west suburb about a 30-minute drive from downtown Chicago, maintains some of the priciest real estate in DuPage County. In September, a seven-bedroom brick mansion in Oak Brook was listed at nearly $12 million, a record asking price for the village.6) Golf, 60029A relatively small ZIP code in Cook County, 60029 covers the village of Golf. Nestled between several golf courses, the north suburb is the second smallest municipality in Cook County, with a population of about 500, according to the 2020 census. Though Golf may be small, the homes here are mighty, averaging just under $1 million.

5) Lake Forest, 60045Rounding out the top five is 60045, which covers Lake Forest. Located in Lake County, Lake Forest is a far North Shore suburb, about 32 miles from downtown Chicago. Like River Forest, this city is recognized for its stunning residential buildings designed by famous architects such as David Adler, Howard Van Doren Shaw and Frank Lloyd Wright. With a strong real estate market, the average home value tops $1.01 million.4) Hinsdale, 60521Spanning the border of Cook and DuPage counties is 60521, the postal code for Hinsdale. In this west suburb, the average value of a single-family home is $1.04 million. It’s the most expensive ZIP code in DuPage County, with homes famous for being owned by professional athletes, head coaches, CEOs and congressmen.3) Glencoe, 60022The third most expensive ZIP code in the Chicago area is in Glencoe. Located just within the northeastern bounds of Cook County, Glencoe is another North Shore suburb with a high ticket price, home values averaging $1.24 million. Here you can find the Chicago Botanic Garden, the acclaimed Writers Theatre, a bustling business district and several parks, golf courses and outdoor attractions.2) Winnetka, 60093Just south of Glencoe is 60093. The postal code that covers Winnetka has soaring home values, averaging $1.31 million. The area is known for its lakefront bluffs, mega mansions and highly sought-after beach real estate along Lake Michigan. Throughout the years, many celebrities and newsmakers have called Winnetka home, including Golden Age movie star Rock Hudson, “NCIS: Los Angeles” actor Chris O’Donnell, former Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner, late Chicago Blackhawks owner Rocky Wirtz and billionaire businessman Justin Ishbia.1) Kenilworth, 60043Topping them all and taking the crown for the most expensive ZIP code in the Chicago area is 60043, home to the suburb of Kenilworth. Bordered by two other lavish North Shore communities — Winnetka to the north and Wilmette to the south — the village of Kenilworth distinguishes itself from the others with eye-popping price tags on residential properties. Here the average home value is a whopping $1.65 million, more than four times the national average.Browse the table to see the most expensive postal codes in the Chicago area. But in parts of the area, home prices soar far higher. In fact, in the region’s 10 most expensive ZIP codes, the average home value is double (or even triple) that of the national average. Here are the top 10 most expensive postal codes in the Chicago area, according to data from the Zillow Home Value Index: With an average home value around $739,000, 60305 is the 10th most expensive ZIP code. The postal code encircles River Forest, a west suburb known for its historic residential architecture. Several homes here were designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, including the William Winslow House, the first building independently commissioned by the famous architect. One of the priciest ZIP codes in Chicagoland and most expensive in city limits is 60614. The ZIP code covers the Lincoln Park neighborhood, which boasts beautiful parks and green spaces, boutique shops and award-winning restaurants, and a number of reputable schools. Mixed throughout the urban landscape are tree-lined streets with classic Chicago greystones, modern mansions and Victorian cottages. But in such a desirable neighborhood, the real estate is steep: The average single-family home in Lincoln Park is valued at $813,000. One of Chicago’s more populated suburban ZIP codes is 60091 in Wilmette. Just north of Evanston, along the North Shore of Lake Michigan, Wilmette features a beautiful shoreline with beaches and a boat-filled harbor, a vibrant urban forest, quaint village center and, perhaps most notably, the Baha’i House of Worship. Here homes have an estimated value of $852,000 on average, and with more business and housing developments coming this year, this number is trending upward. In 60523, the average home value is $904,000. The ZIP code, which encompasses Oak Brook, a west suburb about a 30-minute drive from downtown Chicago, maintains some of the priciest real estate in DuPage County. In September, a seven-bedroom brick mansion in Oak Brook was listed at nearly $12 million, a record asking price for the village. A relatively small ZIP code in Cook County, 60029 covers the village of Golf. Nestled between several golf courses, the north suburb is the second smallest municipality in Cook County, with a population of about 500, according to the 2020 census. Though Golf may be small, the homes here are mighty, averaging just under $1 million. Rounding out the top five is 60045, which covers Lake Forest. Located in Lake County, Lake Forest is a far North Shore suburb, about 32 miles from downtown Chicago. Like River Forest, this city is recognized for its stunning residential buildings designed by famous architects such as David Adler, Howard Van Doren Shaw and Frank Lloyd Wright. With a strong real estate market, the average home value tops $1.01 million. Spanning the border of Cook and DuPage counties is 60521, the postal code for Hinsdale. In this west suburb, the average value of a single-family home is $1.04 million. It’s the most expensive ZIP code in DuPage County, with homes famous for being owned by professional athletes, head coaches, CEOs and congressmen. The third most expensive ZIP code in the Chicago area is in Glencoe. Located just within the northeastern bounds of Cook County, Glencoe is another North Shore suburb with a high ticket price, home values averaging $1.24 million. Here you can find the Chicago Botanic Garden, the acclaimed Writers Theatre, a bustling business district and several parks, golf courses and outdoor attractions. Just south of Glencoe is 60093. The postal code that covers Winnetka has soaring home values, averaging $1.31 million. The area is known for its lakefront bluffs, mega mansions and highly sought-after beach real estate along Lake Michigan. Throughout the years, many celebrities and newsmakers have called Winnetka home, including Golden Age movie star Rock Hudson, “NCIS: Los Angeles” actor Chris O’Donnell, former Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner, late Chicago Blackhawks owner Rocky Wirtz and billionaire businessman Justin Ishbia. Topping them all and taking the crown for the most expensive ZIP code in the Chicago area is 60043, home to the suburb of Kenilworth. Bordered by two other lavish North Shore communities — Winnetka to the north and Wilmette to the south — the village of Kenilworth distinguishes itself from the others with eye-popping price tags on residential properties. Here the average home value is a whopping $1.65 million, more than four times the national average. Browse the table to see the most expensive postal codes in the Chicago area. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune