The Hibees assistant manager knows the capital club are in a good position with their destiny in their own hands ahead of the trip to face St Johnstone as they look to secure a spot in the top half. Join your fellow Hibees and subscribe to the Football Scotland Hibs FC newsletter now  We have more newsletters Join your fellow Hibees and subscribe to the Football Scotland Hibs FC newsletter now  We have more newsletters Jamie McAllister has opened up on the 'zip' in Hibs' training preparations as he urged his troops to go and secure top six football. The Hibees assistant manager knows the capital club are in a good position with their destiny in their own hands ahead of the trip to face St Johnstone at McDiarmid Park after Kevin Nisbet's strike secured the derby bragging rights and a huge three points with victory over Hearts at Easter Road. The men from Leith will carry a huge support of 3,000 fans to Perth and Lee Johnson's No2 has urged the Hibs players to give them something to sing about after describing the feeling after the capital derby triumph when 'Sunshine on Leith' was belted out as 'incredible'. Speaking ahead of what could prove to be a dramatic afternoon, he said: “We’re in a good position and it’s in our hands. It’s the final game before the split, so it’s up to us. READ MORE: Hibs' fight for top six examined as all scenarios explored ahead of big Premiership weekend  Sign up to Edinburgh Live newsletters for more headlines straight to your inbox “We have to focus on our game plan, what we did well last week, and make sure we take that into the game against St Johnstone. “There’s been a zip in training after the Derby win, but we have to stay grounded, nothing is complete yet. We have to finish the first task (of achieving top six) by beating St Johnstone on Saturday. There’s three big points that we need to go and win.” On the huge following flocking to McDiarmid Park, he added: “The 3,000 will carry a huge voice like they did against Hearts the other day. I mean that feeling after the game and then when Sunshine On Leith came on at the end was just incredible. “We have to take that and use that and give the fans something to sing about at St Johnstone. 3,000 is a great support and we’ve got to do all we can to win the game.” READ NEXT:  - Hibs 1 Hearts 0 as Kevin Nisbet steps up, top six destiny in own hands - 3 things we learned   - Lee Johnson urges Hibs players not to make derby victory a 'one-off' as Euro hopes handed big boost   - Steven Naismith issues Michael Smith update as Hearts interim boss blames lack of creativity for derby defeat   - Hibs 1 Hearts 0 as Jambos' poor run continues, third place slipping away - 3 things we learned  - Lee Johnson in Celtic and Rangers 'Brucie bonus' assessment as he reveals Robbie Neilson chat plan 