What started as a small farming and milling town of 25 is now ranked the second hottest zip code in the country for home buyers. What started as a small farming and milling town of 25 is now ranked the second hottest zip code in the country for home buyers. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. What started as a small farming and milling town of 25 is now ranked the second hottest zip code in the country for home buyers. A ZIP code in Oklahoma was ranked as one of the most popular places in the country for people looking to buy a home. What started as a small farming and milling town of 25 is now ranked the second hottest ZIP code in the country for home buyers. "We just have that feeling of family, so I get why people want to live here," said Yukon Mayor Shelli Selby. ZIP code 73099 in Yukon takes the number two spot for most sought-after cities for home buyers in 2022, according to OpenDoor. The real estate platform said across their markets, Yukon continues to draw people in with their proximity to major employers while remaining family friendly.  “The more people you have here, the more money they’re going to spend. We’ve got great parks, we’ve got great facilities. It’s easy to get people to come to Yukon when it’s something they believe in,” said Pam Shelton, Yukon Chamber of Commerce CEO. Yukon city leaders said it’s their small-town feel, quality of schools and rich heritage that sets them apart from other cities. "We have a sense of community. I think that’s the number one. Yukon likes each other, we like our people," Selby said. You can’t forget about Route 66. "That’s another draw. We are a tourist town. We have Route 66 going right down Main Street. There are very few cities that have it on their main street that’s still very well-traveled," Selby said. Half of the top 10 ZIP codes are scattered throughout Texas but the winner goes to Clarksville, Tennessee, ranking just one spot ahead of Yukon. At a population of more than 27,000, Yukon said they expect to keep on growing.  "I moved here 33 years ago and when I moved here it was a small town. We’d have to go to OKC to get a lot of things and in that 33 years, I do everything Yukon. I shop local and find all my needs met right here in town," Selby said. Top Headlines Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.