The new gravity-powered rollercoaster at Penrhyn Quarry in Bethesda is the adventure firm's 19th attraction in Wales and 27th in total The best stories from across Gwynedd We have more newsletters The best stories from across Gwynedd We have more newsletters Most of us have enjoyed a quick thrill-ride on a rollercoaster at some time in our lives and arguably, if you've been on one you know pretty much what to expect. Dizzying heights, sudden drops, twists, turns, chicanes and loop-de-loops - and all of this at very, very high speeds.  All in all, pretty heart pounding stuff. So it's just as well you're strapped safely into your seat in a cart on a rolling track right? Well, what if you weren't?  No, this isn't the basis of some lucid stress dream. Start thinking about a rollercoaster without the actual 'coaster' bit and you'll come somewhere close to imagining Zip World's latest thrill ride.  READ MORE: Gwynedd pub postpones 'major refurbishment' to stay open for the summer  The Aero Explorer - a gravity-powered solo rollercoaster, the adventure firm's 19th attraction in Wales and 27th in total - has just opened at Penrhyn Quarry in Bethesda and is definitely not one for those faint of heart or with a fear of heights. Then again, if you ticked both these boxes you probably wouldn't be choosing a place called 'Zip World' for a day out.  The focal point of the Aero Explorer ride is a huge tower - a gigantic structure that looks a bit like a metallic Leaning Tower of Pisa...if you squinted...on a dark day...after a few drinks...from afar...but anyway, hopefully you get the picture (sort of). Thrill seeking punters start their white-knuckle ride by being strapped into a harness and then clipped into an overhead rail at the bottom of the tower's staircase.  After a short jaunt up the stairs on slightly trembling legs, I arrived at the top of the spiral tower where another staff member gave me a final safety check, after which I was good to go. But the question was, go where?  In front of me lay a huge vista of nothingness and a dizzying and unbroken view of the historic slate quarry looming more than 100 feet below. After being reassured that this was actually the right way to 'enjoy' the Aero Explorer, I tentatively tiptoed the edge of a platform and, without looking at the drop, jumped off. It was a leap into the unknown. Legs dangling into thin air, I slid along the overhead rail which stretched away from this tower while clinging for dear life onto two ropes which lay at each side of me to 'steer'. Check out the video at the top of this story to see what it was like.  I breathed a big sigh of relief after planting my feet on the ground at the bottom. However, this was just the warm-up, a fairly easy slide along a gentle stretch of the rail to get used to the sensation.  I still had most of the 400-metre long spiral suspension track to take on - and boy did the rest of it send my pulse racing. I walked up a path spiralling around the second structure to another platform ready for the second leg and was greeted by three little stepping stones leading out again onto sheer thin air.  After a second leap of faith I was airborne. This new stretch started deceptively smoothly, with some gentle too-ing and fro-ing along the way. But just a couple of jarringly sharp turns later and my equilibrium was utterly shattered.  Reaching speeds of around 30mph (which definitely feels a lot faster than it sounds) while whizzing 50 metres over the manmade lake below - the sensation was like being tipped violently out of bed. Gliding along, I was reminded of a quote uttered by the sinister Mr White to 007 in the James Bond film Spectre: "You're like a kite, dancing in a hurricane, Mr Bond." Granted, I looked more like Jenny Bond than James flying along that track but nevertheless, it was a thrilling special agent style experience that left me both shaken and stirred. Teeth clenched, I gripped the ropes tightly and enjoyed the ride. After gliding to a halt at the final landing pad, my nerves had the chance to settle and by the time I tucked into my flapjack and a cup of tea, my adrenaline levels had normalised enough for me to collect my thoughts.  If you're a fan of rollercoasters and have been on a few, you might have experienced that sinking feeling of coming off a ride and thinking 'was that it?' I for one did not get that experience here - quite the opposite in fact.  The Aero Explorer is an absolutely thrilling jaunt that will leave your heart in your mouth, send your pulse skyrocketing and make you feel as if you were truly flying. And one of the best things about it, apart from the sheer adrenaline rush of course, is the view down to the mineral-blue water in the quarry lake below - just be sure to bring along a head for heights and keep your eyes open for long enough to enjoy the scenery!  * Aero Explorer at Zip World, Penrhyn Quarry, Bethesda officially opened to the public on Saturday, May 27. Admission is £22 for everyone and you must be between 1.25 metres and 1.87 metres tall. READ NEXT:    Police issue update on death of man in A55 crash near Britannia Bridge     Every Betsi manager named in devastating report should be 'suspended' and new chief should call cops in     The 'unreal' sight that greeted grieving brothers paying homage in Snowdonia     Family pays tribute to 48-year-old man as his brother is charged with his murder     Campervan empties 'horrible grey waste' near World Heritage site at North Wales beauty spot   