Google DeepMind researchers have finally found a way to make life coaching even worse: infuse it with generative AI. According to internal documents obtained by The New York Times reports, Google and the Google-owned DeepMind AI lab are working with "generative AI to perform at least 21 different types of personal and professional tasks." And among those tasks, apparently, is an effort to use generative AI to build a "life advice" tool. You know, because an inhuman AI model knows everything there is to know about navigating the complexities of mortal human existence. As the NYT points out, the news of the effort notably comes months after AI safety experts at Google said, back in just December, that users of AI systems could suffer "diminished health and well-being" and a "loss of agency" as the result of taking AI-spun life advice. The Google chatbot Bard, meanwhile, is barred from providing legal, financial, or medical advice to its users. But now, not even a year later, Google is looking like it's tempted to throw its previous caution — and safety research — to the wind. There's an AI-sized hole in the life coaching market, it seems, and the longtime search giant is hoping to fill it — even though the ethics feel murky at best. Per the NYT's reporting, researchers at the DeepMind-contracted firm Scale AI have been working to test the project, and have assembled large teams of workers — including more than 100 experts with doctorates in various fields — to do so. The NYT was also privy to an example of the types of questions that Google believes its AI might be helpful with, including a pressing query about destination wedding etiquette. Legitimately challenging stuff, in other words. Elsewhere, according to the report, Google is also working on a tutoring tool, in addition to a planner of sorts with the ability to create things like budgets, meal plans, and workout guides. According to the NYT, Google has yet to decide whether it'll deploy any of these tools. And for its part, Google DeepMind defended the ongoing effort, noting that its evaluation process is a "critical step in building safe and helpful technology," and that "at any time," there "are many such evaluations ongoing." To be fair, it's not terribly surprising to see Google go this route. Almost every major tech company has been working to break through with a truly advanced, comprehensive AI assistant for some time, and humanity has already automated ourselves halfway into oblivion, anyway. Whether it's healthy or not, making real-life choices from unreal, human-mimicking AI programs feels like the only logical next evolution for our automation-addicted lives. More on Google AI: Google’s Lead AI Guy Says AI Will Be Amazing, Unless It Kills Us New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.