Marc Benioff showed up 15 minutes late to an all-company meeting the day after announcing layoffs. "Did I miss something?" Benioff asked after the call's late start, the Times of London reported. Insider had previously reported that Salesforce cofounder Parker Harris apologized for the meeting's delay. Marc Benioff, the Salesforce co-CEO, showed up over 15 minutes late to a company-wide meeting on January 5, the day after the company announced it would be laying-off around 10% of its global staff. According to a report from Insider's Ashley Stewart and Ellen Thomas, Benioff was around 18 minutes late for the meeting, which was scheduled for 10:00 a.m. PT on Thursday, January 5. After arriving at the meeting, Benioff then joked, according to the Times of London: "Did I miss something?" Insider previously reported that after Salesforce cofounder Parker Harris apologized for the meeting's late start, Benioff asked: "Are we delayed?"  One person on the call told The Times: "We knew more [layoffs] were coming, so we were all there to find out if we would still have jobs." "It was so inappropriate," they added. "Employees were very, very upset." Insider earlier reported that Benioff had compared the layoffs to death, and staff had expressed anger that he was dodging questions during a town-hall meeting. Benioff also admonished employees for leaking messages to the press, and shared a YouTube link to a joke from the 2004 movie "Meet the Fockers" about having a "circle of trust," Insider reported. A day earlier, Salesforce announced it was laying-off 10% of its staff. No specific number of staff being laid-off was given, but according to Salesforce's website it employed around 79,000 people globally as of December 2022, meaning the layoffs will likely impact close to 8,000 people. It came amid a spate of layoffs in the industry, with Amazon, Meta, and Twitter among the other companies who have cut their workforce over the last few months. Over the first 15 days of this year, an average of 1,600 tech workers were laid off every day. In an email to staff, Benioff said: "As our revenue accelerated through the pandemic, we hired too many people leading into this economic downturn we're now facing, and I take responsibility for that." The company is also reportedly considering laying-off a further 10% of staff depending on financial performance. Salesforce has completed more than $50 billion worth of acquisitions since 2018, with $27.7 billion spent on the loss-making messaging platform Slack in 2021. Stewart Butterfield, the Slack cofounder, then quit the company, along with a further two executives. Salesforce did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment, sent outside US working hours. Correction: January 16, 2023 — An earlier headline for this story incorrectly described the timing of the meeting where Marc Benioff was said to have joked "Did I miss something?" The meeting happened after Salesforce had announced mass layoffs, but it is unclear how many employees had actually been laid off by the time of the meeting. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.