Sergey Nivens - Fotolia Analyst Gartner has projected that worldwide IT spending will total $4.6tn in 2023, an increase of 5.5% from 2022. Its latest forecast shows that despite continued global economic turbulence, all regions worldwide are set to achieve IT spending growth in 2023. According to John-David Lovelock, distinguished vice-president and analyst at Gartner, the economic slowdown has not affected digitisation initiatives significantly: “IT spending will remain strong, even as many countries are projected to have near-flat gross domestic product (GDP) growth and high inflation in 2023. “Prioritisation will be critical as CIOs look to optimise spend while using digital technology to transform the company’s value proposition, revenue and client interactions.” Gartner believes that as organisations navigate continued economic turbulence, the split of technologies being maintained versus those driving the business is apparent in their position relative to overall average IT spending growth. Lovelock added: “There is sufficient spending within datacentre markets to maintain existing on-premise datacentres, but new spending has shifted to cloud options, as reflected in the growth in IT services.” Its latest forecast shows that businesses will prioritise spending on software in a bid to capture competitive advantages through increased productivity, automation and other software-driven transformation initiatives. Software spending grew 8.8% in 2022 to $794bn. By 2024, spending on software is forecast to hit $1tn. The Gartner forecast shows spending on devices will decline nearly 5% in 2023, as consumers defer device purchases due to declining purchasing power and a lack of incentive to buy. It has also predicted an IT services growth trajectory through 2024, largely driven by the infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) market. which is projected to reach over 30% growth this year. Spending on IT services is expected to grow from $1.25tn in 2022 to $1.5tn by 2024. According to Gartner, for the first time, price is a key driver of increased spend for cloud services segments, rather than just increased usage. While there have been job losses across the tech sector, Gartner warned that there is still a critical shortage of skilled IT labour. The demand for tech talent greatly outstrips the supply, which, it predicted, would continue until at least 2026 based on forecast IT spend. “Tech layoffs do not mean that the IT talent shortage is over,” said Lovelock. “IT spending on internal services is slowing in all industries, and businesses are not keep up with wage rate increases. As a result, businesses will spend more money to retain fewer staff and will turn to IT services firms to fill in the gaps.” The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Following a number of high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
