 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 NEXT wins with low-cost coverage and an easy application process 
With small business, you never know when certain kinds of crises could hit. Will a customer sue your business? Will a natural disaster wipe out your facilities? A good small business policy could save you thousands of dollars or more if you ever face such unhappy circumstances.
 
After extensive research, our experts found that Next is the best business insurance company overall because it offers a wide range of policy types and an easy online application process that lets you sign up in about 10 minutes.
 
To choose the best commercial insurance companies for small businesses, we evaluated 19 national and regional insurers on 53 criteria in the following categories: cost, quote and application experience, customer satisfaction, coverage, accessibility, and financial stability.
 Use an insurance marketplace like Insureon to get matched to the best provider for your business. Next Insurance 
Next provides a way to get a wide range of affordable business insurance coverages entirely online in about 10 minutes. But you also have the option of speaking with a U.S.-based advisor in your area.
 Offers a live certificate of insurance for easy sharing Allows you to customize your business insurance policy with a variety of coverages 100% online quote and application with assistance available Fewer specialized coverages than some other companies 
Next offers a wide array of commercial insurance coverage types, which can be purchased online for same-day coverage. Next offers a business owner’s policy (general liability insurance and commercial property insurance), commercial auto insurance, workers' compensation coverage, professional liability insurance, tools & equipment insurance, and more.
 
The company also offers a variety of digital policy management tools, including the ability to share a live certificate of insurance and quickly add an additional insured, free of charge. Monthly payments are available, and eligible customers can save up to 25% with discounts.
 
Next Insurance has an A- (Excellent) financial strength rating with AM Best. However, other companies offer more enhancements and specialized coverages.
 
Based in Palo Alto, California, Next was founded in 2016 and uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to streamline the insurance buying process. In November 2023, it raised $265 million in funding from Allstate and Allianz X—one of the largest rounds of funding raised in the insuretech industry that year, according to Crunchbase. The deals include a strategic partnership with Allstate to develop new commercial auto insurance products.
 Hiscox 
Hiscox offers several solutions for freelancers that make the company our top pick for the best independent contractor insurance among small commercial insurance providers.
 Customization options for independent contractors Monthly payments with no fees Offers short-term liability insurance for business 100% online quote and application with assistance available Higher than expected number of complaints with the NAIC 
Hiscox offers a straightforward business owner’s policy (BOP) that can be customized with business interruption insurance, electronic data loss insurance, professional liability insurance, and more.
 
You can also choose standalone policies for professional liability and general liability insurance, and you can get either coverage on demand for short-term projects. Plus, Hiscox allows you to pay for your business insurance policy in monthly payments, which can help freelancers better manage their cash flow. 
 
Hiscox has an A (Excellent) rating with AM Best, indicating excellent financial strength; however, the company received somewhat more complaints than expected over the last three years given its size. This indicates that Hiscox may have issues with customer satisfaction, although the company did receive fewer complaints each year, indicating improvement. BOPs start at around $500 per year.
 
You can get a business insurance quote online or speak with an agent by phone. You can also file claims online or by phone. Claims services can be accessed online 24/7.
 
With roots dating back to 1901, Hiscox USA is based in Atlanta. It is part of the Hiscox Group, an international company with more than 3.000 employees.
 Huckleberry 
Huckleberry offers a suite of essential restaurant insurance and food business insurance coverages that are suitable for brick-and-mortar restaurants, caterers, food trucks, and more.
 BOP policies underwritten by Markel and Chubb 100% online quote and application Wide range of customization options Doesn’t offer employee benefits packages 
Huckleberry, which is a broker that works with Chubb and Markel for its BOP policies, offers a restaurant endorsement as an add-on to its business owner’s policy. It’s a bundle of food-specific coverages that includes spoilage coverage, food contamination insurance, and ordinance or law equipment coverage, among others. Plus, you can add workers' comp, commercial auto, and liquor liability coverage to customize your business insurance policy as needed.
 
Most policies are underwritten by Markel or Chubb. Both companies have excellent financial strength ratings from AM Best. Like Next Insurance, Huckleberry offers an entirely online quote and application process that allows you to get coverage for your small business quickly. And you can get a certificate of insurance online to share with clients in less than a minute.
 
Huckleberry’s BOP includes general liability, commercial property, and business interruption insurance at a reasonable price. For example, a BOP for a food truck starts at $42 per month.
 
Founded in 2017 in San Francisco, Huckleberry is now owned by payroll company Paychex, which operates the Paychex Insurance Agency.
 biBERK 
biBERK has an A++ (Superior) financial strength rating from AM Best, the highest rating available, offers a wide range of industry-specific coverages, and is backed by Berkshire Hathaway.
 Backed by Berkshire Hathaway Group Online quote and application Excellent customer service reviews Dozens of endorsements to enhance a BOP Doesn’t offer group employee benefits 
biBERK Business Insurance is part of Berkshire Hathaway Group, which has decades of experience in the commercial insurance industry. BiBerk’s underwriters are all rated A++ (Superior) by AM Best, indicating a superior ability to meet financial obligations to policyholders.
 
What’s more, you can get a quote and apply to receive coverage instantly, entirely online. Policyholders have great things to say about the service and coverage on third-party websites.
 
biBERK can meet the needs of most small businesses, offering many commercial insurance options, such as business owner’s policies, commercial auto insurance, workers' compensation insurance, umbrella insurance, professional liability insurance, and general liability policies. You can add risk-specific endorsements and industry endorsements to your business owner’s policy, such as liquor liability and cyber liability coverage as well. BiBerk BOPs start at about $500 per year.
 
BiBerk was founded in 2015 and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.
 Thimble Insurance 
Thimble offers on-demand policies for general liability insurance starting at $17 per month.
 Offers monthly and on-demand coverage options Liability policies start at $17 per month Offers event insurance Occurrence-based policies Excellent reviews on Trustpilot Doesn’t offer commercial auto insurance 
Thimble is a great option for small businesses that need quick, temporary, affordable small business insurance, particularly those looking to purchase coverage for an event or on an on-demand basis. The company’s business owner’s policy includes general liability, commercial property insurance, and business interruption insurance, and you can also add professional liability, workers' compensation, and business equipment protection. 
 
Customers on Trustpilot have great things to say about the ease of the application process. You can get a quote and purchase coverage online or in the app. Several reviews also pointed out that Thimble’s customer service team was communicative and responded quickly.
 
Thimble works with several different insurance companies, each of which has an AM Best rating of at least A- (Excellent). Thimble policies are occurrence-based, which provides more robust coverage than claims-made policies. You’re covered for incidents that occurred while your business insurance policy was in force, even if you’ve since canceled it.
 
Thimble, which has been selling small business insurance coverage since 2018, was bought by Arch Insurance in April 2023. Thimble is based in New York City.
 The Hartford 
As one of the largest providers of workers' compensation insurance in the country, The Hartford has a huge provider network and pay-as-you-go billing that helps you avoid overpaying.
 Pay-as-you-go billing options Access to a network of over 1 million providers 2nd-highest financial strength rating Start claims online Poor J.D. Power ranking 
The Hartford is a top pick among small business insurance providers for the best workers' compensation insurance. The company provides a large network of doctors and nurse case managers to help your employees get healthy, and pay-as-you-go billing options.
 
When you choose to pay as you go, your premiums are based on actual payroll rather than estimates, which prevents overpayment. The Hartford also allows you to easily start a claim online. What's more, the company uses data analytics to provide injured workers with a toolkit to aid in faster recovery. 
 
The insurer has an A+ (Superior) financial strength rating from AM Best; however, the company was ranked below average in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study.
 
The Harford is based in Hartford, Connecticut, and was founded in 1810.
 Chubb 
Chubb is ideal for larger small businesses because it supports businesses with revenue up to $30 million and offers a very wide range of coverage options.
 Supports businesses with up to $30 million in revenue Few complaints relative to Chubb’s market share Highest financial strength rating Many enhancements to customize a BOP  Must speak with an insurance agent to start your business insurance policy 
Chubb is one of the largest carriers (by annual premiums) of commercial insurance and has a well-regarded small business owner's policy. The company has relatively high revenue limits for its small commercial business owner's policies and offers a wide array of customized endorsements for a broad range of industries.
 
You can enhance your business owner’s policy with electronic data liability coverage, professional liability insurance, a variety of property add-ons, crime coverage, equipment breakdown coverage, earthquake coverage (in certain states), and more. Workers' compensation, umbrella, commercial auto, and cyber risk coverages are also available.
 
Chubb can offer an instant quote, and policies are generated instantly, but you will need to speak with an insurance agent to start your coverage.
 
Chubb has an A++ (Superior) financial strength rating from AM Best and is ranked second for customer satisfaction in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study.
 
Chubb Corporation dates its origins back to 1882. Chubb Insurance Group today is based in Warren, New Jersey.
 State Farm 
State Farm is one of the top-ranked companies for customer satisfaction in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study and offers coverage for virtually any industry.
 Highest financial strength rating Customizable business owner’s policies with many coverage options Must speak with an insurance agent to start your business insurance policy 
State Farm has been meeting the needs of small businesses since 1935 and has superior ratings. The company has an B financial strength rating with AM Best.
 
It's also ranked second in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study. NAIC data reveals that State Farm has had just slightly fewer complaints than expected for its commercial liability policies. But, you’ll need to talk to an insurance agent to get coverage. Some business owners may prefer handling the entire transaction online.
 
The company’s BOP covers commercial property insurance and general liability insurance, plus loss of income, equipment breakdown, and money and securities protection at no extra charge.
 
You can add professional liability to the package as well. In addition, you can get commercial auto coverage, workers' compensation insurance, and many more coverages. You can also work with State Farm to provide benefits for your employees, such as group life, disability, and health insurance.
 
State Farm was founded in 1922 in Bloomington, Illinois.
 
The size of your small business may dictate the type of business insurance you need and which insurance company is best for you. For a low-cost BOP and quick online coverage, compare quotes from Next, Huckleberry, and BiBerk. Independent contractors and event workers will be best served by Hiscox or Thimble. Consider The Hartford and BiBerk if you’re most concerned with workers' compensation. If you need extensive coverage, including an employee benefits package, you’ll be best served by companies like State Farm and Chubb. 
 
Keep in mind that you may have specialized coverage needs for your industry that a standard business owner’s policy doesn’t include. Some companies offer more enhancements than others. When narrowing down your options, ensure you choose a provider that protects your business from common risks in your industry. 
 
Business insurance, sometimes called commercial insurance, covers your business's assets and income in case of unexpected events during normal business operations, such as lawsuits, natural disasters, or accidents. There are many types of business insurance products, including coverage for property damage, legal liability, and employee-related risks, among others. A business owner's policy (BOP) includes general liability coverage, business property coverage, and business interruption coverage.
 
You may also want to add other kinds of coverage such as for commercial cars, errors and omissions, and key employees.
 
Commercial insurance renewal rates rose in the second quarter for all lines except workers' compensation. The Q2 2024 Ivans Index showed the following year-over-year changes:
 
In general, a business owner's policy starts at $300 to $500 a year, according to Investopedia's research into six insurers. The lowest premiums for professional liability also ranged from $300 to $500, and premiums for general liability insurance started at $200 to $400.
 
The price of a commercial insurance policy depends on several factors:
 
Whether your business needs insurance depends on the nature and size of your operations and the laws in your state. Most businesses need general liability insurance to protect themselves from third-party bodily injury or property damage claims. You should consider buying liability coverage if you manufacture or sell products, invite customers to your premises, or provide services at customers’ locations. 
 
If your business owns buildings or other property that you use in your operations, you should consider buying property insurance. A commercial property policy protects your business against physical damage to property by a fire or other covered peril. It may also cover income you lose as a result of the physical damage. 
 
Do you use cars or trucks in your business? If so, state law may require you to buy auto liability insurance. You’ll need to insure the vehicles under a commercial (not personal) auto policy. If you employ workers, state laws may require you to buy workers’ compensation insurance. And if your business involves offering advice or providing a professional service, you should consider buying professional liability insurance. Also called errors and omissions insurance, professional liability insurance covers third-party claims against your business for financial losses resulting from malpractice, errors, or mistakes you allegedly made while performing a professional service.
 
While the cost of insurance for a small business may seem high, the cost of a big lawsuit could dwarf those expenses. So be sure to weigh those risks when deciding whether you need coverage or not.
 “If you’ve just started a business and are wondering about insurance, don’t assume your homeowners or renter’s policy will cover your business activities—even if you have a home-based business. Check with your insurer. If you employ workers, you’ll probably need to buy workers' compensation insurance. You should also consider general liability insurance, which protects your business from claims involving slip-and-falls and other common workplace accidents. As your business grows and accumulates assets, you may need additional coverages like commercial property and business auto insurance.” —Marianne Bonner, Investopedia insurance expert, consultant, and former commercial insurance underwriter 
Here’s a step-by-step process for choosing the best insurance company for your small business:
 
Investopedia launched in 1999, and has been helping readers find the best small business insurance since 2020. We conduct extensive research to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to ensure you make the right decisions for your needs.
 Generally, business insurance is optional unless it’s required by state law or the terms of a contract. For example, many states require workers’ compensation insurance or auto liability insurance if your company owns vehicles you use for business. Or a business contract you sign may require certain insurance. Say you own an electrical contracting business. You sign a deal with a general contractor in which you agree to install electrical panels in a building the contractor is constructing. The contract requires you to have general liability, auto liability, and workers' compensation insurance in place before you begin any work. A business owner’s policy includes general liability insurance, commercial property insurance, and, often, business interruption insurance. General liability insurance covers lawsuits when your business is responsible for harming a third party. Commercial property insurance covers damage to your building. Business interruption insurance helps replace business income after a covered loss. Small business insurance excludes anything that you don’t specifically buy coverage for. For example, if you buy a business owner’s policy, but it doesn’t specifically include business personal property coverage, you won’t get coverage for the items inside your office or warehouse after a loss. Also, some disasters that are not typically covered. For example, you’ll need an endorsement to cover earthquakes and flooding. Certain catastrophic events, like war, won’t be covered at all. Commercial policies also won’t cover a loss if it’s covered by another policy. Possibly. Your homeowners policy may not be enough to cover your business equipment, inventory, or data, so you may need an endorsement on your homeowners policy or a separate business property insurance policy. You'll also want a liability policy in case you're sued for damages caused by your products, services, or advice. And you may need business interruption insurance to cover losses from a natural disaster, theft, or equipment breakdown. Finally, if you have remote employees, you may need employers' liability insurance to cover you if they get injured, sick, or die because of their work. Yes, you need business insurance to protect your limited liability company (LLC) from lawsuits and property losses. Your personal assets are protected from lawsuits against your LLC, but that protection doesn’t extend to the LLC itself. Suppose a customer is injured on your premises and sues your LLC for compensation. If your business has no liability insurance, it will have to pay legal fees and any damages or settlements awarded by a court.  Your LLC may also be subject to property damage losses if it owns buildings, equipment, or other property that is damaged in a fire, say. Your LLC will have to use company assets to pay for repairs. You can protect your LLC from unexpected losses by purchasing general liability and commercial property insurance. Umbrella insurance provides extra liability coverage, extending the limits of other policies such as general business liability and commercial auto insurance. It provides an additional layer of security to those who are at risk of being sued for damages to other people's property or injuries caused to others in an accident. It also protects against libel, vandalism, slander, and invasion of privacy. Small business insurance premiums are generally tax-deductible if the insurance is considered "ordinary and necessary" for your business. This includes premiums for liability, commercial property, malpractice, workers' compensation (when required by law), commercial auto, business interruption, and overhead insurance. Life insurance for officers and employees if you aren't a beneficiary is also deductible. And if you're self-employed, you may be able to deduct premiums for health, dental, and qualified long-term care insurance for you, your spouse, and your dependents. We researched and reviewed 18 companies to find the best eight companies you see above on this list. The companies that didn't make it to our list didn't score as well as competitors on one or more of our criteria, including measures of quality, cost, coverage, and customer experience. These are the companies we researched: NEXT Insurance, Chubb Ltd., CoverWallet, Thimble, Nationwide, biBerk, Hiscox, AmTrust Financial, Huckleberry, Insureon, The Hartford, Farmers, Geico, Travelers, Progressive, CNA, Liberty Mutual, State Farm 
In order to compile our list of the best commercial insurance companies for small businesses, we developed a comprehensive methodology. To identify which companies and criteria to include in our review, we analyzed business and market insight databases, considered commercial insurance company market share, looked at search data from Google, and reviewed company product pages and agents' guides to assess important product features.  
 
With those findings in mind, we spent three months digging up information about 53 features on 19 insurance companies, including ratings for financial strength by AM Best, customer satisfaction rankings in the J.D. Power 2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study, and individual customer complaints reported to insurance state commissioners and recorded by the NAIC (National Association of Insurance Commissioners). We also considered nationwide availability; whether an online quote and application are available; and policy-specific features, including claim limits, cost, and coverage exclusions.
 
The criteria determine how easy it is to procure a small business insurance policy from the company, the quality of that policy relative to its cost, and how likely customers are to be satisfied with the purchase process and their experience as a policyholder. We ranked each company according to the following categories and weights:
 
Companies that make coverage widely available, have a streamlined quote and application process, offer robust features, and have strong ratings for financial stability and customer satisfaction topped our list. For more information, read our full small business insurance methodology.
 Next Insurance. "Business Insurance for 1300+ businesses." AM Best. "AM Best Assigns Credit Ratings to Next Insurance US Company." Crunchbase. "Small Biz Insurer Next Insurance Raises $265M." AM Best. "Hiscox Insurance Company Inc." NAIC. “Hiscox Insurance Company, Inc.” AM Best. "AM Best Affirms Credit Ratings of Chubb Limited and Its Subsidiaries." AM Best. "Markel Insurance Company." AM Best. "AM Best Affirms Credit Ratings of Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Insurance Company and Its Affiliates." Trustpilot. "biBerk Business Insurance." Trustpilot. "Thimble Reviews." Thimble. "Insurance Ratings." Arch Insurance. "Arch Insurance Acquires Thimble." Insurance Information Institute. "Facts + Statistics: Insurance Company Rankings | III." J.D. Power. “2023 U.S. Small Commercial Insurance Study.” Chubb. "Business Policy Insurance Policy." Insurance Information Institute. "Facts and Statistics: Commercial Lines" AM Best. "AM Best Affirms Credit Ratings of Chubb Limited and Its Subsidiaries." State Farm. "Product Growth." Businesswire. "AM Best Affirms Credit Ratings of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company and Its Subsidiaries." NAIC. “State Farm Fire & Cas Co National Complaint Index Report.” Applied Systems. "Ivans Index Q2 2024 Results Released." IRS. "Publication 535 (2022), Business Expenses."