Attend  Events Back our  campaigns Become a  volunteer Vote for  us Sign up for email  updates Work for  us Attend  Conference Become an  activist Become a  candidate Members'  Area Our  party Our  people Latest  news In your  community For a Fair Deal - Manifesto 2024 Our values Our campaigning victories Business Network Liberty Network The Future Fund Affiliated Organisations Diversity Groups International Details of current and historic appeals are available in the below table.   *Due to a sequencing error, Case 32(a) was not included within the referencing system however in chronological order is the next case received. It is in no way linked to Case 32. 
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
 The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk. 
                
                    
                    
                    We take accessibility and your data privacy seriously. Read our accessibility statement and cookie policy.
                
                 
Promoted by the Liberal Democrats, 1 Vincent Square, London SW1P 2PN.Website by Prater Raines.
 Promoted by the Liberal Democrats, 1 Vincent Square, London SW1P 2PN.Website by Prater Raines. 

 
                
                    Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
                    while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
                    to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
                    websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
                
            