
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)   
Proactive solutions needed in order to address the rise of GPT-powered plugins in online exam and certifications.  GPT-powered tools have now advanced to the point that the answers are prefilled the moment a multiple choice exam is opened, no matter the difficulty or topic.”  - Robert Day, CEO of Integrity AdvocateCANADA, August 17, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- Integrity Advocate is proud to publicly announce the release of its new exclusive functionality EXPOSE AI. Integrity Advocate has made a point of staying up-to-date with the latest Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) empowered Learning Management System (LMS) plugins and techniques. With Expose AI, organizations will have the support they need to maintain the integrity of their education and certification processes.
A few weeks ago, there were only a few GPT-powered LMS plugins available. However, as of this very moment, there are several dozen and more emerging every day. Among these, Github copilot, OnlineSchoolExploits, AnswersAI, ConchAI, Jasper, ChatSonic, Coursology, Hyperwrite, Transcript, Quillbot, and Monica, to name but a few. 
“GPT-powered tools have now advanced to the point that the answers are prefilled the moment a multiple choice exam is opened, no matter the difficulty or topic. The learner no longer needs to read or even understand the question's language," says Robert Day, CEO of Integrity Advocate.
Organizations who are counting on the LMS's to develop effective countermeasures will not be comforted to know LMS companies have no solutions to this threat. These plug-ins are ever-changing and are unlikely to be eradicated due to their concealed and ever changing characteristics. 
Users also do not need technical expertise to activate these GPT-enabled LMS plugins. These plugins are inexpensive, if not free, and automatically activate once installed. Once installed, these plugins become a constant source of suggested answers for all users. This not only compromises the integrity of the assessments but also undermines the purpose of online training and testing.
Now, without any technical effort by our clients, Expose AI can be incorporated into Integrity Advocate's wide array of monitoring options. 
Integrity Advocate is proud to offer a broad range of services that support everything from mobile devices to desktops. 
Integrity Advocate prides itself on an industry-leading record of less than 1% of users seeking support. 
Expose AI is exactly the solution needed to protect the integrity of your LMS delivered content. Contact Integrity Advocate today to learn more about their installation-free, online proctoring software.Robert Day
Integrity Advocate
 MENAFN17082023003118003196ID1106882060  Proactive solutions needed in order to address the rise of GPT-powered plugins in online exam and certifications. CANADA, August 17, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- Integrity Advocate is proud to publicly announce the release of its new exclusive functionality EXPOSE AI. Integrity Advocate has made a point of staying up-to-date with the latest Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) empowered Learning Management System (LMS) plugins and techniques. With Expose AI, organizations will have the support they need to maintain the integrity of their education and certification processes. A few weeks ago, there were only a few GPT-powered LMS plugins available. However, as of this very moment, there are several dozen and more emerging every day. Among these, Github copilot, OnlineSchoolExploits, AnswersAI, ConchAI, Jasper, ChatSonic, Coursology, Hyperwrite, Transcript, Quillbot, and Monica, to name but a few.  “GPT-powered tools have now advanced to the point that the answers are prefilled the moment a multiple choice exam is opened, no matter the difficulty or topic. The learner no longer needs to read or even understand the question's language," says Robert Day, CEO of Integrity Advocate. Organizations who are counting on the LMS's to develop effective countermeasures will not be comforted to know LMS companies have no solutions to this threat. These plug-ins are ever-changing and are unlikely to be eradicated due to their concealed and ever changing characteristics.  Users also do not need technical expertise to activate these GPT-enabled LMS plugins. These plugins are inexpensive, if not free, and automatically activate once installed. Once installed, these plugins become a constant source of suggested answers for all users. This not only compromises the integrity of the assessments but also undermines the purpose of online training and testing. Now, without any technical effort by our clients, Expose AI can be incorporated into Integrity Advocate's wide array of monitoring options.  Integrity Advocate is proud to offer a broad range of services that support everything from mobile devices to desktops.  Integrity Advocate prides itself on an industry-leading record of less than 1% of users seeking support.  Expose AI is exactly the solution needed to protect the integrity of your LMS delivered content. Contact Integrity Advocate today to learn more about their installation-free, online proctoring software. Robert Day
Integrity Advocate
 MENAFN17082023003118003196ID1106882060 MENAFN17082023003118003196ID1106882060 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN