AMARILLO'S #1 HIT MUSIC STATION So you wanna go on vacation, and you're going through all the different places you could go. When it comes to choosing a vacation destination, it all depends on what you're looking to do. Is it a beach you crave? Is sightseeing some big attractions on the list? Maybe it's history you're craving. There are a lot of places like that you could go to. With all that in mind, I ask this one question. Is Amarillo a place worth visiting? I guess it all depends on who you ask.  I decided it would be interesting to Google this exact question and see what some of the responses were. As expected, they were varying in degree from yes absolutely, to what in the world are you thinking? Here are a few of the responses I saw looking it up. I thought it was pretty interesting to see the extreme differences in responses. The first response came from an amateur historian according to their profile. As you can see, they list off several things here in Amarillo and Canyon that are unique to the area and worth visiting, whether you're just rolling through town or live here. You get such insight and feel for what the Panhandle is all about. I felt this was a very accurate representation of the city and area.  Our second entry mentions several of the same things from above, but then they brought in the Chicken Fried Steak in Amarillo, and food is definitely a big reason to stop in town. Amarillo really does have some great restaurants and different types of food, but I agree that the CFS here is something to indulge in. This is where we start to see the shift in recommendations. As you can see, the user is kind of asking why you would want to stop here, but still gives the Big Texan steak challenge a mention as a thing to do while you're in town.  And now we've come to our final entry in the "should I visit Amarillo sweepstakes". It seems this person lives here, and wouldn't recommend visiting OR living here for the myriad of reasons you can see above. They certainly didn't hold back on any aspect of the city. Sure, some of it could be true, and some of it not. That's the beauty of opinion. However, the way this person painted it made it sound like there isn't a place on Earth worse than Amarillo, and that might be a bit of a stretch.