




Aaryamann Shrivastava

FXStreet


 Over the last few days, Decentralised Finance (DeFi) chains have observed a growth in their Decentralised Exchange (DEX) protocols. This category of Dapps seems to be making a comeback. However, the threat to its dominance still looms in the form of staking protocols. Binance Smart Chain (BSC) stepped over Ethereum in terms of 24-hour volume on May 23, with BSC noting $2.1 billion in volume, while the biggest Defi chain only registered $780 million. The biggest proponent for BSC turned out to be PancakeSwap. The DEX contributes to nearly half of the total value locked (TVL) on BSC with a value of $2.52 billion, noting a 14.5% increase in the past 24 hours.  DeFi chains’ 24-hour volume But PancakeSwap was not the only DEX to note such a growth as another such exchange on Ethereum also marked a similar growth. Uniswap observed a 42% increase in the last day, although its TVL noted no significant change at $4.1 billion. Furthermore, despite contributing to the chain significantly, Ethereum’s trading volume stood at a low as the growth was undercut by losses from other protocols.   DEX protocols’ 24 hour change Decentralized Exchanges have noted much higher transaction volumes this month due to Centralised Exchanges (CEXes) losing volume. While in the previous month, CEX observed about $600 million in total traded volume, month to date, May has noted only $320 million. However, despite the stellar growth of DEXes, their domination in the DeFi market continues to be threatened by Liquid Staking protocols. The latter has closed in on DEXes in order to topple it from its top spot. In the span of a month, the difference between these two categories of protocols has reduced by 40% from $5 billion to $3 billion. At the time of writing, Liquid Staking protocols’ TVL came up to $17.9 billion, whereas DEXes TVL still stands at $20.8 billion.  DeFi market TVL distribution Thus DEXes might need to see some more interest from users in order to keep its dominance unchallenged in the DeFi market. Ethereum price, unbothered by BSC surpassing in terms of daily volume, noted an almost 2% rise on May 22, rising to trade at $1,850. The green candlestick came after nearly two weeks of consolidation, but investors have not lost their expectations of a rise to $2,000 soon. However, in order to make it to $2,000, ETH would first need to flip the $1,900 mark into a support floor. Coinciding with the 38.2% Fibonacci retracement of the downleg between $2,142 and $1,737, the altcoin needs to note another 2% rise to achieve the same. This would also turn the 50-day Exponential Moving Average (EMA) into a support level, further preventing any severe decline in price. If Ethereum price breaks out and rallies beyond $1,900, it will face some resistance at the 50% Fib level at $1,940.  ETH/USD 1-day chart Once this level is turned into a support level, too, the next target for Ethereum price would be $2,000. Reaching this would effectively undo the losses observed throughout the month caused by the 10% crash of early May. Nevertheless, investors should also be prepared for the price to turn around and decline in case bearishness comes back, which could bring ETH back to $1,800. 
Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page. 
If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet.
FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted.
The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice. 
 Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page.  If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet. FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted. The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice.  Bitcoin trades around $58,000 on Monday, down 0.7% on the day and extending the consolidation phase between $57,000 and $62,000 seen in the past ten days. From a technical perspective, the bearish thesis still prevails as BTC struggles to overcome key resistance levels and momentum indicators look weak.  Smart contract blockchain Solana (SOL), a key competitor for Ethereum,has noted a 150% increase in its stablecoin supply, largely driven by increasing DeFi opportunities, liquidity and lending protocols and expansion of projects from Ethereum ecosystem to Solana.  Vitalik Buterin, co-creator of Ethereum, the largest altcoin in the crypto ecosystem, moved ETH to a crypto mixer, early on Monday. The mixer is known to effectively prevent malicious actors and protect user privacy.    Dogecoin, the largest meme coin in the crypto ecosystem noted a surge in whale wallet holdings. Data from on-chain intelligence tracker IntoTheBlock show a 50% increase in the count of wallet addresses holding over 10 billion DOGE.  Bitcoin (BTC) trades above $58,000 on Friday after after testing and failing to overcome the resistance level around $62,000 earlier in the week. The risk-on mood returned to markets this week, Marathon Digital added 4,141 BTC worth $249 million to its holdings and the US SEC approved a MicroStrategy leveraged ETF, potentially giving investors more exposure to Bitcoin.  Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.