Friction between Sergio Perez and Max Verstappen is reportedly building. The Formula 1 season is off to a flying start, and we've already had some serious drama on the track. Sergio Perez secured his first victory of the 2023 season in the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, leaving his Red Bull teammate, Max Verstappen, trailing behind in second place. Perez's performance was nothing short of remarkable, especially considering he lost the lead to Fernando Alonso in the early stages of the race. But the Mexican driver quickly regained his position at the front of the pack, never looking back. Although the race was a triumph for Perez, the end was mired in controversy. Perez was poised to take the lead in the World Championship with a win and the fastest lap, but Verstappen had other ideas. Against team orders, Verstappen pushed for the extra point, putting his race in danger despite admitting to mechanical problems with his car. Perez was left in the dark about the situation, even after he took his place on the podium. Red Bull had assured him that he had the fastest lap, but Verstappen had actually snatched the extra point from under his nose. Needless to say, Perez wasn't happy. But Verstappen defended his actions, claiming he was just trying to salvage a weekend that had gone awry. It was a good team result, he argued, but he wasn't satisfied with finishing second. Meanwhile, Red Bull team principal, Christian Horner, did his best to put out the fire, insisting that both drivers had the same opportunity and that Perez knew Verstappen was going to make a push in the final lap. The dust has now settled, and Verstappen is sitting pretty at the top of the World Championship with 44 points, with Perez just one point behind. The next race is the Australian Grand Prix on April 2, and it promises to be another nail-biter. Will Verstappen maintain his lead, or will Perez pull off another upset? One thing is for sure: the battle between these two is just heating up. Lydia is the lead editor of F1 editorial. After following the sport for several years, she was finally able to attend the British Grand Prix in person in 2017. Since then, she's been addicted to not only the racing, but the atmosphere the fans bring to each event. She's a strong advocate for women in motorsport and a more diverse industry. 