In a shocking turn of events, a player from TitanFTW, 6Sense, found himself banned during a live match of Battlegrounds Mobile India Series (BGIS) 2023 Semi Finals. The live broadcast only revealed that “The player, T***,” had been banned in real-time for violating the User Agreement. Players from TitanFTW have revealed through Instagram story that it was 6Sense indeed who got banned. However, the players alleged that he was banned due to mass reporting. During the live broadcast BGIS 2023 Semi Final Day 2 Match 9, viewers were taken aback as a message appeared in the Kill Feed, stating that “The player, T***, has been banned in real-time for violating the User Agreement.” However, the broadcast did not reveal the full name of the player involved, leaving fans and fellow gamers in suspense. 6Sense himself took to his Instagram story to share a clip of the exact moment when he received the ban. The notification he received simply read, “Connection to server lost. Please check your internet connection before trying again.” In response to the ban, another player from TitanFTW, Shivam, weighed in with some startling claims on his Instagram story. He asserted that 6Sense had fallen victim to a mass report, which was linked to previous hacking allegations against the player. Shivam further emphasized that 6Sense was eager to prove his innocence and was willing to submit his mobile device for examination. To support his claims, Shivam shared a screenshot that indicated 6Sense’s account ban duration was only 10 minutes, which he claimed was a clear sign of a mass report-related ban.  It is not the first time BGIS 2023 has found itself in hacking-related controversy. Prior to this, Krafton India imposed two ban waves after Round 1 and Round 2. Despite this, Team Crosskill Esports’ CKxKinG was banned live duing BGIS 2023 Losers Bracket. It will be interesting to see how Krafton India reacts to this plaguing issue. Stay updated with the latest news in gaming and esports by signing up for early access to TalkEsport’s Mobile App. Follow us on Twitter and Google News to ensure you never miss the exciting updates. TalkEsport is your one-stop home for all the esports content, entertainment, event, influencers and game title news. The true source for esports news. Write to us: [email protected] © Copyright - TalkEsport Media & Broadcasting (P) Ltd.