  Al Tayer Motors, the UAE’s official Maserati importer-dealer, handed over the first units of the all-new Grecale - a new SUV from the legendary Italian brand known for its elegant, sporty vehicles. The cars were handed over from the Al Tayer Motors Maserati showroom on Dubai’s Sheikh Zayed Road as well as the Premier Motors Maserati showroom in Abu Dhabi. During the handover, Jad Elias, Vice President, Maserati, Al Tayer Motors said, “We are really excited to hand over the first batch of the all-new Grecale vehicles to our customers. We are sure they will enjoy the exceptional driving experience offered by this sporty, stylish and compact SUV and look forward to seeing them in growing numbers on our roads soon.” Grecale strikes the right balance between versatility, elegance, performance and innovation. These features are combined with off-road capabilities and uncompromising driving pleasure. Hamdy Elshantoury, General Manager of Maserati Middle East & Africa, noted: "Maserati continues to accelerate audaciously into a brave new future with revolutionary new cars, innovations and exclusive projects. The all-new Grecale SUV embodies Maserati’s all-Italian audacity in making luxury and exceptional performance part of the daily routine, transforming every journey into a unique driving experience." With a starting price of AED 299,000 the Grecale is available from Al Tayer Motors and Premier Motors, the authorised dealer for the brand in Abu Dhabi and includes a three-year unlimited kilometre warranty and three year or 45,000 kilometres service package on the GT and Modena versions, and upto 60,000 kilometres on the Trofeo. An extremely wide range of engines is available on the Grecale: conventional internal combustion, hybrid and in future Grecale will also be the first full-electric SUV in Maserati history. The three versions of the Grecale are: GT (the first to arrive), powered by a four-cylinder mild hybrid engine capable of delivering 300 hp; Modena, with a four-cylinder 330-hp mild hybrid engine; and the powerful Trofeo, equipped with a high-performance 3.0L 530-hp petrol V6 based on the Nettuno engine fitted to the MC20. Completing the range in the future will be the Grecale Folgore, the 100% electric version with 400V technology. Experience unparalleled driving dynamics with the Grecale's eight-speed automatic transmission, all-wheel drive, and a variety of drive modes that can be adjusted to the driver's preference, including: COMFORT, GT, SPORT, CORSA (Trofeo only) and OFF-ROAD. For further information, please visit www.altayermotors.com. For media enquiries, please contact: Sony Elias, Senior Public Relations Manager, Al Tayer Motors, Dubai, UAE. Tel: +9714 3037515, Mob: +971505811249, Email: selias@altayer.com   © 2000 - 2024 Al Bawaba (www.albawaba.com) Al Tayer Motors was established in 1982 and represents major European and American automobile manufacturers such as Land Rover, Jaguar, Ford, Lincoln, Ferrari and Maserati across the UAE. Al Tayer Motors’ portfolio also includes commercial vehicles - Ford Trucks in the UAE.As a company, we deal with a discerning customer who demands the best. From this stand point, we created a unique retail and service environment to meet our brands’ expected service standards.The automobiles we sell provide immense pleasure and satisfaction to their owners and we add value by ensuring the joy is uninterrupted. Dedicated service, sales and parts centers in addition to world class personnel provide each customer with a unique ownership experience. Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content Subscribe  