This site uses cookies to enhance your user experience. By continuing to use this site you are agreeing to our COOKIE POLICY.
 
						ERROR 1
					 
						ERROR 1
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							Password and Confirm password must match.
					 
							If you have an ACS member number, please enter it here so we can link this account to your membership. (optional)
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
						ACS values your privacy. By submitting your information, you are gaining access to C&EN and subscribing to our weekly newsletter. We use the information you provide to make your reading experience better, and we will never sell your data to third party members.
					 
						Already have an ACS ID? Log in here
   
           
               Already an ACS Member?
               Log in here
            
             
          $0 Community Associate
 ACS’s Basic Package keeps you connected with C&EN and ACS. $80 Regular Members & Society Affiliates ACS’s Standard Package lets you stay up to date with C&EN, stay active in ACS, and save. $160 Regular Members & Society Affiliates
$55 Graduate Students
$25 Undergraduate Students ACS’s Premium Package gives you full access to C&EN and everything the ACS Community has to offer. 
                                    
                                    Your account has been created successfully, and a confirmation email is on the way.
                                    
                                 
                                    
                                    Your username is now your ACS ID.
                                    
                                 Most Popular in Education


U.S. team makes history at International Chemistry Olympiad


Escape room outreach and playing the publication game 


How an alternative grading system is improving student learning


Expanding American Sign Language’s scientific vocabulary


   Patrick Lutz, an assistant professor at St. Lawrence University, adapted a classic iodine clock demonstration for his General Chemistry class to evoke the starkly different vibes of the summer’s two biggest movie events: Barbie and Oppenheimer. The demo starts with Lutz pouring a test tube full of a Barbie-pink solution comprised of vinegar, food coloring, starch, iodide, and a small amount of ascorbic acid into a beaker containing clear, colorless hydrogen peroxide. For several seconds, nothing happens. Then the rose-colored liquid abruptly turns a purple-black color reminiscent of Oppenheimer’s dour color palette.  At the time, Lutz didn’t discuss the chemistry in detail with his students, who were just learning what atoms and molecules are. But here’s what happened behind the scenes: iodide (I-) reacts with hydrogen peroxide in the presence of acid to form molecular iodine (I2). Starch reacts with I2 to form a black complex—but ascorbic acid reacts with I2 faster, delaying the starch complexation and the color change. The students will eventually do the reaction in the lab portion of the class as an introduction to stoichiometry. Lutz says he likes the demo because all the supplies can be purchased inexpensively from a supermarket or a drugstore, and the naturally colorless starting solution can be dyed to fit any theme.  Credit: Patrick Lutz  Do science. Take pictures. Win money. Enter our photo contest here.   Click here to see more Chemistry in Pictures.  Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter 



Contact us to opt out anytime



 Article: 

 This article has been sent to the following recipient:  

 Contact the reporter 
 

 Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication 
 

 Engage with us on Twitter 
 Already have an ACS ID? 
                                    Log in
 Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter  Copyright © 2024 American Chemical Society. All Rights Reserved.