Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Donald Trump’s combative CNN town hall elicited strong reactions from viewers, celebrities and political insiders, many of whom were disgusted by the former president reasserting false claims the 2020 election was stolen and hurling insults at abuse accuser E. Jean Carroll.“CNN This Morning” host Kaitlan Collins moderated Wednesday night’s event in New Hampshire, where the audience featured Trump supporters and undecided voters.The sit-down took place a day after Trump was found liable of sexual abuse and defamation against Carroll, who accused him of raping her in the mid-1990s.“I have no idea who the hell [she is],” Trump said Wednesday. “She’s a whack job.”
Former President Donald Trump during a CNN Town Hall event.During the town hall, Trump referenced a “rigged election,” dodged a question about whether he wants Ukraine to win its war against Russia, said he would pardon many who stormed the Capitol in 2021, and called Collins a “nasty person.”“The predictably disastrous @cnn town hall was indeed disastrous,” tweeted Mark Lukasiewicz, the dean of Hofstra University’s communications school. “Proving again: Live lying works. A friendly MAGA crowd consistently laughs, claps at Trump’s punch lines — including re sex assault and Jan 6 — and the moderator cannot begin to keep up with the AR-15 pace of lies.”Journalist Brian Stelter, who left CNN last year, tweeted, “THIS is the 2024 Republican presidential primary. Look away if you choose, but this is what it’s going to be like. Should news outlets sanitize it or stare it in the face?”Film director Rob Reiner wrote Trump is “a Liar, a Criminal, and is mentally ill.”

“It was disgraceful on every level,” said Joe Scarborough, who co-hosts “Morning Joe” on MSNBC. “I wouldn’t say it’s dangerous for democracy because we passed that a long time ago, but it showed the corrosive effects of Trump-ism over eight years. I’ve got to say, the most shocking part was an audience who cheered on a president who tried to overturn American democracy. An audience that mocked and ridiculed a woman who a jury of her peers, Donald Trump’s peers, found had been sexually assaulted.”In an analysis piece Thursday, CNN media reporter Oliver Darcy praised Collins and acknowledged criticisms of his network after the town hall, writing, “It’s hard to see how America was served by the spectacle of lies that aired on CNN Wednesday evening.”A representative for CNN told the Daily News in a statement, “Kaitlan Collins exemplified what it means to be a world-class journalist.”“She asked tough, fair and revealing questions. And she followed up and fact-checked President Trump in real time to arm voters with crucial information about his positions as he enters the 2024 election as the Republican frontrunner. That is CNN’s role and responsibility: to get answers and hold the powerful to account.” “CNN This Morning” host Kaitlan Collins moderated Wednesday night’s event in New Hampshire, where the audience featured Trump supporters and undecided voters. The sit-down took place a day after Trump was found liable of sexual abuse and defamation against Carroll, who accused him of raping her in the mid-1990s. “I have no idea who the hell [she is],” Trump said Wednesday. “She’s a whack job.” During the town hall, Trump referenced a “rigged election,” dodged a question about whether he wants Ukraine to win its war against Russia, said he would pardon many who stormed the Capitol in 2021, and called Collins a “nasty person.” “The predictably disastrous @cnn town hall was indeed disastrous,” tweeted Mark Lukasiewicz, the dean of Hofstra University’s communications school. “Proving again: Live lying works. A friendly MAGA crowd consistently laughs, claps at Trump’s punch lines — including re sex assault and Jan 6 — and the moderator cannot begin to keep up with the AR-15 pace of lies.” Journalist Brian Stelter, who left CNN last year, tweeted, “THIS is the 2024 Republican presidential primary. Look away if you choose, but this is what it’s going to be like. Should news outlets sanitize it or stare it in the face?” Film director Rob Reiner wrote Trump is “a Liar, a Criminal, and is mentally ill.” “It was disgraceful on every level,” said Joe Scarborough, who co-hosts “Morning Joe” on MSNBC. “I wouldn’t say it’s dangerous for democracy because we passed that a long time ago, but it showed the corrosive effects of Trump-ism over eight years. I’ve got to say, the most shocking part was an audience who cheered on a president who tried to overturn American democracy. An audience that mocked and ridiculed a woman who a jury of her peers, Donald Trump’s peers, found had been sexually assaulted.” In an analysis piece Thursday, CNN media reporter Oliver Darcy praised Collins and acknowledged criticisms of his network after the town hall, writing, “It’s hard to see how America was served by the spectacle of lies that aired on CNN Wednesday evening.” A representative for CNN told the Daily News in a statement, “Kaitlan Collins exemplified what it means to be a world-class journalist.” “She asked tough, fair and revealing questions. And she followed up and fact-checked President Trump in real time to arm voters with crucial information about his positions as he enters the 2024 election as the Republican frontrunner. That is CNN’s role and responsibility: to get answers and hold the powerful to account.” Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News