e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Global Real Estate Advisors, Inc has been recognized by Lake County Treasurer Michael Zuren for local business and community impact.Global Real Estate Advisor’s was nominated by Neil Conway for its significant impact on Lake County business growth and expansion resulting in job creation, according to a release from the Treasurer’s Office.Mentor-based Global offers services including brokerage buying, selling, and leasing in industrial, retail, land, office, and investment.  Its knowledge and commitment to Lake County has contributed to a thriving business environment. Global also supports numerous non-profits throughout Lake County including the United Way, Council on Aging, Project Hope, VFW, numerous churches, and local schools.The proclamation was presented to Neil Sawicki, broker/president of Global Real Estate Advisors.Anyone can nominate a Lake County business to be recognized that has been in business for 10, 25, or 50 years or more.Some of the local businesses go above and beyond expectations and have had a huge positive impact on our communities, the release stated. Nominate your favorite business by emailing Sherri.falkenberg@lakecountyohio.gov. Global Real Estate Advisor’s was nominated by Neil Conway for its significant impact on Lake County business growth and expansion resulting in job creation, according to a release from the Treasurer’s Office. Mentor-based Global offers services including brokerage buying, selling, and leasing in industrial, retail, land, office, and investment.  Its knowledge and commitment to Lake County has contributed to a thriving business environment. Global also supports numerous non-profits throughout Lake County including the United Way, Council on Aging, Project Hope, VFW, numerous churches, and local schools. The proclamation was presented to Neil Sawicki, broker/president of Global Real Estate Advisors. Anyone can nominate a Lake County business to be recognized that has been in business for 10, 25, or 50 years or more. Some of the local businesses go above and beyond expectations and have had a huge positive impact on our communities, the release stated. Nominate your favorite business by emailing Sherri.falkenberg@lakecountyohio.gov. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group