The Season 10 premiere of Vanderpump Rules was highly anticipated, and did not disappoint. For one, James Kennedy moved on quickly from ex-fiancée Raquel Leviss. But he somehow seems to have unresolved issues. Certainly there was some reason James and Lala Kent spilled the beans to co-star Katie Maloney about hooking up. Neither had revealed the cheating prior. Lala was with ex-fiancée Randall Emmett, while James had just started dating Raquel. Both parties were joking about the matter. And when Raquel found out later in the season that James cheated on her, she was understandably shocked. She gave her reaction to E! News at the premiere party. “She [Lala] did say that she hooked up with James and it was during the time that James and I were together,” Raquel said. Reality Blurb! confirmed that her first instinct was to do “a little investigation” before reacting harshly. Raquel explained, “For some reason, I was very naive back in the day, and I thought that James never cheated on me, but this just, like, clarified that he has definitely cheated on me multiple times, and so that was definitely, definitely a hard pill to swallow.” But the betrayal didn’t end with Lala. James also admitted to having “fun” multiple times during his relationship with Raquel. If it’s any consolation, the DJ is remorseful, per HollywoodLife.  RELATED: Vanderpump Rules Star Lala Kent Admits That She Might Look Like A “Hypocrite” In Season 10 “[It] obviously [was] not my proudest moment,” James said. “[But] this was six years ago, so that to me, you know, I hadn’t thought about that in such a long time. That was kind of a dark skeleton that was tucked away forever, and brought back to life, but honestly, it’s not my place to be mad at Lala [for revealing it]. But it was a reflecting moment for me to see how far I’ve come,” he added. James told Pump Rules viewers to anticipate an intense reaction from Raquel when she discovers the truth. “You’ve got to definitely watch what happens because it’s crazy. It’s crazy,” James told Reality Blurb!. He added, “Raquel found out, obviously, when I told her and I didn’t get the reaction that I was expecting. I get it later on in the season.” Lala confirmed that she spoke of the betrayal in order to move forward with a “clean slate.” She said, “I just wanted skeletons out of my closet. I felt like I had just been living in so much sh-t since my [split with Randall] … And I didn’t want this monkey on my back every time I was around her knowing this one detail. I don’t know if I made the right call, but I’m glad it’s all out there now,” Lala explained. TELL US- ARE YOU SURPRISED THAT JAMES CHEATED ON RAQUEL? SHOULD LALA HAVE ADMITTED HOOKING UP WITH JAMES? HOW DO YOU THINK RAQUEL WILL REACT? [Photo Credit: Emma McIntyre/WireImage] The post Raquel Leviss Reacts To News That James Kennedy Cheated On Her With Lala Kent appeared first on Reality Tea. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.