
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/02/14/parcl-finally-launches-its-real-estate-derivative-platform/   
CRE Tech Center
 Users bet on whether specific real estate values will grow or shrink but without exposure to the properties' actual value. Back in May 2022, Parcl — a company in a category that seems like a cross between proptech and fintech.— announced a $7.5 million funding round with participation from the likes of Archetype, Dragonfly Capital, Shima Capital, Solana Ventures, Not Boring Capital, and FJ Labs. At the time, Parcl called itself "a digital real estate protocol built on Solana, a blockchain specifically designed to host decentralized and scalable applications," that "allows users to invest in and trade-specific geographical markets" and which "requires no minimum investment, offers immediate liquidity, and carries low transaction fees," according to information sent to GlobeSt.com by its PR firm. Parcl announced that it has finally launched its product, Parcl Protocol, built on Solana, a blockchain specifically designed to host decentralized and scalable applications. "Providing exposure to the most desirable cities in the United States including New York City, Miami, Phoenix, and Los Angeles, and with global cities such as Paris, London and Singapore coming later this year," said its press release. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Jack Rogers |  April 23, 2024 Sunnyvale, CA-based Matterport's library of virtual property tours includes 12 million spaces encompassing an estimated 38 billion square feet. By Philippa Maister |  October 13, 2023 "From investment-driven innovation in the region's largest cities to creative disruptors hailing from the small university towns, the Northeast's tech scene comes in many shapes and sizes," the report noted. By Philippa Maister |  October 12, 2023 A recent report by CommercialCafe ranked the 20 best Midwestern metro areas for tech development by several metrics, revealing surges in Madison, Ann Arbor and Chicago. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
