A teaser trailer has been released for Netflix’s biographical crime drama, Griselda, starring Sofia Vergara (Modern Family) as the titular real-life Columbian drug lord, Griselda Blanco. From the creators Netflix’s acclaimed show Narcos, the limited series is written and executive produced by Ingrid Escajeda and Narcos showrunner Eric Newman, with Escajeda set as the showrunner. Andrés Baiz is serving as the director and executive producer alongside Luis Balaguer, Doug Miro, and Carlo Bernard. Vergara is joined in the series by Alberto Guerra, Vanessa Ferlito, Alberto Ammann, Christian Tappan, Diego Trujillo, Paulina Davila, Gabriel Sloyer, Juliana Aidén Martinez, Martin Rodriguez, José Zúñiga, Maximiliano Hernández, and Julieth Restrepo. The film’s logline reads: “Griselda is inspired by the life of the savvy and ambitious Colombian businesswoman Griselda Blanco, a devoted mother who created one of the most profitable cartels in history. In 1970s-80s Miami, Blanco's lethal blend of unsuspected savagery and charm helped her expertly navigate between business and family, leading her to become widely known as 'the Godmother.'” This looks like it’s going to be good! Vergara is a great actress, and she made a total transformation into this role. Check out the trailer below, and watch Griselda on Netflix on January 25th, 2024. I’m Jessica Fisher! I love being a wife and mom, and I love movies and TV. I’m a murderino, and love to travel and write. I love Disney and the beach, and being awesome. My favorite things to geek out on are the podcast My Favorite Murder, The Handmaid’s Tale, Mindhunter, Cobra Kai, The Wonder Years, and The Walking Dead. My favorite movies are About Time, 50/50, pretty much anything with Jason Segel and/or Paul Rudd, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Dirty Dancing, and so many others. I love the books Little Women and Harry Potter, and love stand-up comedy. I love writing for GeekTyrant! All names, trademarks and images are copyright their respective owners.   ///   Copyright / DMCA Notice
Copyright © 2008-2024, GeekTyrant Industries, LLC. All rights reserved.
Cookie Declaration  ///   Privacy Policy
Links monetized by VigLinkCustom Code and Design by, Free Reyes