
                  Foudy gets 1st regular-season goal, Korpisalo makes 28 saves for Columbus
                 Olivier helps Blue Jackets win on road DALLAS --Mathieu Olivier had a goal and two assists, and the Columbus Blue Jackets handed the Dallas Stars their fourth straight loss, 4-1 at American Airlines Center on Saturday. Eric Robinson had a goal and an assist, Sean Kuraly had two assists, and Joonas Korpisalo made 28 saves for the Blue Jackets (18-34-4), who have won three of their past four following a four-game losing streak.Forward Johnny Gaudreau, who had played 349 consecutive games, was unavailable becasue of a lower-body injury sustained during a 3-1 win against the Winnipeg Jets on Thursday. He is day to day."We've got to grow as a team, right? We've got a young team," Olivier said. "Obviously, this season we've had some really bad bounces with injuries, guys in and out of the lineup. We're all just trying to take advantage of the opportunity here for us. We've got a ton of stuff to prove, so every game is important to us at this point." CBJ@DAL: Boqvist puts Blue Jackets on top in 3rd Ty Dellandrea scored, and Scott Wedgewood made 33 saves for the Stars (30-15-12), who have lost seven of nine (2-2-5), including a 2-1 shootout defeat to the Minnesota Wild on Friday."You're going to have to find ways to overcome," Dallas coach Peter DeBoer said. "You're going to have to find a way to overcome [a] back to back, a tough schedule, and some travel, and an early start, and a couple of overturned goals. We've got to find a way to overcome those things."Liam Foudy gave Columbus a 1-0 lead at 17:41 of the first period. After Wedgewood poke-checked a cutting Jack Roslovic, Foudy knocked the loose puck in on a backhand.Selected in the first round (No. 18) of the 2018 NHL Draft, it was Foudy's first regular-season goal in 63 NHL games. He scored his first career goal during the 2020 Stanley Cup Playoffs."I felt like I was playing some pretty good games lately and our line (with Roslovic and Emil Bemstrom) was playing well," Foudy said. "And the team, we're having some close games lately and winning some. Obviously, getting that goal is big for my self-confidence." CBJ@DAL: Olivier increases Blue Jackets' lead in 3rd Dallas thought it tied the game at 5:25 of the second period when Jason Robertson scored after receiving a stretch pass, but video review determined Roope Hintz was offside.Dellandrea tied it 1-1 at 6:29 when he intercepted a bank pass by Kent Johnson in the Blue Jackets' zone that was intended for Cole Sillinger before scoring from the right face-off circle."It's hard to win with one goal," Stars forward Radek Faksa said. "Sometimes it's like that for a few games, then you get a few goals and they keep coming again. It happens to every team in [a] season -- have a little tough stretch of games -- and that's what's happening to us a little bit right now. We didn't play bad, but the overtimes and shootout losses didn't help us."Dallas thought they took a 2-1 lead at 7:44 when Wyatt Johnston scored on a loose puck in front, but video review determined Jamie Benn impaired Korpisalo's ability to play his position when his skate clipped the goalie's stick."That potentially, if either of them stand, it changes the game," DeBoer said. "We go ahead on both those situations and the game probably changes." CBJ@DAL: Foudy kicks off scoring in 1st period Columbus entered the game 2-for-3 on coach's challenges this season."It was a good game," Blue Jackets coach Brad Larsen said. "Obviously we got the offside call and then the goalie interference call, which helped. What I liked really was, when they came in the last 10 minutes of the second period, how we played. We got the momentum back on our side, which I thought was real important going into the third."Adam Boqvist gave Columbus a 2-1 lead at 5:49 of the third period when his slap shot from the top of the right circle deflected off the stick of Mason Marchment.Olivier extended it to 3-1 at 15:32, knocking in a loose puck in the crease after a shot by Robinson from the right circle off a rush squeaked past Wedgewood.Robinson was awarded a goal at 18:40 after he was hooked on a breakaway by Stars defenseman Miro Heiskanen with Wedgewood pulled for an extra attacker for the 4-1 final."We didn't have it tonight," Dellandrea said. "I think effort, executing our game plan just wasn't good enough. It's unacceptable this time of year, and with the standings, we have to win those games."NOTES: Stars forward Fredrik Olofsson had one shot on goal and one hit in 13:17 of ice time after being recalled from Texas of the American Hockey League earlier Saturday. … Olivier had his first multipoint game in the NHL (99 games). … Blue Jackets defenseman Vladislav Gavrikov was a healthy scratch for a third straight game ahead of a possible trade. … Dallas forward Luke Glendening sustained a lower-body injury Friday. DeBoer said he is week to week. … Boqvist has two goals in his past three games. He did not score in his first 21 games of the season.