Photo Credit: Getty Images Miro is just waiting for the right opportunity to get back on AEW TV. Miro was at the premiere of Disney+’s National Treasure: Edge of History, and he spoke with MUSE TV about his absence from AEW programming. “Spicy questions… it’s not up to me,” he stated. “I’m doing anything I can; from then on, I’m just sitting and waiting for the opportunity.” Miro has not appeared in All Elite Wrestling since he won a six-man tag team match with Sting and Darby Allin at the 2022 All Out pay-per-view. This match was just the fourth match Miro competed in all year, as he also competed at the Forbidden Door pay-per-view and two singles on Dynamite in June. Sean Ross Sapp of Fightful recently reported (via Fightful Select) that Miro has been completely healthy. It was noted that Miro was eager to get back in the ring, but there haven’t been any creative plans presented to bring him back to television. Dave Meltzer reported more information in the Wrestling Observer Newsletter, noting that there was one storyline pitched that would run through Full Gear but he wasn’t on board with it. Rather than put him on television without a plan, it was decided to wait until there was something more concrete. Miro finding some very unlikely allies in Sting & Darby – Miro vows to wreck the pagans this SUNDAY Sept 4th on #AEWAllOut LIVE on PPV! Tune in NOW to #AEWDynamite LIVE on TBS pic.twitter.com/gj8k802XX9 — All Elite Wrestling (@AEW) September 1, 2022 During an appearance on The Sessions with Renee Paquette, he reflected on the ‘Best Man’ chapter of his career and noted that Tony Khan pitched him the spot of being the best man, and he was open to it because he wanted to play a new character. He recalled how he dyed his hair on a whim because his wife, CJ Perry, was doing it. As for his clothes, he noted that he wanted to look different. “Tony Khan wanted, they called me with a spot to be The Best Man. I wanted to just be a new person. If this is what you want me to be, I can’t come and be Rusev, be like, ‘I’m gonna play video games and I’m gonna f——…,’ can’t do that. So I was like alright…” Miro then went on to share that his blonde hair was a more spontaneous decision, but his apparel was a concentrated effort to stand out. “I think CJ — the hair was just incidental. CJ was dying her hair or something, and she was like, ‘You wanna do it?’ I’m like, ‘Ah, why not?’ Then the clothes, I don’t know what happened with the clothes. I wanted to look cool. I just wanted to look just different. I think I did, but it’s a write-off. It’s for TV. But also, you gotta treat yourself sometimes.” Read More: Miro: I Used To Buy A New Property With Every Pay-Per-View Check The post Miro Comments On His Absence From AEW TV appeared first on Wrestlezone. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.