Comment Mobile commerce in Latin America is expected to continue a healthy growth streak over the next few years, and Leadsales, a Mexican startup, wants to help small and medium businesses in Latin America manage all of those potential sales via WhatsApp and social media channels. The conversational commerce company already has Meta as a business partner and has developed a customer relationship management tool that provides customizable columns and sales funnel automation. Here’s how it works: Companies can store customer information and then centralize into columns chats that come in, for example, billing, product inquiries or random questions. Those chats can be assigned to the best sales leads and configured to provide recommendations and instant messages. Roberto Peñacastro, Leadsales’ founder and CEO, started the company in 2020 after working with co-founder David Villa Cañez at Villa Cañez’s previous startup mienvio, providing logistics SaaS for LatAm e-commerce businesses. Prior to that, Peñacastro worked for Google to help small businesses scale their sales via ads. “We quickly noticed a trend that small businesses were transitioning to selling via WhatsApp without the right tool to scale their business,” Peñacastro said via email. “Our native chat integration on our pipeline view is truly unique as no other CRM does this integration for chats, and on top of this, we’ve built a platform that is built for non-tech savvy users that takes less than five minutes to ‘plug & play.’” Peñacastro and Villa Cañez bootstrapped the company to more than 1,400 customers, a presence in Mexico, Colombia and Perú, and $1.6 million in annual recurring revenue, before deciding to go after venture capital. Leadsales recently closed on $3.7 million of seed funding, led by Ulu Ventures and Blue Pointe Ventures, to make more hires and expand into Brazil. The country is a big user of WhatsApp and is where Meta is piloting native payments integration via WhatsApp, Peñacastro said. Leadsales joins a growing group of conversational commerce startups raising capital in the past few years; for example Yalo, Whym, Charles and Wizard. Even Walmart is doing it. However, Peñacastro said Leadsales’ closest competitors are the more traditional customer relationship management companies like HubSpot, Salesforce and Pipedrive. “Our moat is that current CRMs are becoming old for the new trends of conversational commerce through instant chat,” he said. “The way we are different is on our native integration with chat for small businesses that rely on WhatsApp communications to get the sales closed.” In addition to Brazil, the company has plans to expand into India, Africa and Southeast Asia with a Series A in the near future. Peñacastro expects to double Leadsales’ customers by the end of 2023 following the launch in Brazil next month and then 10x the company’s annual recurring revenue in 2024. Embracing digital commerce may be retailers’ best bet for staying ahead of a fast-moving industry  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that it’s Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Powered by WordPress VIP