Many people around the world are concerned about the future of food in the face of rising global temperatures. This concern has also translated into efforts to uncover and develop alternative food sources. In this regard, Solar Foods, a Finnish company, seems to have made promising progress. At an event in Singapore, the startup recently unveiled Solein, a type of vegan protein. This non-traditional yet 'natural' protein has been produced using air, water, electricity and microbes. It can apparently be used to make dishes ranging from pasta and noodles to bread and spreads.Also Read: Food Delivery Agent Asks For Fuel Money To Deliver Order, Internet ReactsSolein can be used to make different types of pasta. Photo Credit: solarfoods.comSolein is reported to visually resemble turmeric powder and has a nutty taste. Its flavour is also said to have a "pleasant note of umami." According to the company's website, it is made up of 65-70% protein, 5-8% fat (primarily unsaturated fats), 10-15% dietary fibre and 3-5 % mineral nutrients. In terms of nutritional value, Solein can provide iron, fibre and B vitamins. In the press release for the launch event, the company has briefly explained how exactly it is made: "Solein is produced using a bioprocess where microbes are fed with gases (carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and oxygen) and small amounts of nutrients. The bioprocess resembles winemaking, with carbon dioxide and hydrogen replacing sugar as the source of carbon and energy, respectively."Also Read: 'Oscars Of Food', Investigating Chefs, Cooks Up A ControversySolein is said to resemble turmeric. Photo Credit: solarfoods.comWhat makes Solein potentially revolutionary is that it does not depend on agriculture, weather, or climate. The company has clarified that "it can be produced in harsh conditions such as deserts, Arctic areas, even space. The process does not require animals or photosynthetic plants." Solar Foods CEO and partner Pasi Vainikka told Bloomberg that "Solein won't be widely available until 2024 at least when a small-scale proof-of-concept plant is fully operational. The glacial pace of approvals is one factor that's slowing its rollout. Singapore is the only jurisdiction that's given Solein the green light. Approval in the European Union isn't expected before 2025."Also Read: Woman Claims Sushi Restaurant Shamed Her For Ordering Too Much Food, Restaurant RespondsBloomberg also reported that, at present, the company is collaborating with food companies and restaurants to incorporate the product in dishes, or as an alternative dairy ingredient.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Solein can be used to make different types of pasta. Photo Credit: solarfoods.com Solein is reported to visually resemble turmeric powder and has a nutty taste. Its flavour is also said to have a "pleasant note of umami." According to the company's website, it is made up of 65-70% protein, 5-8% fat (primarily unsaturated fats), 10-15% dietary fibre and 3-5 % mineral nutrients. In terms of nutritional value, Solein can provide iron, fibre and B vitamins. In the press release for the launch event, the company has briefly explained how exactly it is made: "Solein is produced using a bioprocess where microbes are fed with gases (carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and oxygen) and small amounts of nutrients. The bioprocess resembles winemaking, with carbon dioxide and hydrogen replacing sugar as the source of carbon and energy, respectively."Also Read: 'Oscars Of Food', Investigating Chefs, Cooks Up A ControversySolein is said to resemble turmeric. Photo Credit: solarfoods.comWhat makes Solein potentially revolutionary is that it does not depend on agriculture, weather, or climate. The company has clarified that "it can be produced in harsh conditions such as deserts, Arctic areas, even space. The process does not require animals or photosynthetic plants." Solar Foods CEO and partner Pasi Vainikka told Bloomberg that "Solein won't be widely available until 2024 at least when a small-scale proof-of-concept plant is fully operational. The glacial pace of approvals is one factor that's slowing its rollout. Singapore is the only jurisdiction that's given Solein the green light. Approval in the European Union isn't expected before 2025."Also Read: Woman Claims Sushi Restaurant Shamed Her For Ordering Too Much Food, Restaurant RespondsBloomberg also reported that, at present, the company is collaborating with food companies and restaurants to incorporate the product in dishes, or as an alternative dairy ingredient.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Solein is said to resemble turmeric. Photo Credit: solarfoods.com What makes Solein potentially revolutionary is that it does not depend on agriculture, weather, or climate. The company has clarified that "it can be produced in harsh conditions such as deserts, Arctic areas, even space. The process does not require animals or photosynthetic plants." Solar Foods CEO and partner Pasi Vainikka told Bloomberg that "Solein won't be widely available until 2024 at least when a small-scale proof-of-concept plant is fully operational. The glacial pace of approvals is one factor that's slowing its rollout. Singapore is the only jurisdiction that's given Solein the green light. Approval in the European Union isn't expected before 2025."Also Read: Woman Claims Sushi Restaurant Shamed Her For Ordering Too Much Food, Restaurant RespondsBloomberg also reported that, at present, the company is collaborating with food companies and restaurants to incorporate the product in dishes, or as an alternative dairy ingredient.Advertisement
                                             Comments  Bloomberg also reported that, at present, the company is collaborating with food companies and restaurants to incorporate the product in dishes, or as an alternative dairy ingredient.Advertisement
                                             Comments  About Toshita SahniToshita is fuelled by wordplay, wanderlust, wonderment and Alliteration. When she is not blissfully contemplating her next meal, she enjoys reading novels and roaming around the city. Listen to the latest songs, only on JioSaavn.com