Chris Mele is the managing partner of Software Pricing Partners.   Picture this: Tanya and Tessa are trying to purchase the same software solution for their companies. Their companies are the same size (employing roughly 50 people each) and are in different industries. Tanya and Tessa have almost identical use cases for the software. After they each undergo the sales process with a different salesperson and sign on the dotted line, they meet for coffee to catch up—and Tanya learns that Tessa paid half the price that she did for the software. It’s a tale of two software buyers, and unfortunately, it’s a common one in software sales. But these inconsistent, friction-filled sales processes hurt buyers and software companies alike. If they want long-term success, software companies must prioritize creating frictionless, transparent pricing processes. Inconsistent software pricing has existed for decades, and the problem compounded in the early 2000s with the introduction of agile development. At the core, agile development centers on iterative product building. Instead of building products in their entirety and shipping them out, software companies started to develop and ship products in stages. Suddenly, companies didn’t have the complete picture of the development process and couldn’t give salespeople fully-baked monetization models. And with the focus on product management and development, pricing fell into the background; stakeholders came to view it as just another product attribute rather than a separate function. Around the same time, software companies realized they could charge customers vastly different prices—and get away with it. Before the advent of social media, customers had fewer ways to connect and disclose the pricing they received. Now, of course, the landscape has changed. Customers can exchange information in nanoseconds. But many software companies have not updated their pricing strategies to reflect this new reality. It’s expected that two customers with vastly different needs (such as one looking to deploy software to its 10,000 employees and another looking to deploy the same tool to its 100 employees) will and should get different pricing. But software pricing for comparable use cases should be a level playing field. There are two main reasons why software pricing for comparable use cases is all over the map. First, there’s a lack of pricing standardization at software companies. Incentivized by commissions, salespeople often have free rein to give whatever discounts they deem necessary to win sales; where one salesperson gives a 40% discount, another might give a 75% discount. In fact, according to a 2022 McKinsey survey of software executives and decision-makers, 42% of respondents said that “their company provides no deal-level pricing guidance.” Second, many software executives fail to recognize pricing as a science. New companies are more prone to this erroneous mindset because while their teams are talented in developing technology, they don’t tend to have the necessary experience to make the right pricing judgment calls. Without that experience, these teams often fall back on copying their competitors’ pricing, which is ineffective. Just because a pricing structure works for one company doesn’t mean it will work for another; moreover, it’s usually the case that the competitors don’t have a sound pricing structure to begin with. When software companies don’t standardize their pricing or don’t approach pricing as a science, they’re left with complicated, friction-filled selling processes where buyers play protracted negotiation games to protect themselves. These kinds of selling processes erode customer trust. If the transaction occurs despite eroded customer trust, the software is rarely deployed efficiently. Even where customers might buy software without interacting with an actual salesperson, the reality is that the sales process is an integral part of the customer journey. Any software company with a complex and opaque selling environment risks losing its customers' goodwill—and business. Gone are the days when customers' primary source of information was software salespeople. Customers take pricing research into their own hands these days. G2’s 2023 Software Buyer Behavior Report found that 66% of buyers “say salespeople at a software company are not generally involved in the research phase of the purchasing process” and that the top 85% of research sources buyers turn to “include industry experts, colleagues or professional networks, online reviews, and other internal influencers.” When buyers find out that they’re paying more than their peers are paying for the same use case, they feel cheated, and some opt to switch providers after their contracts are over, resulting in lost revenue. What’s more, when they feel cheated, they’re likely to warn other prospective buyers about that company—and the company will gain a reputation as one that requires wheeling and dealing just to get a fair price. Friction-filled pricing processes are also detrimental from a market efficiency standpoint. Without data-based, well-thought-out pricing decisions, software companies risk undervaluing their products and, in turn, not getting paid their true worth for the value they deliver. In some cases, software companies give customers contracts that lock in low prices for years to come, which can cause severe financial strain later on. For example, if a software company gives, say, a 50% discount to a customer, that discount doesn’t disappear come renewal time. Instead, it becomes the new baseline from where the renewal negotiation ensues, and that customer will likely argue for another discount to renew on top of what they’ve already been given. Pinpointing the right pricing is a detailed, scientific process that requires careful planning and execution. It can’t be accomplished overnight. But there are several steps software company stakeholders can take to get on the right path. First, executives need to understand and embrace the fact that pricing is the most powerful set of levers they have for profitability and that pricing is a science, not simply another product attribute. From there, they should seek guidance from software pricing experts. Software pricing experts can help executives analyze key details, such as the metrics the software’s pricing should be based on (for instance, charging based on the number of users versus some aspect of usage) and the proper packaging and pricing structure (for example, a tiered product offering versus modular pricing). Based on that analysis, pricing experts can make strategic recommendations. Executives should involve salespeople throughout these initiatives because, for a new pricing approach to succeed, there must be buy-in from salespeople. Salespeople might have reservations about overhauling the pricing process and worry that it’ll be harder for them to close deals. They also worry that the new pricing won’t address all of their prospects’ use cases and will make things either too complex or simple, setting them up for failure. To counter those fears, executives should gather input from salespeople during the pricing strategy creation stage, as well as explain to salespeople how a frictionless, transparent selling environment will translate to more closed-won deals (increased deal velocity) at higher net prices (thanks to eliminating random discounts). In turn, increased deal velocity will raise salespeople’s commissions because they’ll be able to offer deals that have greater monetary value—and close more of them. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 