With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress.  Making Nature Count for People & Planet 
                            The goals of a circular economy are to reduce waste, conserve resources, and minimize environmental impact by keeping products and materials in use for as long as possible. How can this concept help Central Asia achieve sustainable growth?
                         
                            This year’s annual report highlights GPS work and success in supporting countries to adequately price natural capital and ecosystem services into decision making.
                         
                            Bangladesh has made important progress in economic growth and poverty reduction, but much of this progress has come at the cost of high carbon intensity and resource inefficiency, high levels of pollution, reduced climate resilience, and environmental degradation. 

                         
                             The 2023 Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) aims to support the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) in informing policies and investments for improving environmental health and pollution management, a critical step towards a green growth pathway.
                         
                            Protecting the Amazon rainforest is crucial for maintaining its role as “the lungs of the world.” The rainforest stores carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, serves as a hotspot of biodiversity, and stabilizes regional temperatures.
                         
                            This report presents an analysis – conducted between October 2021 and April 2022 - of ESG disclosure practices among leading companies listed on the Thai Stock Exchange using a checklist of general reporting indicators and of
primary specific ESG indicators that Thai companies would be anticipated to disclose on.
                         
                            Data and statistics play a critical role in the prioritization of policies and investments for Bangladesh to achieve green, resilient, and inclusive development (GRID). 
                         
                            The Government of Ethiopia (GoE) has set ambitious goals to protect and increase productivity of renewable natural capital. Natural capital accounts for about 40% of Ethiopia’s total wealth, with cropland and pastureland comprising over two-thirds of this wealth. 
                         
                            The World Bank Group’s mission is to end poverty on a livable planet. With more than 50 percent of global GDP - $44 trillion in economic resources – dependent on nature, it is critical to understand the economic impact of biodiversity to achieve this mission.

How do we do this?
                         
                            The 7th Global Policy Forum on Natural Capital, Implementing the Global Biodiversity Framework: Leveraging Natural Capital Data, Accounting and Analysis to Inform Policies, took place in Kagali, Rwanda
                         
                            Nature, which includes biodiversity and services provided by healthy ecosystems, is at the heart of critical development challenges like health, jobs, poverty, inequality, climate change, food security, and fragility. And yet nature is in decline, despite being the most precious asset that many countries have to tackle climate change, end poverty, and ensure sustainability. 
                         
                            Solar-powered groundwater irrigation is growing quickly in low and middle-income countries.
                         
 
 
 GPS is supported by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, United Kingdon (DEFRA), and the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, Switzerland (SECO). Subscribe to our Newsletter
Check out the latest editions of the GPS newsletters.
 
 Subscribe to our Newsletter Check out the latest editions of the GPS newsletters.  