Rory McIlroy is one the major winners heading to North Berwick this summer Scottish Open Venue: Renaissance Club, North Berwick Dates: 13-16 July Four-time major winner Rory McIlroy is the latest player to join an impressive field for this year's Scottish Open at the Renaissance Club. World number one Scottie Scheffler, major winners Matt Fitzpatrick, Justin Rose, Justin Thomas and defending champion Xander Schauffele will also feature. "It would be great to win a title in the home of golf," said McIlroy, 34. With a prize fund nearing £6.5m, the tournament runs from 13 to 16 July. "The Scottish fans have always been very supportive of me," added McIlroy. The Scottish Open will be in it's usual slot a week before the Open Championship, which this year will be at Royal Liverpool. Schauffele won by a stroke from fellow American Kurt Kitayama last year, which was the fifth successive Scottish Open at Renaissance. DP World Tour Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive What now for Clarke as Scotland's ongoing deterioration continues? 'Time for Scotland rebuild? Or can this team reach World Cup?' Do Scotland's problems lie away from the national team? From titles to tinpottery - rank Scotland's top 10 clubs Subscribe & follow updates on your Premiership team 'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' 'Hull overcomes Olympics setback for Women's Open bid' PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.