Qatar Airways is considered one of the most luxurious airlines in the world, with award-winning business-class suites and even onboard bars. But, unbeknownst to many travelers, the Doha-based carrier also runs a private arm known as Qatar Executive. The high-end subsidiary targets the airline's most elite travelers — specifically those willing to pay up to six figures for a flight. The wholly-owned business was launched in 2009 and has since amassed a fleet of multimillion-dollar corporate jets, including the Gulfstream G650ER, the Bombardier 5000, the Airbus ACJ319, and, most recently, the Gulfstream G700. Qatar is the international launch customer for the $75 million G700, having unveiled the first of 10 on order at the Paris Airshow in June. However, the US-made aircraft was still awaiting certification from the Federal Aviation Administration and could not yet carry high-paying passengers. The airline only had to wait about nine months before Gulfstream finally announced the G700's FAA approval in March, meaning it could finally receive its first official G700 in Doha. The official delivery came nine months after Qatar unveiled the interior of what the G700 would like at the airshow in June. "We are proud to enhance our existing fleet of 15 Gulfstream G650ER aircraft to include the pinnacle of business aviation excellence and look forward to seeing our guests on board soon to experience this technologically advanced aircraft," Qatar Airways Group chief executive Engr. Badr Mohammed Al-Meer said in a press release. Similar to the G650ER, the G700's living spaces include a club area, an office or meeting space, a dining room, a theater, and a bedroom. However, the G700 outperforms its predecessor in range, speed, and cabin altitude, as well as a shorter landing distance that, according to Gulfstream, gives customers "increased flexibility and airport availability." Qatar says its new business jet can operate "ultra-long-range flights between almost all commercial city pairs," like Doha to New York in 13 and a half hours and Doha to Seoul in less than eight hours. I thought the colors and tones were elegant and very visually pleasing. I also liked the decorative touches, like the flowers and the blue and gold carpet. The theater also has a curtain that can separate it from the rest of the jet, offering added privacy. The legrest could also pop up for added comfort. The tray table was easy enough to deploy and store. There were also televisions around the cabin that gave flight information to the guests. Also notice the large "panoramic" windows, which Gulfstream says are the largest in business aviation. These seats can also be converted into a bed. Unlike the club space, a table was already situated between the pair of dining room loungers.  Pajamas are also provided for customers. You can create five distinct living areas and three distinct rooms thanks to the sliding door and the curtain towards the front. The leather-covered toilet also doubles as a seat. The room is accessible from the bathroom and can hold suitcases and oversized items. Because the Qatar G700 has a crew rest area, it only has four living spaces — the club/meeting room, the dining room, the theater, and the bedroom. The fifth option is another meeting or lounge space. The cupboards and drawers weren't huge, but they could hold sodas, chips, candy, protein bars, and other small snacks.  There was easily enough space to cater to the small number of people who'd fly the G700 at any one time. People who can afford to fly private do so because of the convenience. Typically, these charters do not require a security check, and clients can fly between almost any city pair on their own schedule — not one predetermined by the airline. The G700 can fly much further than the G500, which is no longer in the carrier's fleet, according to its website. "The G700 represents the pinnacle of business jet travel and will provide Qatar Executive customers with an unsurpassed experience," he said. Al Baker stepped down as CEO in October after 27 years at the company and was replaced by Badr Mohammed Al-Meer, the former COO of Qatar's Hamad International Airport base, in November. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to