
Published: May 25, 2023 10:08 pm 
 The Sixth and last Simulated Universe’s World is one of the most challenging slices of content to complete in Honkai: Star Rail. You’ll need a team of great level and with strong gear. You might not complete it on the first try either, but it’s better to fail and buy upgrades rather than wait to get the perfect team to ensure a full win. Related: Honkai: Star Rail has made an incredible amount of money in under one month Similarly to the Fourth and Fifth Worlds in the Simulated Universe, you’ll also have to adjust your strategy to get the victory. It includes building the correct team, as well as choosing the best Blessings and Curios on your way up to the final boss, Cocolia. Here are tips to complete the Simulated Universe World Six in Honkai: Star Rail. The main point of focus of the Sixth World of Honkai‘s Simulated Universe is the final boss once again. It’s Cocolia, the boss you’ll face earlier in your Trailblaze missions. She’s Level 65 and is weak to Fire, Lightning, and Quantum.  Building a strong team specifically against her is the key. For the Sixth World of the Simulated Universe, you’ll have a bit more flexibility. Here are some characters who can be key for victory in the Fifth World of the Simulated Universe: Similarly to your team, you’ll have more flexibility regarding your, Path, Blessing, and Curio choices. You can choose the Path of The Hunt, Preservation, or Abundance depending on your sustainability and if you have Seele to benefit from the Path of The Hunt. The Hunt will provide the most damage, which will be useful against Cocolia and her numerous adds. The Preservation will provide significant shields and the one of Abundance will give more heals.  We recommend choosing Blessings that align best with your Resonance. As for Curios, it highly depends on which choices you randomly get. Usually, you’ll always get one obvious choice from the selection of three Curios. Cocolia won’t be easy to beat. She’s the Simulated Universe’s final boss after the game’s launch, and she will give you a hard time. What’s more, you’ll have to defeat her fast because she’ll become stronger the longer the fight gets. Similarly to all other bosses from the combat feature, she has three successive combat Phases, with each its own challenges. Here are each of her Phases detailed, and how to adjust your strategy in consequence. Your journey won’t end once you’ve completed the Sixth World. After this, you’ll be able to unlock higher Difficulty levels for more challenges in Honkai.