The dust has settled on the Boston Celtics’ Game 7 loss to the Miami Heat in the 2023 Eastern Conference finals, with the Celtics now looking at an exceptionally punitive new collective bargaining agreement designed to make life difficult for costly rosters like Boston’s just as they need to retool for another run at a title. The team has major decisions to make in terms of whether to Supermax Jaylen Brown, re-sign Grant Williams, and what to do with the rest of the roster to commit to a financial path that will also put the ball club in the best position possible to hang a banner in the short term. To do all the above, they will end up choosing one of three general approaches to building the roster for their 2023-24 campaign which would be running it back, making minor moves, or something that would see the team take a step back next season to reload for a longer title window (we hope).  All of them have their own, considerable risks — and on this pod, we try our best to outline what the contours of each are before diving into specifics on this latest episode of the CLNS Media “Celtics Lab” podcast.  The Celtics Lab podcast is brought to you by Fan Duel and Better Help. Listen to the “Celtics Lab” podcast on: Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/3zBKQY6 Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3GfUPFi YouTube: https://bit.ly/3F9DvjQ Follow all of your favorite New England teams at Celtics Wire and Patriots Wire!
 Follow all of your favorite New England teams at Celtics Wire and Patriots Wire! Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Celtics Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		 





 
				© Copyright Celtics Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		