Lion Links: 8/19/24 Predicting Orlando City’s Remaining August Matches Lion Links: 8/16/24 Orlando City Signs Midfielder Yutaro Tsukada to First-Team Contract Lion Links: 8/15/24 Orlando Pride Acquire Defender Carson Pickett from Racing Louisville FC How the 2024 Orlando Pride Stack Up against the Best Clubs in World Soccer The Orlando Pride are a Destination Club Grace Chanda Out for the Season with a Ruptured Quadriceps Tendon Orlando Pride Sign Head Coach Seb Hines Through 2027 Orlando City B vs. New York City FC II: Final Score 3-2 as Young Lions Find Rare Win at Home Orlando City B vs. Crown Legacy FC: Final Score 0-0 as 10-Man OCB Falls in Penalties after Scoreless Draw Orlando City B vs. Carolina Core FC: Final Score 2-1 as OCB Ends Eight-Game Winless Streak Orlando City B vs. Chattanooga FC: Final Score 1-0 as Young Lions’ Winless Skid Reaches Eight Games Orlando City B vs. New York Red Bulls II: Final Score 1-1 as OCB Draws Again and Falls in Penalties Orlando City vs. Atlético San Luis, Leagues Cup: Photo Gallery Orlando Pride vs. CF Monterrey Femenil: Photo Gallery Orlando City vs. CF Montreal, Leagues Cup: Photo Gallery Orlando City vs. Inter Miami: Photo Gallery Orlando Pride vs Racing Louisville: Photo Gallery The Lions have a quick recovery from the July 4 fireworks against Toronto before facing a tough RSL side away. Published on By The sandwich in Orlando City’s three-games-in-eight-days schedule was a tasty one, with the Lions exploding for four goals in a beatdown of Toronto FC prior to the more usual holiday fireworks display in the sky above Exploria Stadium afterward. Cesar Araujo, Rafael Santos, Wilder Cartagena, and others starred on a night that never seemed in doubt once Duncan McGuire’s flick beat former Lion Greg Ranjitsingh at the near post to make it 2-0. It’s also helpful in protecting a lead when the other team’s biggest scoring threat gets sent off. We break down the match and make our selections for Man of the Match. The mailbagbox questions for this episode wanted to know what things we’ve done recently four times in 90 minutes. We’ve got answers! Remember, if there’s anything — and we do mean anything — you want us to address on the show, just ask us by tweeting it to us at @TheManeLand with the hashtag #AskTMLPC. OCB will be back in action on Sunday night, with a kickoff time sandwiched between the United States women and the USMNT matches. (There I go with a second sandwich reference. I must be hungry.) Finally, we gave our key matchups and score predictions for Saturday night’s late match between Orlando City and Real Salt Lake. One player we didn’t mention for RSL was Chicho Arango, RSL’s new Designated Player. According to Real Salt Lake’s game notes, he is eligible to play on Saturday. It doesn’t change our key matchups or score predictions, but he’s definitely a player to watch. Here’s how No. 359 went down: 0:15 – Orlando City dominated Toronto FC…which…they really should have. 23:09 – It’s mailbagbox time! And a brief mention of OCB’s upcoming match. 33:47 – Our key matchups and score predictions for a trip to Utah to face RSL.  PawedCast Episode 360: RSL Rewind, OCB-Huntsville, and a New Homegrown Signing SkoPurp Soccer Episode 13: Spirit Rewind, Orlando Pride Transfers, OL Reign Preview, and More Lion Links: 8/19/24 Predicting Orlando City’s Remaining August Matches Lion Links: 8/16/24 The Pride lock down Head Coach Seb Hines for a couple more years, Pride players earn Olympic medals, and more. Published on By The Pride were off this weekend, but that doesn’t mean there wasn’t news out of the club. Orlando signed Head Coach Seb Hines to a new contract through the 2026 NWSL season with an option year for 2027. That’s great news after the turnaround the club has experienced under Hines’ stewardship. We discuss Hines’ beginnings with the club, his rise to success, and what the deal means moving forward. We also discuss the many smiles of Seb Hines, which are numerous and each has its own purpose Our mailbagbox asked us how long we think some of the Pride’s brightest stars will hang around. Remember, you can ask us anything by hitting us up on Twitter at either @TheManeLand or @SkoPurpSoccer and using the hashtag #AskSkoPurp. Or you can visit our show page, scroll down, and fill out the handy form. We’d also appreciate any ratings or reviews you can leave wherever you get your podcasts, and if you do that on Apple Podcasts, we’ll find them easily and read them on the show. After the mailbagbox, we discuss Kerry Abello’s great month of July, taking a brief side trip to again enjoy the weirdness of her Orlando Health commercial.  Finally, we discuss the 2024 Olympic gold medal match between the United States and Brazil, which featured four Pride players on the pitch and another who got a gold medal. We are ultimately happy the team we support won the gold, but we can’t help but feel a bit sad for Marta not winning the championship. What was with Brazil not starting her, anyway? Here’s how Episode 56 went down: 0:15 – The Pride extended Seb Hines’ stay in Orlando with a new contract. 15:58 – The mailbagbox is worried good players will leave the Pride. 26:28 – Kerry Abello wins monthly NWSL accolades and several Orlando players win Olympic medals. The Lions left the Leagues Cup without losing, OCB copied the first team, and much more. Published on By Orlando City is out of the Leagues Cup and must now wait a couple of weeks before resuming the regular season at Sporting Kansas City. The Lions have nothing to hang their heads about after largely outplaying a good Cruz Azul side in a 0-0 home draw Friday. A little bit more lethality in front of goal and Orlando City would have moved on, but instead, the game went to penalties to decide who advanced and for the first time in club history, it was not the Lions after spot kicks. We break down some of the near misses (and outright misses) and the shootout, look back at our score predictions (hey, it’s perfectly fine if you hate on Dave for breathing a shootout loss into existence), and make our selections for Man of the Match. This episode’s mailbagbox asks us about Orlando City yellow cards and what the bench will look like when the regular season resumes. Remember, if there’s anything — and we do mean anything — you want us to address on the show, just ask us by tweeting it to us at @TheManeLand with the hashtag #AskTMLPC, or hitting us up on Bluesky Social with that same hashtag. After the mailbagbox, we looked back at Sunday’s OCB match against Crown Legacy. The Young Lions tried to emulate the first team by playing to a scoreless home draw and then losing the shootout. But this was a regular-season contest against a team the Young Lions are chasing in the playoff race. We did not like the outcome, nor did we enjoy Thomas Williams getting sent off. We especially disliked the penalties OCB failed to score. Hopefully things will be better this weekend when the Young Lions host NYCFC II. Be sure to rate and review our show wherever you get your podcasts. Remember, we’ll read any five-star reviews we get on Apple Podcasts on the next show. Here’s how No. 440 went down: 0:15 – Orlando City didn’t lose but nonetheless is done in the 2024 Leagues Cup. We discuss why. 22:28 – The mailbagbox is curious about the Orlando City bench and trivia. 35:10 – OCB fails to get a much-needed home win and time is quickly running out on a playoff run.  A discussion of OCSC signing rumors from the internet, OCB’s home game vs. Crown Legacy, and the Lions against Cruz Azul. Published on By [Editor’s note: Big thanks to WJ Dog Treats (wjdogtreats.com) for sponsoring the mailbagbox segment of The Mane Land PawedCast. WJ Dog Treats is a small, family-run company of Orlando City fans who are committed to producing healthy, high-quality dog treats with just five ingredients, including their own home-made peanut butter. Give them a try. If you use the code TML at checkout, you’ll get a dollar off a bag of treats for your pooch!] Since we already discussed Orlando City’s match last weekend against Atletico San Luis, we focused the first part of this episode on internet rumors. The Lions have been linked with Norwegian youth international midfielder Heine Gikling Bruseth, who is currently with Kristiansund BK in Norway’s top flight. This might be an MLS U22 Initiative signing, it may not happen at all, or it could be something in between. We discuss the position and the possible upside of the move. Orlando is also rumored to be signing OCB winger Yutaro Tsukada to a first-team deal for the 2025 season with a couple of option years. That’s possible, but the Lions have no shortage of first-team wing players, so this could be a matter of liking what the club sees in Tsukada’s development and playing a waiting game to see if he can continue his upward trajectory.  Following our internet rumors discussion, we look ahead to OCB’s match Sunday at home against Crown Legacy. This is a proverbial six-point game, and the Young Lions can’t afford to drop points at home against teams that they’re chasing in the playoff race. It’ll be interesting to see what the lineup looks like and how OCB handles the pressure situation. This episode’s mailbagbox, presented by WJ Dog Treats, asks us about Michael Halliday’s status and which Lions we enjoyed during the club’s USL days. Remember, if there’s anything — and we do mean anything — you want us to address on the show, just ask us by tweeting it to us at @TheManeLand with the hashtag #AskTMLPC, or hitting us up on Bluesky Social with that same hashtag. After the mailbagbox, we looked ahead to tonight’s matchup between Orlando City and Liga MX side Cruz Azul. It’s a tough second-place team for the Lions to have drawn, and speaking of draws, Cruz Azul has two of them so far in this competition, losing the penalty shootout to Charlotte, but besting the Philadelphia Union from the spot. We provide our key matchups and score predictions for what is sure to be a nervy match.  Be sure to rate and review our show wherever you get your podcasts. Remember, we’ll read any five-star reviews we get on Apple Podcasts on the next show. Here’s how No. 439 went down: 0:15 – Orlando City may or may not sign a young central midfielder and/or a winger that plays for its reserve side. Plus, OCB has a big match this weekend. 15:37 – The mailbagbox (presented by WJ Dog Treats) asks about an injured fullback and gets nostalgiac for the pre-MLS days. 30:25 – A battle awaits against Cruz Azul. We preview it.  Orlando City vs. Cruz Azul, Leagues Cup: Preview, How to Watch, TV Info, Live Stream, Lineups, Match Thread, and More Orlando Pride Sign Head Coach Seb Hines Through 2027 Lion Links: 8/9/24 Lion Links: 8/5/24 Orlando City vs. Atletico San Luis, Leagues Cup: Final Score 1-1 as 10-man Lions Draw, Win Shootout Orlando City vs. Cruz Azul, Leagues Cup: Final Score 0-0 as Lions Crash Out of Leagues Cup on First Ever Shootout Loss How Much Longer will Duncan McGuire be Dunc-ing on Orlando City’s Opponents? Orlando City vs. Atlético San Luis, Leagues Cup: Photo Gallery Copyright © 2023 The Mane Land. Our club is massive. Vamos Orlando!