Get local news delivered to your inbox!      Virginia’s Margot Appleton, second from right, competes in the Virginia Invitational at Panorama Farms. The Virginia men’s and women’s cross country programs hosted the Virginia Invitational, the first of three major meets at Panorama Farms this season, on Saturday. Later this season, Panorama Farms will host the NCAA Cross Country Championships on Nov. 18 and XC23 Pre-National on Oct. 14, which will serve as an opportunity for NCAA Division I teams from across the country to preview the course. Saturday’s meet was headlined by Margot Appleton, whose third-place finish helped the Cavalier women place third as a team. Gary Martin led the Virginia men to a seventh-place finish as he crossed the line 13th overall. “Both the women and the men did a great job,” Vin Lananna, Virginia’s Director of Cross Country and Track & Field, said. “I think it’s always good to get one of these under your belt so that you know what to expect as you approach the championship portion of the season. We always say we were going to take half the season up to this point and then start getting ready for the championship, so, it was a good start.” The No. 6 Virginia field hockey team picked up a 3-2 victory over No. 10 Syracuse in double overtime on Friday at J.S. Coyne Stadium in Syracuse, N.Y. The Cavaliers (6-3, 1-1 ACC) led 2-1 at halftime before the Orange (6-2, 0-2 ACC) tied the game 3:37 into the fourth quarter. The score remained knotted at 2-2 until Adele Iacobucci scored the game-winner with 26.8 seconds remaining in the second overtime. Daniela Mendez-Trendler and Laura Janssen also scored a goal for Virginia, which got seven saves from Tyler Kennedy. “The good thing about that game was we needed to win it,” Virginia coach Michele Madison said. “And the second best thing about the game was that we won it and we won it with a great team effort. ...We needed minutes from everyone, especially in the overtime and we were able to pull out the victory against a very good Syracuse team.” The No. 22 Virginia women’s soccer team (5-2-3, 0-2-1 ACC) suffered a 2-0 road loss to Wake Forest on Sunday after a late surge from the Demon Deacons. Anna Swanson and Hannah Johnson each scored a goal in the second half for Wake Forest (7-1-2, 1-1-1 ACC). Virginia goalkeeper Cayla White posted a season-high seven saves in the match. “We fought and we battled, but in the end the better team won today,” Virginia coach Steve Swanson said. “I thought Wake Forest did a good job disrupting our attack. They picked off a lot of passes, which started their transition game, and they are very good in that phase. We are finding out a lot about our team now which hopefully will help us as we move forward in the season.” The Virginia men’s soccer team fell 3-1 to No. 15 Notre Dame on Friday night at Alumni Stadium in South Bend, Ind. After falling behind 2-0, the Cavaliers (4-3-1, 1-2 ACC) roared back into the game in the second half. A cross from Reese Miller deflected off of Notre Dame’s Mo Williams and into the back of the net to make the score 2-1, then the Cavaliers came within inches of leveling the score in the 59th minute. On the play, Kome Ubogu fired a shot from inside the penalty area that was saved by the goalkeeper. Collecting his own rebound, Ubogu played a low ball across the face of goal which found the feet of Annor but was sent just wide. In the 75th minute, Notre Dame (5-1-3, 2-0-1 ACC) pushed its lead back to two goals when Eno Nto found the back of the net and the Irish hung on from there. The Virginia volleyball team (7-5, 0-2 ACC) dropped a pair of ACC contests over the weekend, falling to North Carolina on Friday and Duke on Sunday. On Friday, the Cavaliers fell in three sets (25-21, 25-18, 25-23) to the Tar Heels at Carmichael Arena in Chapel Hill, N.C. Virginia was led by Abby Tadder, who tallied 10 kills on 21 swings. On Sunday, Duke (10-3, 1-1 ACC) handed the Hoos a 25-12, 25-21, 25-18 loss at Cameron Indoor Stadium. The Cavaliers struggled offensively, hitting just .029, while the Blue Devils hit .231. Duke also tallied five aces, while UVa did not register a single point from behind the service line. Members of the Virginia men’s tennis team competed at the Orange & Blue Classic over the weekend at the Boar’s Head Sports Club. The team’s only home tournament of the fall was played indoors on Saturday and outdoors on Friday and Sunday. Players from Vanderbilt, Penn, Virginia Tech and Virginia competed as individuals in the tournament in singles and doubles matches. Alexander Kiefer and James Hopper both went 3-0 in singles in the tournament, while the doubles tandem of Edoardo Graziani and Chris Rodesch picked up three doubles victories. The Cavaliers went 12-7 in singles and 4-4 in doubles. Virginia women’s tennis player Sara Ziodato won her singles and doubles flights at the Fall Ranked Spotlight tournament, which was held Thursday through Sunday at the Cary Tennis Center in Cary, N.C. Ziodato won the 32-player A2 Singles draw and partnered with fellow senior Hibah Shaikh to win three doubles matches in the G-H round-robin. On deck this week Football: The Cavaliers travel to Boston College on Saturday for a 2 p.m. matchup. The game will air on The CW. Men’s soccer: Virginia hosts ETSU on Tuesday and Louisville on Friday. Both games are scheduled to kick off at 7 p.m. Women’s soccer: UVa hosts No. 16 Duke on Sunday at noon at Klöckner Stadium. Field hockey: The Cavaliers travel to No. 4 Louisville on Friday for a 3 p.m. matchup, then travel to Miami (Ohio) on Sunday for a noon tilt. Volleyball: Virginia plays host to Syracuse on Friday at 7 p.m. and Boston College on Sunday at 1 p.m.. Women’s golf: UVa are competing in the Glass City Intercollegiate at Inverness Country Club in Toledo, Ohio, on Monday and Tuesday. Get local news delivered to your inbox!  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.