
Published: Jan 25, 2023 04:00 am 
 League of Legends season 13 is well and truly in swing now, and the Riot Games developers are already making sweeping changes to the League meta through a pile of buffs, nerfs, and changes as the year’s best and worst champions begin to make themselves known across Summoner’s Rift. Next up in League’s fortnightly updates is Patch 13.1b, which is just as weighty—if not even more so⁠—than season 13’s first patch. Lilia, Heimerdinger, and Orianna lead the raft of champion changes, while 23 items (and counting) are under the microscope. On top of the bountiful change list, the Riot devs have locked in more Lunar-themed skin and cosmetics for the month’s second patch cycle. Here’s everything you need to know about League Patch 13.2 (13.1B). The first update of 2023 was supposed to roll out on Wednesday, Jan. 25, according to Riot’s patch schedule. But due to an unexpected social engineering attack, Patch 13.2 has been delayed and broken down into hotfix micropatches. According to Riot PR, there will be two micropatches in total, with each introducing one part of the already announced balancing changes. While Patch 13.1b is scheduled for Jan.25, Patch 13.1c’s release date will remain a mystery until further notice. Some of the new content that was supposed to come to League with Patch 13.2, namely Ahri’s ASU, will be delayed until Patch 13.3 in early February. Dot Esports has got its hands on plenty of League Patch 13.2 changes on the League PBE, but the developers didn’t share their usual patch preview this week.  After a day of silence, the Riot devs confirmed this was due to a “social engineering attack” the studio suffered days before, which has now thrown the January update into disarray. Patch 13.2 will be broken down into two micropatches that will ship balancing changes, according to Riot PR. Unfortunately, the Ahri ASU and other fresh content will have to wait until Patch 13.3 early in February. Read: Riot hit by ‘social engineering attack’ that will affect patch cadence Annie was supposed to be at the forefront of 13.2 changes after going nearly a year without any tweaks to her abilities (the last time she got changes was Patch 12.12). The Dark Child has slipped into “niche pick” range early in season 13 and Riot is trying to fix that in this update. To boost her play rate and win rate alike, the League devs are hiking up numbers for her stun-heavy passive (Pyromania), W (Incinerate), E (Molten Shield), and her famous Tibbers ultimate. The changes will most likely go live with Patch 13.1c that still doesn’t have a set-in-stone release date. Read: All tentative Annie buffs and changes shipping in League Patch 13.2 Right now, the Ahri art and sustainability update, which will refresh the Nine-Tailed Fox’s animation in-game as well as her audio and skin designs up to scratch for modern League, has been penned in for a Patch 13.2 release. Unfortunately, Riot revealed Ahri’s ASU will be pushed to Patch 13.3 after the cyber attack scuppered much of its January patch plans. The new-look Ahri update will land early in February. Read: League of Legends Ahri ASU: When it releases, new splash art, more Bot laners⁠—or more specifically, AD carry mains⁠—are getting a fair bit of love in League Patch 13.2, with a dozen marksmen getting mana buffs and ability changes. The sweeping ADC buffs, revealed by LCS commentator-turned-Riot developer David “Phreak” Turley on Jan. 14, are expected to hit Ashe, Caitlyn, Ezreal, Jhin, Jinx, Kai’Sa, Lucian, Miss Fortune, Senna, Sivir, Twitch, and Xayah. They will focus on mana, including base starting pools, growth, regen, and more. Read: Marksmen getting big mana buffs in League Patch 13.2 The Lunar New Year’s celebrations roll on this patch, with another six themed cosmetics coming for Ashe, Kha’Zix, Malphite, Qiyana, Thresh, and Lissandra, the last of which is getting a stunning new Prestige skin. Here are all the new skins coming in Patch 13.2 (13.1b): These skins will likely all go live across the span of the League 13.2 update. Here are the patch notes for the Jan. 24 update, which is rolling out as a series of micropatches. Until Riot has released all two of these League micropatches, consider any unshipped changes still tentative for the time being. Update Jan. 24 8:50am CT: Added more details on release date and Ahri ASU. Update Jan. 22 11:17pm CT: Added more details on Ahri ASU, including the possibility it is delayed until League Patch 13.3. Update Jan. 18 6:31pm CT: Added 13.2 PBE leaks. Update Jan. 17 10:44pm CT: Added skin details, early patch preview.