Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more With Act 1 of Valorant: Evolution coming to a close in the coming days, Riot Games has shown off a brand-new look at the game’s next new map, Sunset. Riot Games calls players to “Peel back the KINGDOM curtain for a look at Sunset: a vibrant new map set right in Gekko’s stomping grounds”. Sunset is set to come to Valorant alongside the beginning of Episode 7 Act 2 on August 29. Alongside Sunset’s addition, players can try out even more new content with the next Act’s Battle Pass. When speaking about the addition of Sunset into the map roster, Lead Map Designer on Valorant, Joe Lansford, said, “Valorant has several versions of the three-lane map formula, but we haven’t made one with a strong focus on mid-control in a long time – Enter Sunset”. He continued. “Sunset features a mid that is fairly difficult to control and doesn’t really favour one team or another; it’s generally good for rifle ranges and opens up a bunch of opportunities for whichever team can take it. We expect to see both teams make mid-control a central part of their strategy on Sunset.” For those who’ve ever been to or live in LA, you might notice some of the city’s mainstays featured in Sunset, including food trucks and a skate park. “We took most of our artistic inspiration from right here in our backyard. You’ll find many staples from our diverse LA culture across the map. Everything from food trucks, traffic jams and art deco architecture to neon sunsets.” says Lansford. As mentioned, Sunset will release alongside Episode 7 Act 2 on August 29, 2023. In other Valorant news, Valorant fans are in awe of this ‘absurd’ 1v4 ace, and Valorant Ignite Capsule lets you get the Kitana after all – but only if you’re quick. No products found. Odhrán Johnson is a Freelance News Writer for VideoGamer. He loves indie games and everything to do with Mass Effect. 
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
