MLB The immediate shock of removing a player from the depth chart who batted 889 times more than any other Phillie since 2017 is jarring. Imagining the 2023 Phillies without Rhys Hoskins is a difficult exercise, but when it happens less than a week before Opening Day, the front office has to take quick action. Advertisement Dave Dombrowski, the veteran president of baseball operations, made this much clear when he met with reporters in Florida: Darick Hall will have a chance to be a regular in the majors. Dombrowski told The Philadelphia Inquirer that Hall would see the “majority of playing time” at first base. But he would not commit to Hall playing against lefties; the Phillies resisted doing that last season when Hall was a lineup mainstay. The Phillies spent Thursday night gathering information about the situation. They canvassed their analysts and scouts for ideas and sent them on fact-finding missions Friday morning. Then, in the afternoon, the coaching staff was set to meet with team officials to discuss roster permutations. It is wise to never eliminate a possible Dombrowski move — even late in spring training. “We’re open to a lot of things at this point,” Dombrowski told reporters. Based on conversations with team officials and rival evaluators in the wake of the Hoskins injury, here is one guess at a potential Opening Day roster for the Phillies. J.T. Realmuto, Garrett Stubbs Stubbs, who injured his right knee while playing with Team Israel in the World Baseball Classic, has not played in a game for more than 10 days. But he took batting practice this week and caught bullpen sessions. The club is not concerned about his readiness for Opening Day. Plus, as Stubbs joked, he won’t be needed until the sixth game anyway. That’s life as Realmuto’s backup. The Phillies would like to keep three catchers at Triple-A Lehigh Valley, although Aramis Garcia could draw interest from other clubs that can offer him a better opportunity. Rafael Marchan has been sidelined for most of the spring with a hamate injury. He might need to begin the minor-league season on the injured list. Marchan is on the 40-man roster. John Hicks was one of the Phillies’ first signings during the offseason; he’d go to Triple A as a veteran presence there. Advertisement Darick Hall, Bryson Stott, Trea Turner, Alec Bohm, Edmundo Sosa, Josh Harrison, right-handed-hitting first baseman not currently in the organization Is this cheating? Maybe. But the path of least resistance, right now, is for the Phillies to move forward with some sort of platoon at first base between Hall and someone who hits right-handed. It would not be difficult to move Bohm across the diamond whenever the Phillies face a lefty, but doing so would prevent them from deploying Sosa at either second base or center field because he’d be needed at third base. Yes, Harrison could play second while Sosa is at third. But the guess here is the Phillies would like to avoid using both of those utilitymen in the lineup at the same time. Plus, someone has to DH for the first few months, and Bohm could take a chunk of those at-bats while Sosa plays third base. There are different ways to approach this. Dombrowski has left the door ajar for an external addition. There is not an abundance of righty-hitting platoon first basemen available. Luke Voit, who is in Brewers camp on a minor-league deal, is someone to consider. So is Bobby Dalbec, a former Dombrowski draft pick in Boston, who might be expendable for the Red Sox. Maybe the Mets part ways with old friend Darin Ruf, who still can mash lefties. The Yankees are a team to monitor. If they carry their young infield prospects on the roster to begin the season, that could make either Josh Donaldson or Gleyber Torres available in a trade. This would be a much larger commitment by the Phillies than adding a platoon first baseman. Perhaps the situation — a high-priced roster with championship hopes after falling two wins shy — calls for a significant response to the Hoskins injury. The wild card in all of this is Scott Kingery. He’s had a solid spring. He has made the Phillies think about him again, and that is an accomplishment. If Kingery begins the season at Triple A and continues to show promise, it’s not far-fetched to imagine a scenario this summer where he’s playing third base and Bohm is the first baseman. Advertisement That, among other reasons, is why the Phillies will probably aim for makeshift solutions to begin the season. It’s worth keeping different ideas in play. Kyle Schwarber, Brandon Marsh, Nick Castellanos, Jake Cave Cave, at the start of the season, could see significant playing time when a righty is on the mound. Schwarber, in those situations, could be the DH. So could Castellanos. Cave has hit the ball harder than just about anyone this spring. He’s discussed how good he feels physically and mentally. He was a waiver claim in the offseason who looked like an odd fit considering both Schwarber and Marsh bat left-handed. But Cave not only has a place on this roster — he also could be in the lineup come Opening Day. Aaron Nola, Zack Wheeler, Taijuan Walker, Bailey Falter, Matt Strahm Strahm, technically, is listed here although he might not start the fifth game of the season. It’s possible the Phillies open a game against the Yankees with a righty reliever to face Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton, then turn to Strahm for some bulk work in the second inning. The Phillies are optimistic it won’t take Ranger Suárez too long to return to the rotation, but the inflammation in his left elbow has lingered for a few weeks now. Strahm will likely have to take a few turns in the rotation. (The Phillies do not plan to skip the fifth spot in the season’s first week.) It goes without saying, but the Phillies really (really) need Nola and Wheeler and Walker to stay healthy. Seranthony Domínguez, José Alvarado, Gregory Soto, Craig Kimbrel, Connor Brogdon, Andrew Bellatti, Yunior Marte, Andrew Vasquez Marte, acquired in a small trade with the Giants in January, was a revelation this spring. He fired quality strikes with his high-90s heater. The only adjustment the Phillies suggested, Marte said, was to throw his fastball up against lefty hitters. “They were very honest with me,” Marte, 28, said through a team interpreter. “They said, ‘We traded for you for a reason. We like what we see in you.'” With Strahm sort of being in the rotation in this projection, it opens another bullpen spot. It could be Vasquez, Luis Ortiz or Erich Uelmen. All three are on the 40-man roster. All three have had up-and-down springs. Vasquez is the only one out of minor-league options and he’s left-handed, so he makes it by default. Advertisement Michael Plassmeyer could be a bullpen consideration, but since the Phillies are thin in rotation depth, it makes sense to have him pitching on a regular starter’s routine at Triple A as insurance. Most of the relievers who entered the spring as locks for the bullpen have had strong Grapefruit League performances. Bryce Harper, Rhys Hoskins, Nick Nelson, Cristopher Sánchez, Ranger Suárez, Noah Song The Phillies need to make a roster move to transfer Song from the military list to the 40-man roster (and then the IL). They can do that by simply placing Hoskins on the 60-day IL. (Top photo of Darick Hall: Chris O’Meara / Associated Press) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Matt Gelb  is a senior writer for The Athletic covering the Philadelphia Phillies. He has covered the team since 2010 while at The Philadelphia Inquirer, including a yearlong pause from baseball as a reporter on the city desk. He is a graduate of Syracuse University and Central Bucks High School West. 