Rain showers this morning with numerous thunderstorms developing during the afternoon hours. Potential for heavy rainfall. High 78F. Winds SSE at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 70%..
                                 Thunderstorms this evening, then skies turning partly cloudy after midnight. Low near 60F. Winds NW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 70%.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:04 am   We were sorry to read of the passing of Ed Dupont, a quiet, hard-working soul who brought his all to help New Hampshire in ways large and small. From Rochester, he served in the state Senate for five terms, ending his tenure there as its president. He made a run at governor but, like many who are powerful in Concord, his record didn’t translate into success for statewide office. He also worked for another able politician who could not leverage a local record into a national one. That would be Delaware’s Pete DuPont, who ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. Ed Dupont kept on keeping on. He was appointed to the University System of New Hampshire Board of Trustees and was elected its chairman. Not bad for a kid who dropped out of UNH and went into business for himself. He was also a pilot, an auto racer, and the head of one of the state’s largest lobbying firms. Godspeed, Ed Dupont. In his recent piece for this newspaper, Manchester Police Chief Allen Aldenberg had some good advice for citizens on the continuing efforts to deal with homelessness.  A local story that caught our eye last month had to do with kids at the Salvation Army Kids Cafe getting together to help with the annual Gail Singer Memorial Blood Drive. It is hard to believe this will be the 41st drive in honor of a member of the Singer family who was taken much, much too soon.  It has been more than a week since a New Hampshire Supreme Court justice was suddenly placed on paid “administrative leave.”  The Ohio Supreme Court has ruled against a man who nearly died from swallowing a chicken bone that was in a “boneless” wing he ordered. It’s the kind of story that could make one choke on their morning muffin.  Gov. Chris Sununu has done exactly the right thing by signing into law bills that are aimed at protecting our children from harm. Most of those who are complaining about this are cynically attempting to gain political advantage by doing so. It is unlikely to succeed and may backfire.  Wind power can make a lot of sense in places where the wind prevails. But it is not without its down sides, and that’s not just along North American bird flyways or in picturesque settings where the view really does matter.  The failure of the Secret Service to protect a former and perhaps future president from an assassination attempt a week ago is stunning and inexcusable. It further advances the argument that incompetence has taken root in key government agencies.  Is it something wrong with the law or is it less than proper enforcement that is allowing dangerous drunk drivers to continue to roam free in New Hampshire?  With all the bad news of this long, hot summer, it was nice to see a positive photo on the Union Leader’s front page a week ago. We hope the picture does indeed lead to a thousand or so good words in the near future.  Manchester Mayor Jay Ruais and aldermen did the right thing in shutting down overnight camping on public property, including on streets and in our public parks. The action, which follows a U.S. Supreme Court ruling, will neither “dehumanize” nor “criminalize” homeless individuals, despite th…  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.