CRANBURY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Accutar Biotechnology, Inc., a biotechnology company focusing on artificial intelligence (AI)-empowered drug discovery, today announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has cleared the company’s investigational new drug application (IND) for AC0676 for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies. AC0676 is an orally bioavailable, chimeric degrader molecule designed to target and degrade Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) with high potency, selectivity, and broad mutant coverage. BTK plays a crucial role in the B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway, and its constitutive activation is essential to the pathophysiology of many B-cell malignancies. Accutar expects to begin enrollment of a Phase 1 clinical trial for AC0676 in the beginning of the second quarter of 2023.
 
“The IND clearance for AC0676 is another important validation that our protein crystallography and AI platforms can support and advance the discovery of potentially differentiated clinical candidates quickly, especially complex compounds such as chimeric degraders. It marks Accutar as the first company to successfully bring oral chimeric degraders against three different targets into clinics,” said Jie Fan, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer, Accutar Biotechnology, Inc. “The IND clearance for AC0676 is also critical towards offering a potential new treatment option for B-cell malignancies based on a differentiated mechanism of action from covalent and non-covalent BTK inhibitors by removing both kinase and scaffolding functions of BTK. We look forward to the clinical benefit that AC0676 treatment can potentially provide to patients.”
 
The Phase 1 study will assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of AC0676 treatment in patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies.
 
About AC0676
 
AC0676 is an investigational orally bioavailable, chimeric degrader of Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) for the potential treatment of relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies. In preclinical studies, AC0676 has demonstrated potent and selective BTK protein degradation with broad coverage of BTK wildtype and mutants (including C481S, L528W, and others), favorable pharmacological properties, as well as promising anti-tumor activities in animal models.
 
About Accutar Biotechnology, Inc.
 
Accutar is a clinical stage biotech company focused on AI-empowered drug discovery, and its application to the discovery and development of clinically differentiated medicines.
 
Be transformative. For patients.
 
To learn more about Accutar, please visit us at www.accutarbio.com.
 
Jiaqiren@accutarbio.com
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.