Get the M.E.N.'s Manchester Family newsletter for all the latest from back to school news to ways to entertain the kids We have more newsletters Get the M.E.N.'s Manchester Family newsletter for all the latest from back to school news to ways to entertain the kids We have more newsletters If there's one thing most kids love doing it's gaming. Whether it's creating their own world in Minecraft or shouting down the mic while playing Fortnite with their friends, they rarely tire of online games. But it seems not every gaming fan is aware of a hidden gem inside our very own Trafford Centre. Read more: Things to do with kids in and around Manchester this February half term Upstairs in the GAME store is Belong's Manchester Swarm Arena and it's kitted out with every machine a gamer could want. There are high-end PCS, PlayStation Pros and Xboxes - 24 of each in fact, as well as GT Omega chairs and more. And as well as the favourites Fortnite and Minecraft, visitors can play everything from Roblox and Rocket League to Overwatch and League of Legends. I took my 12-year-old son and his friend to give it a try last weekend and it was like all their Christmases had come at once. At this age, they wouldn't do much else at the shopping centre, apart from grabbing a bite to eat perhaps, so it's a great place for them to stop off for a while if you have a shopping trip planned and they don't want to follow you around. Even though it was a busy Saturday afternoon, they were able to get on a machine straight away and there were staff on hand to help them get set up. The prices are reasonable too, but if you're going to be calling there even twice in a month, it makes more sense to sign up for a monthly pass, which gives them unlimited play for £15, no matter how many times they go. It only lasts for the month you buy it in though - rather than four weeks from purchase date - so you need to buy it at the start of a month to get the most out of it. Not quite sure why they do it like that. If you don't want the unlimited pass then it's £5 for an hour's play, which you can book online, or £10 for the day, which you can only buy at the store. My son and his mate played for a couple of hours, then took a break and went back for more, so they'll easily have had their money's worth by the end of the month, especially with half term coming up. All that gaming is obviously thirsty work so there's a slush machine available too, with those costing £2 each for a pretty large cup, as well as other drinks and snacks including Pringles, Cheddars, Jaffa Cakes and sweets. Manchester Swarm Arena is actually one of 21 Belong sites and has been open since 2016. It's surprising how many people are still unaware of its existence though. A spokesperson for Belong Gaming said: "Our Manchester Swarm arena has an amazing gaming community and is popular amongst both younger and older generations. Belong has been through a lot of change in the years since our Trafford Centre arena opened in 2016, and the pandemic stopped our communities doing what they loved for the best part of nearly two years.  "But now Belong is back and the Manchester Swarm would love to welcome new members of the local community. Come on down if you’re interested in grassroot esports, community nights, free to play events or just want to play on the best tech."  The venue also hosts birthday parties, costing £99 for up to six desks. To find out more details, or to book, visit the website. Read more of today's top stories here READ NEXT: I compared supermarket's 52p beans and sausages with Heinz and it's made me angry We tried the ice cream parlour that has customers queuing out of the door even in winter Manchester's free hidden play centre in the heart of the city centre Prime drink ranked - we rate every flavour from KSI and Logan Paul I did a big shop at the 'posh' supermarket saving people money and see why it's turning heads 