PC game on a budget with one of these value-forward machines. Gear-obsessed editors choose every product we review. We may earn commission if you buy from a link. Why Trust Us? A lightning-fast gaming laptop costs a pretty penny, especially if it’s the latest and greatest. Let’s face it: Not everyone has the bank account to purchase a gaming machine triple the cost of an industry-leading home console. That’s where budget gaming laptops come in. You can grab a cheap gaming laptop for under $500 to run contemporary games at the lowest resolutions available (you can change this in the game menus), but they’re surprisingly reliable when playing or emulating classic games that were cutting-edge decades ago.  Sandbox games like Roblox and Minecraft also do well on cheap gaming laptops because of their simplistic graphics. If you’re looking for the best cheap gaming laptops under $500, consider these machines from ASUS, Acer, Lenovo, and more. Play longer with our picks for the best gaming tablets, gifts for gamers, and gaming chairs, according to Reddit.  “Any gaming laptop that retails for $500 is likely to play games at low settings if run them at all,” says Hunter Fenollol, Popular Mechanics tech editor. “On top of that, you can’t upgrade a laptop like you can a computer tower, so you can’t swap in a new GPU or CPU and make the most out of it.” Hunter says customization is executed better on a gaming desktop—but there's still hope if you need a portable gaming machine on a budget.  Not many laptops are built for gaming under $500, if at all, so our list comprises the fastest, strongest devices available at this price point—computers that are just as good workhorses as they are gaming machines. Consider these key specs when browsing for a value-forward gaming machine.  It’s essential to consider the graphics processing unit, or GPU, when shopping for any computer. If you’re grabbing a laptop under $500, chances are it’ll come with an integrated graphics card, which is a GPU built directly into the processor of a laptop. This means you can’t swap them out like their better alternative, dedicated graphics cards. Dedicated graphics cards provide the computer with a separate memory bank for running graphics and video, while integrated cards use the machine’s existing processor, sharing the load with the central processing unit, or CPU. Integrated graphics cards aren’t ideal for gaming, but they’re much cheaper. They also use less power, which increases the device's battery life and generates less heat. You’ll likely need to scale back graphics settings while playing newer games to avoid laggy gameplay while using cheap laptops with integrated graphics cards. If you're curious about what games a device's integrated graphics card can handle, plenty of videos on YouTube showcase specific cards running various games. This is a great way to check if a machine can run titles like Fortnite, Roblox, Counter-Strike: Source, and Minecraft.  Random-access memory, or RAM, is a computer’s short-term memory. The more gigabytes of RAM, the faster your device can process multiple tasks at once, such as browsing the web, streaming music via an app, and exporting a video. Skew toward higher RAM to ensure less lag and frame rate issues. We recommend at least 8 GB. The CPU is the machine's brain. The higher the CPU speed, the faster your computer can run tasks and programs. However, if your laptop has an integrated graphics card, your CPU also executes graphics calculations, slowing down your computer’s processing power. A CPU’s speed is measured in gigahertz. While not always the case, the higher the gigahertz, the faster the computer processing speed. For gaming laptops that cost less than $500, it'll be tough to find super speedy processors. One way to get around this is to only run one program at a time when you're gaming. You'll be hard-pressed to find a cheap laptop with ample storage for the large save files from games like Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War, so you might find yourself deleting old games to make room for new ones. Opt for higher storage, ideally SSD storage, if you digitally hoard video games on your devices. Alternatively, you can purchase an external hard drive to expand your horizons. The best cheap gaming laptops under $500 are reliable, budget-friendly, and capable of running most games, even if only at their lowest resolutions and frame rates. To find the top contenders, we consulted our tech editor, Hunter Fenollol, and our guides to the best laptops under $500 and the best cheap gaming laptops under $1,500.  We also checked out what trusted publications like Popular Science, Futurism, and Tech Guided have to say about cheap gaming laptops. We considered what options users love based on user ratings, reviews, and bestselling options at retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart, ultimately settling on this selection of the best budget-friendly laptops for playing video games.  Acer’s Aspire 5 Slim is a laptop that can easily handle simple tasks and low-res games. Its well-rounded specs offer decent performance and storage options at a low cost, while its 15.6-inch full HD display shows crisp imagery.  The 20 GB of RAM is great for handling multiple tabs and programs simultaneously, and with 512 GB of storage, you won’t have to delete files to make room for gaming for a while. It also has a built-in fingerprint reader for an extra security feature not found in most other budget laptops.  Critics say the Aspire 5 Slim is a surprisingly competent laptop and are impressed by its inclusion of a quad-core CPU. One critic even says it’s the cheapest way to play Roblox. Meanwhile, users say its light-up keyboard is an excellent addition, and that it’s a great, well-rounded laptop. This HP Pavilion laptop features a quad-core processor, 16 GB of RAM, and 1 TB of integrated storage space for solid speeds and space. Released last year, it uses the Intel UHD 600 for its graphics processing, which can handle games like Counter-Strike: Source and League of Legends without much trouble.  Users say this machine boots up quickly and works well with an external display. It also has excellent battery life according to reviewers, so you won’t have to worry about it dying during intense sessions. However, be wary of its less-than-ideal resolution, which doesn’t provide a full HD experience. If you’re looking for the cheapest laptop you can buy for gaming, HP’s budget Notebook 15-dy1008CA won’t set you back much. For less than $400, you’ll get a laptop with 256 GB of storage, 8 GB of RAM, and a number pad, which can be handy for gaming inputs.  It may not be the fastest laptop on this list, but it can run smaller games and less demanding classics. However, keep in mind that its display is less than ideal, with a resolution that’s less than the standard full HD at 1920 by 1080 pixels.  Those who want a touch screen for quick input should hop on this laptop. The Inspiron 15 3511 is strapped with an Intel Core i5-1035G1 quad-core processor for quick speeds and plenty of power, making it suitable for multitasking and light gaming.  The anti-glare screen in full HD makes browsing the net look crispy, while the easy-to-use touch screen helps you ditch the machine’s touchpad. Plenty of user reviews say this Dell can run notoriously heavy Adobe programs without terrible lag, and it's reliable for its price. It offers poor battery life, however, and many users say they have to stay plugged in when getting work done. If you’re looking for a laptop with expansive storage space, the Vivobook 15 is your best bet. For under $500, you can get a machine with 1 TB of storage, making it great for gamers with massive Steam libraries.  A CPU speed of up to 4.10 gigahertz makes it reasonably fast, while 12 GB of RAM is suitable for quickly sifting through tabs and programs. The Vivobook 15 is a favorite budget laptop among critics, and it currently holds a strong user rating at retailers like Amazon and Best Buy. Many users describe this laptop as fast, intuitive, and versatile enough for school or work use. Its thin bezel also accommodates more real estate for the 15.6-inch screen. From budget-brand Lenovo, the IdeaPad 3i is a suitable laptop for work, business, and light gaming. This lightweight laptop is fast enough to run most programs and tasks efficiently, plus it sports a fantastic webcam that makes Twitch streams and Discord calls clear and easy. It comes with 8 GB of RAM, but an extra module slot means it's possible to upgrade that short-term memory. Users say this laptop is surprisingly fast and capable for gaming as long as your game runs on low-res settings. The IdeaPad 3i even comes with an Xbox Game Pass trial to give its gaming possibilities a test run. However, many reviews indicate that the machine offers poor battery life and is loaded with bloatware, so it might take some time to set it up the way you like it. The Flexi 3i from Lenovo is a cheap Chromebook that can handle games just fine, thanks to its Intel Dual-Celeron N4020 graphics card.  Although it only has 4 GB of RAM and a low processing speed, many online reviews and videos showcase games like Counter-Strike: Source and Team Fortress 2 running without much choppiness. Though modern games like Fortnite and Smite present plenty of frame rate issues, this Chromebook is surprisingly well-suited for playing classic games like Half-Life 2 and Prince of Persia: Sands of Time. Users say the size of the laptop is perfect for taking on the road and that the touch screen is a nice bonus. As for downsides: Slow processing speeds may hinder numerous open tabs, and the screen isn't full HD. Kevin Cortez is an editor for Runner's World, Bicycling, and Popular Mechanics covering reviews. A culture and product journalist for over ten years, he’s an expert in men’s style, technology, gaming, coffee, e-bikes, hiking, gear, and all things outdoors. He most recently worked as the Style Editor for Reviewed, a top product recommendation site owned by USA TODAY. He also helped with the launch of WSJ's Buy Side commerce vertical, and has covered the music and podcast industries for Mass Appeal, Genius, Vulture, Leafly, Input, and The A.V. Club. Equally passionate about leisure as he is his penmanship, Kevin dedicates his spare time to graphic novels, birding, making cold brew, and taking long, meandering walks. The Best Gaming Desktops to Level Up Your Play The Best Post-Prime Day Arcade Deals 2024 The 8 Best Gaming Laptops Under $1,000 in 2024 The Atari 400 Mini Retro Game Console Review Nintendo Switch vs. OLED: Which Is Better? The Best SSDs for the PlayStation 5 Cyber Monday Gaming Deals 2023: Arcade1Up Sale The Best Xbox Cyber Monday Deals of 2023 Cybe Monday Gaming Deals 2023: Arcade1Up Sale The Best Cyber Monday PS5 Deals for 2023 The Best Black Friday PS5 Deals for 2023 Atari 2600+ Retro Gaming Console A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.