Share A South Side Chicago mom may have discovered 2023's most innovative parenting hack. CHICAGO - A South Side Chicago mom may have discovered 2023's most innovative parenting hack. Last Wednesday, Chariel Watson was trying to call her 11-year old daughter Miracle at home with a small favor: take the lasagna out of the freezer so it was thawed by the time she got home. After repeated attempts to get ahold of her daughter, Watson decided to use her phone to look for Miracle inside the virtual world called Roblox, an online gaming platform where many kids connect and play in real-time, in different games and different rooms. Sure enough, Watson found Miracle near a virtual beach, about to hop into a virtual car with cousins and friends, and asked her to thaw that lasagna. SUBSCRIBE TO FOX 32 ON YOUTUBE "When I got on there, my little cousin, she was getting ready to jump in the car, so they could drive off. I ran past my little cousin and jumped in the car. I'm like, ‘I know you see me calling you.’ She's like, ‘I'm sorry, mom.’ I'm like, ‘take the lasagna and the garlic bread out the freezer so I can cook it.’" The strategy worked like a charm. Watson told Fox 32 News the lasagna and garlic bread were delicious, and served on-time. All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. The Democratic National Convention speaker schedule for Monday is out and features several high-profile party members such as Hilllary Clinton and President Joe Biden. City of Chicago officials, alongside the United States Secret Service, will hold a series of daily public safety briefings during the Democratic National Convention. With all eyes on Chicago for the Democratic National Convention, several activist groups are planning on holding rallies and marches to draw attention to their platforms. The Democratic National Convention returns to Chicago today for the first time in 28 years to decide one half of a pivotal presidential election. The Democratic National Convention is shutting down several streets in downtown Chicago, disrupting the travel of locals and visitors making their way across the city. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX Television Stations