 The city issued a permit March 30 for Collins Aerospace to put in the foundation to expand its Blount Island production plant in North Jacksonville at a project cost of $1.065 million. Petrie Construction LLC of Aberdeen, Maryland, will build the 23,000-square-foot building on the 15.91-acre site where Collins Aerospace has about 115,000 square feet of production and warehouse buildings at 6061 BF Goodrich Blvd. Collins Aerospace is preparing to seek a permit for the almost $10.44 million construction of the building. A Terracon geotechnical report said the building will be used for the manufacture of submarine parts. It says a future 5,200-square-foot building and 2,925-square-foot covered storage area are planned to the west of the new building. Haskell Architects and Engineers is the civil engineer. The civil engineering plans refer to the project as Collins Hydem.  A project description says: “The purpose of the proposed building is to produce a new and more efficient space for the client to perform their business.” The site is on the eastern half of Blount Island and it borders the St. Johns River. A Haskell report said it previously was owned by BF Goodrich Inc. It is the only privately owned parcel on the eastern half of the island. Blount Island is occupied by the Jacksonville Port Authority’s Blount Island Marine Terminal and the U.S. Marine Corps. Support Facility Blount Island. Haskell submitted civil engineering plans to the city in February 2022. Collins Aerospace operates its Engineered Polymer Products division in Jacksonville. It says it develops and makes high-performance composite and elastomeric structures and products for marine applications.  “While the rest of UTC Aerospace Systems soars into the sky, Engineered Polymer Products dives into the sea,” it says. “Located in Jacksonville, Florida, EPP specializes in marine applications for surface ships and submarines.” The global aerospace and defense industry manufacturer also has a marine composites manufacturing plant in Imeson International Industrial Park. JAX Chamber reports that Collins Aerospace has 150 employees in Jacksonville. In announcing the Imeson location in February 2020, Collins said the Goodrich site makes mission-critical components to support military customers.  Collins Aerospace is a Raytheon Technologies company. It works in the global aerospace and defense industry. According to the Duval County Property Appraiser, the Goodrich Boulevard site is owned by BF Goodrich Co. in care of United Technologies in Farmington, Connecticut. United Technologies bought Goodrich in 2012. Collins Aerospace was created by the 2018 combination of UTC Aerospace Systems and Rockwell Collins. Raytheon Technologies Corp. was created in April 2020 from the merger of Raytheon Co. and United Technologies Corp.   Your free article limit has been reached this month.Subscribe now for unlimited digital access to our award-winning business news. Click here to Subscribe Click here to Login