
  Repair works on the Howford Bridge have been delayed further due to the freezing temperatures.
 
  Investigation work was carried out at the Howford Bridge, between Catrine and Mauchline, in September due to drainage issues being identified on the structure.
 
  The works were originally set to be completed by December 10, but that was then pushed back to December 17 due to bad weather.
 
  Now the date for the works to be removed has been changed to Friday, December 23, 2022.
 
  Amey says that the "low temperatures" mean that certain parts of the work could not be carried out.
 
  Drivers had been venting their frustrations earlier this month about the "lack of work" taking place on the road during days of good weather.
 
READ MORE: Drivers furious about 'lack of work' on A76 Howford Bridge
 
  Temporary traffic lights will now remain in place 24 hours a day along the northbound carriageway until December 23.
 
  Repairs to the southbound carriageway will then take place in early 2023.
 
  An Amey spokesperson confirmed: "The completion date for repair works on the A76 northbound carriageway at Howford Bridge has been revised and repairs are now scheduled to complete on Friday 23rd December 2022.
 
  "The sub-surface drainage layer could not be installed as programmed due to adverse weather.
 
  "The low temperatures we are currently experiencing across South-West Scotland do not allow for the successful laying of road treatment materials. 
 
  "Please note, repair work to the southbound carriageway will commence in early 2023. We thank road users for their patience while this essential maintenance is underway."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.