Your credit score is a three-digit number between 300 and 850, generated by a mathematical algorithm (a mostly secret formula) based on information in your credit report compared with information on tens of millions of other people. The resulting number is said to be a highly accurate prediction of how likely you are to pay your bills. If it sounds boring and unimportant, you couldn’t be more wrong. Credit scores are used extensively these days. If you rent an apartment, get braces, buy a cellphone service, apply for a job or call to get utilities connected, there’s a good chance your report and score will be pulled. If you have an existing credit card, the issuer is likely to look at your credit score to decide whether to decrease your credit limit or charge you a higher interest rate. The higher the number, the better you look to lenders. People with the highest scores get the lowest interest rates. And, we hear, they’re getting the jobs. Know your score. We can get our credit report free at AnnualCreditReport.com. Now we can get our credit scores for free, too. Check your credit scores anytime, anywhere, and never pay for it at CreditKarma.com. You will need to create a simple password-protected account, no credit card required. Here are the ways to improve our credit scores: Pay your bills on time. Making your credit payments on time is one of the biggest contributing factors to your credit score. Delinquent payments have a major negative impact on your credit score. If you have missed payments, get current and stay current. The longer you pay your bills on time, the better your credit score. Be aware, however, that paying off a collection account or bringing an account current will not remove it from your credit report. Keep balances low on revolving credit. Using more than 30 percent of your available credit on your credit cards brings down your credit score. This applies to individual accounts and when you add up all of your available credit and compare it with how much you are using at any given day during the billing cycle.  Pay off debt rather than moving it around. The most effective way to improve your credit score is by paying down your revolving credit. Getting your balances down to zero will send your score soaring. Don’t close unused credit cards. Closing accounts might sound like a great short-term strategy to raise your score, but it’s not. This will close the gap between your outstanding debt (the amount of credit you are using) and the total amount available. Instead, use a clear strategy to close accounts, but only as it will not impact the gap between what you owe and the amount of credit available. Don’t open new accounts. More credit might seem wise in order to increase your ratio, but it will be seen as a negative to your score. New, or “young,” accounts are not useful in credit scoring because they dilute your average account age. Unless it’s a dire emergency, do not open new credit accounts. Work on longevity. Make sure you maintain your oldest accounts. A great deal of weight is given to longevity, so the oldest account you have is the most valuable. Stick with it. As with a lot of things in life, time is the best healer. Do the right thing by managing your finances responsibly and your credit score will take care of itself. Get help! If you are having trouble making ends meet, contact your creditors or see a legitimate credit counselor. But beware. There are lots of shysters out there masquerading as negotiators, settlers and credit counselors. You can find a legitimate certified credit counselor at the National Foundation for Credit Counseling website, or by calling 800-338-2227. The NFCC is the nation’s first and largest nonprofit dedicated to improving people’s financial well-being. NFCC is legit. In fact, NFCC is the only credit counseling organization I recommend and endorse. It has been around for many years and has earned the highest reputation. NFCC is a wonderful organization you can trust that has come to the rescue of thousands of my readers over the years. It’s ready to help you, too! Mary invites you to visit her at EverydayCheapskate.com, where this column is archived complete with links and resources for all recommended products and services. Mary invites questions and comments at “Ask Mary.” This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. Mary Hunt is the founder of EverydayCheapskate.com, a frugal living blog, and the author of the book “Debt-Proof Living.” COPYRIGHT 2022 CREATORS.COM If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices