Her favorite hair conditioning mask is only $34!  We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Why Trust Us?  The New Year is an ideal time for making resolutions and setting new goals—but also, of course, for upgrading your beauty routine. Luckily for us, Halle Berry is already delivering much-needed guidance on where to start with the best beauty picks of the year. The 56-year-old actress recently took to Instagram to share a video showing off her must-have products for 2023. “I wanted to share some of my FAVORITE things I think every woman should have in 2023,” she wrote in the caption. “Hope these goodies bring you as much joy as they’ve brought me.” Of course, there were plenty of beauty picks on Berry’s list—including the actress’s favorite skincare and health essentials, as well as her go-to makeup product.   When it comes to skincare, Berry says there’s one thing everyone needs to try. “If you don't know about the Knesko masks—face mask, neck mask, lip mask—get into it,” she says. “These are the best facial masks I have found.” Knesko’s best-selling mask is the Nano Gold Repair Collagen Face Mask—also a cult-favorite among celebrities—which includes ingredients such as 24K Colloidal Gold to repair skin, hyaluronic acid to hydrate, and elastin to reduce wrinkles.  And if you need the mask for a specific part of your face—as Berry mentions—Knesko also has the Nano Gold Repair Collagen Eye Mask, Lip Mask, and Neck Mask.  Olga Lorencin is a brand that Berry has sworn by for years—she’s previously touted their ​​3-step Red Carpet Facial in a box—but this year, the actress is especially loving their Heal the Need Recovery Face Serum. “You’re going to need this for your face in 2023—trust me,” she says. “You put this on, you wake up, you’ve got a new face. It happens to me every morning.” With a powerful blend of ingredients including Marula Seed Oil, Avocado Oil, and Passion Fruit Seed Oil, this restoring face serum promises to deeply hydrate and repair skin while also diminishing wrinkles, evening skin tone, and even soothe eczema-prone and redness-prone skin.  Berry didn’t forget to share her go-to hair product for silky-soft hair—the Virtue Restorative Hydrating Hair Treatment Mask with Keratin, which she calls her “favorite, favorite hair conditioner right now.” Suitable for all hair types, this hair mask is infused with keratin to repair damaged strands, while also delivering intense hydration— in fact, the brand says it will “take hair from dry and damaged to silky soft in as little as three minutes.”  Plus, reviewers seem to love it, too. “I have never found such an amazing hair mask for heat-damaged and color-damaged hair,” raves one reviewer. “If you are done with having damaged, dry, frizzy hair and split ends, then this product will literally change your life.” The best part? It’s super affordable at under $40. “Get this recovery mask,” Berry urges. “We’ve got to care about our hair.” When it comes to makeup, Berry’s go-to is the Sculpted Face Stick Trio set from Ogee. "This is my favorite makeup,” she says. “The texture of this is so yummy.” The best-selling set pulls triple duty, with three different face sticks—a bronzer, blush, and highlighter—to achieve a “no makeup” makeup look on the go. “Put this on, you can do your blush, your contouring, your highlight,” Berry explains. “It comes in three colors." The set is also highly-rated on Amazon, with reviewerƒs especially loving its smooth application and easy blendability. “It’s very creamy and blends perfectly with both brush or beauty sponge,” one user writes. “It’s very pigmented and after blending, and it gives you a very natural finish look.” Hannah Jeon is an Associate Commerce Editor at Prevention, where she covers expert-driven commerce content for all things health, beauty, and wellness. Previously the Editorial Assistant at Good Housekeeping, she earned her bachelor’s degree in creative writing and psychology from Johns Hopkins University. When she’s not on the hunt for all the best products online, you can often find her trying out new food spots in New York City or clicking away behind a camera. Charlotte Tilbury Says This SPF Blurs ‘Fine Lines’ Bobbi Brown’s Makeup Brush Basics Cindy Crawford, 58, Uses This Drugstore Mascara  Get This Laura Geller-Approved Foundation 40% Off Kyle Richards Reveals Her Favorite Moisturizer Bobbi Brown Launches Miracle Balm Palette Sale: Bobbi Brown Is a ‘Fan’ of This Moisturizer Oprah’s Favorite Things Are on Sale for Prime Day Laura Geller’s ‘Favorite’ Product for Mature Skin Bobbi Brown Shares ‘Essential’ Skincare Products Kyle Richards Shares Her Go-To Concealer Bobbi Brown’s Beauty Tips for Gray Hair A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.