Comment More than 1,100 signatories, including Elon Musk, Steve Wozniak, and Tristan Harris of the Center for Humane Technology, have signed an open letter that was posted online Tuesday evening that calls on “all AI labs to immediately pause for at least 6 months the training of AI systems more powerful than GPT-4.” The letter reads: Contemporary AI systems are now becoming human-competitive at general tasks,[3] and we must ask ourselves: Should we let machines flood our information channels with propaganda and untruth? Should we automate away all the jobs, including the fulfilling ones? Should we develop nonhuman minds that might eventually outnumber, outsmart, obsolete and replace us? Should we risk loss of control of our civilization? Such decisions must not be delegated to unelected tech leaders. Powerful AI systems should be developed only once we are confident that their effects will be positive and their risks will be manageable. The letter argues that there is a “level of planning and management” that is “not happening,” and that instead, in recent months, unnamed “AI labs” have been “locked in an out-of-control race to develop and deploy ever more powerful digital minds that no one – not even their creators – can understand, predict, or reliably control.” The letter’s signatories, some of whom are AI experts, say the pause they are asking for should be “public and verifiable, and include all key actors.” If said pause “cannot be enacted quickly, governments should step in and institute a moratorium,” the letter says. Certainly, the letter is interesting both because of the people who have signed — which includes some engineers from Meta and Google, Stability AI founder and CEO Emad Mostaque, and people not in tech, including a self-described electrician and an esthetician — and those who have not. No one from OpenAI, the outfit behind the large language model GPT-4, has signed this letter, for example. Nor has anyone from Anthropic, whose team spun out of OpenAI to build a “safer” AI chatbot. https://techcrunch.com/2023/03/29/ais-moral-compass-with-a-jack-of-all-trades/?utm_source=internal&utm_medium=WPunit Wednesday, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman spoke with the WSJ, saying OpenAI has not started training GPT-5. Altman also noted that the company has long given priority to safety in development and spent more than six months doing safety tests on GPT-4 before its launch. “In some sense, this is preaching to the choir,” he told the Journal. “We have, I think, been talking about these issues the loudest, with the most intensity, for the longest.” Indeed, Altman sat down with this editor in January, where he argued that “starting these [product releases] now [makes sense], where the stakes are still relatively low, rather than just put out what the whole industry will have in a few years with no time for society to update.” Altman more recently sat down with computer scientist and popular podcaster Lex Fridman, and spoke about his relationship with Musk, who was a cofounder of OpenAI but stepped away from the organization in 2018, citing conflicts of interest. (A newer report from the outlet Semafor says Musk left after his offer to run OpenAI was rebuffed by its other cofounders, including Altman, who assumed the role of CEO in early 2019.) Musk is perhaps the least surprising signatory of this open letter, given that he has been talking about AI safety for many years and has more lately taken aim at OpenAI specifically, suggesting that the company is all talk and no action. Fridman asked Altman about Musk’s recent and routine tweets bashing the organization. Said Altman: “Elon is obviously attacking us some on Twitter right now on a few different vectors, and I have empathy because I believe he is — understandably so — really stressed about AGI safety. I’m sure there are some other motivations going on too, but that’s definitely one of them.” That said, added Altman, he finds some of Musk’s behavior hurtful. “I definitely grew up with Elon as a hero of mine. You know, despite him being a jerk on Twitter or whatever, I’m happy he exists in the world. But I wish he would do more to look at the hard work we’re doing to get this stuff right.” We’re still digesting this letter (others are already tearing it to shreds). In the meantime, you can read it in full here. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that it’s Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Powered by WordPress VIP