Registered nutritionist Nicola Shubrook explores the nutritional value and health benefits of mushrooms. Interested in trying our FREE Healthy Diet Plan? This easy-to-follow, nutritionist-created plan will inspire you to cook and eat more healthily. Nourish yourself with seven days of meals, snacks and treats. All mushrooms are fungi and they produce spores, similar to pollen or seeds, which allows them to spread or travel by the wind. The rest of the mushroom then matures, typically living in soil or wood. There are many different types of mushrooms, some of which are edible including well-known species such as button, oyster, porcini and chanterelle. There are, however, many which are not edible and may cause stomach pains or vomiting if eaten, and in some cases may be fatal, such as the common death cap mushroom. Benefits of mushrooms may include: 1. Plant source of vitamin D2. Contain immune modulating nutrients3. May be beneficial for the management of neurodegenerative conditions4. May be helpful in maintaining heart health5. May support gut health Discover our full range of health benefit guides and read our guide on 10 types of mushroom you need to try. Then check out some of our favourite mushroom recipes, from our roast mushroom gnocchi to our chive waffles with maple soy mushrooms. Also, look at our guide on how to microwave mushrooms. An 80g serving provides: • 6 Kcal / 23 KJ• 0.8g Protein• 0.2g Fat• 0.2g Carbohydrates• 0.6g Fibre• 302mg Potassium• 32mcg Folate An 80g serving counts as one of your five-a-day – that’s approximately 14 button mushrooms. Discover more in our infographic: What counts as five-a-day? Mushrooms are one of the few non-animal sources of vitamin D. When they are grown, exposed to ultraviolet (UV) radiation, either from sunlight or a UV lamp, mushrooms increase their concentration of vitamin D. In fact, you can even do this at home by leaving mushrooms out on the counter in direct sunlight for 15-120 minutes; studies suggest this simple act may result in levels of vitamin D2 as high as 10mcg per 100g fresh weight. Mushrooms contain active polysaccharides, one of which is a type of soluble fibre called beta-glucan. This compound activates parts of your immune system, including immune cells called natural killer cells and macrophages, and by so doing it increases our body’s ability to fight infection and possibly even stop the growth or progression of tumours. Mushrooms also contain B vitamins as well as the mineral selenium, which helps support the immune system and prevent damage to cells and tissues. Certain varieties of mushroom are referred to as ‘medicinal’, this is because they are thought to have specific healing properties. Medicinal mushrooms, such as lion’s mane and reishi, are more often taken as a powder or supplement rather than eaten whole. There is some evidence such medicinal mushrooms may be beneficial in the treatment and management of neurodegenerative diseases and potentially Alzheimer’s. Mushrooms have been shown to have some therapeutic properties that may help lower cholesterol, particularly in overweight adults. They also contribute nutrients and plant compounds that may help prevent cells from sticking to blood vessel walls and forming plaque build-up. This in turn helps protect the heart by maintaining healthy blood pressure and circulation. Compounds in mushrooms, including beta glucan, appear to act as prebiotics, fuelling the growth of beneficial gut bacteria and promoting a favourable gut environment. This is important because a healthy gut plays an important role in maintaining our immune defences, digesting our food as well as communicating with the brain through nerves and hormones. Mushrooms are being increasingly researched and used for their important health benefits, with a number of varieties, such as some of those mentioned above, demonstrating medicinal properties. Often referred to as ‘functional mushrooms’ these varieties are both edible and possess medicinal properties; examples include lion’s mane, Turkey Tail, shiitake, reishi and cordyceps. Shop bought mushrooms are generally safe for most people, as long as you do not have an allergy to mushrooms or a mould allergy. However, with the popularity of wild food foraging comes an increased level of risk. With so many varieties of mushroom not safe for human consumption, it’s important that you heed caution before dashing out to your nearest woodland. Forage with an expert and take photographs with you of the common edible varieties; make sure that the mushrooms are cooked before you try them as only a few are safe to eat raw. Certain mushrooms which contain a compound called psilocybin, commonly referred to as magic mushrooms, can cause hallucinations, sound and sight disturbance as well as muscle weakness, drowsiness and nausea. Categorised as a class A drug it’s illegal to possess these mushrooms for yourself, for giving away or to sell in the UK. As long as you don’t have an allergy to them, mushrooms make a useful contribution to a balanced diet and offer numerous health benefits from supporting heart health to immune function. Get inspiration with our favourite mushroom recipes. Immune-friendly recipesHealthy mushroom recipesTop 10 immune-supportive recipes Kerry Torrens BSc. (Hons) PgCert MBANT is a registered nutritionist with a post graduate diploma in personalised nutrition & nutritional therapy. She is a member of the British Association for Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine (BANT) and a member of the Guild of Food Writers. Over the last 15 years she has been a contributing author to a number of nutritional and cookery publications including Good Food. Nicola Shubrook is a nutritional therapist and works with both private clients and the corporate sector. She is an accredited member of the British Association for Applied Nutrition and Nutritional Therapy (BANT) and the Complementary & Natural Healthcare Council (CNHC). Find out more at urbanwellness.co.uk. All health content on goodfood.com is provided for general information only, and should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own doctor or any other healthcare professional. If you have any concerns about your general health, you should contact your local healthcare provider. See our website terms and conditions for more information. Save 20% on your first two curated recipe boxes. Enjoy Good Food Magazine delivered to your door Search, save and sort your favourite recipes and view them offline. Join the Good Food Wine Club