Abi Burton comes from a rugby family with father Danny and brothers Joe and Oli all playing rugby league Great Britain rugby sevens Olympian Abi Burton says she spent 25 days in a coma and was wrongly sectioned for 26 days with an immune disorder. The 22-year-old, who competed in Tokyo, spent a total of 75 days in hospital and lost over three stone in weight. Burton has also had to learn to walk and talk again, suffered seizures and her behaviour became violent. "I was horrendously aggressive - I even broke some of the bannisters on the stairs," she told the Daily Telegraph., external Autoimmune encephalitis occurs when the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the brain and can be wrongly confused with mental illness.  "My antibodies were attacking my brain because they thought my brain was in trouble, but my brain wasn't in trouble," Burton added.  "Then the antibodies in my brain were attacking them back, which basically made my brain swell and caused everything, all the behaviour. They (the medical professionals) came to the conclusion that I was having a psychotic breakdown. "They said to my mum and dad, 'You either take her to Fieldhead, which is a psychiatric hospital, or we will take her'. My mum and dad didn't know what to do. I was so poorly. They could see me only for an hour a day - some days they weren't allowed to see me at all." Burton's condition, which began in May last year, did not improve until a member of staff brought forward the disease as a possible cause, two-and-a-half weeks after she was admitted to the hospital in Wakefield. When she was diagnosed, Burton was moved to a different hospital and her family made the difficult decision to have their daughter placed in a coma so she could receive plasma exchanges. They were also told she could suffer brain damage. "When I was in the coma, I had pneumonia twice," says Leeds-born Burton, who has no memory of her time from May to August 2022. "It was horrible for my family not knowing how I would be when I woke up." Having missed both the Commonwealth Games and Sevens World Cup, the England international says she is keen to return to rugby as soon as possible and targeting the Paris Olympics in 2024. "I am still on the road to recovery, with the aim to play international rugby again this year," she said on Instagram., external "My misdiagnosis is something I never want to happen to anyone ever again. I just can't wait until we get the opportunity at the next Olympics - especially after all this. "My first home Commonwealth Games was taken away from me, my first World Cup taken away from me. Long term, I want us to go and win gold in Paris." England Rugby Scottish Rugby Union Welsh Rugby Union Irish Rugby 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.