ROCHESTER, N.Y. – There are some sponsorship partnerships that just are so obvious. Sam Ryder and transportation and logistics giant Ryder System, Peter Malnati and Malnati’s Pizza and, maybe the best of all, Brooke Pancake and Waffle House are just a few of recent vintage that jump to mind. Well, add Maverick McNealy and Ford Motors Co., to the list. The PGA Tour pro and the American carmaker announced an endorsement deal that started this week at the PGA Championship at Oak Hill. McNealy, 27, and his three brothers – Dakota, Colt and Scout – are all named after American cars, a nod to their family’s connection to the auto industry. The family’s ties to the innovative spirit of the Detroit auto industry and cars run deep. McNealy’s grandfather, Raymond William McNealy Jr., was vice chairman of American Motors, and an avid golfer. While McNealy’s father, Scott, the co-founder of Sun Microsystems, claims he named Maverick after the Ford sedan, mom Susan says she named him after the Tom Cruise character in “Top Gun,” which was originally released in 1986. Maverick McNealy, who was named after the Ford Maverick, signed an endorsement deal with Ford Motors. (Darren Reese) The Ford Maverick was introduced in 1970 as the first American car to be marketed as a compact. It was designed to be an affordable, fuel-efficient car that could compete with the smaller, Japanese imports from Toyota and Datsun that were becoming popular in the U.S., and was produced until 1977. According to Wikipedia, the Ford Maverick’s name was derived from the word for unbranded range animals, and the car’s nameplate was stylized to resemble the head of Longhorn cattle. The Ford Maverick was reborn as a compact pickup truck, starting with a 2022 model. McNealy only has had two cars in his life. He drove a hand-me-down 2011 Ford Explorer in college and bought himself a 2021 Ford Explorer SC when he earned his PGA Tour card. On paper, the sponsorship deal with McNealy sounds like a no-brainer, but it took several years of dogged efforts by McNealy’s agent, Peter Webb, to bring it to fruition. “It’s a tough brand to crack, so many layers, so many agencies but finally got it done,” Webb said. As part of the program, McNealy will drive select Ford vehicles at different PGA Tour stops, including this week where his yellow Ford Mustang sticks out like a sore thumb in a parking lot full of Cadillacs, which is the official car of the PGA. He will carry a customized Ford Maverick yardage book in his back pocket, and there also will be a digital campaign highlighting the different Ford cars and McNealy’s history with the brand. “I’ve always driven Fords, my whole family drives Fords and it’s really cool now to be a Ford ambassador because it couldn’t be more who I am and what I like to drive,” McNealy said. Story originally appeared on GolfWeek Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs.