Safaricom Ethiopia CEO Anwar Soussa Safaricom services in Ethiopia are a done deal, and most of the work has been completed over the course of 2022. While commercial launch was expected to be live as early as August this year, this roll-out was delayed to two months later in October. Now, we have learned that the telco launched its network and services in Hawassa, as well as expanding to four other cities in the past few weeks: Assela, Jigjiga, Sodo, and Dilla. Customers in these cities can now purchase SIM cards, choose their preferred phone numbers, buy airtime, and access customer support at Safaricom Ethiopia branded shops. The launch of the “07” network in these five cities brings Safaricom Ethiopia’s total coverage to 21 cities across the country. As part of the expansion, Safaricom Ethiopia is promoting its products and services through activations in universities, open markets, distributor shops, and roadshows in all 21 cities. Customers who buy SIM cards, airtime, and all-network packages will also receive Gursha packages as a reward. The company thanked the Ethiopian government, regional governments, the Ethiopian Communications Authority, shareholders, and partners for their support in the expansion. Since it started serving customers, the telco has since launched the following products in Ethiopia: The carrier also has 561 active 2G/3G/4G sites, 2 data centres, 931 sites under construction, and 49 shared sites. Furthermore, 61 of the total sites are shared, having signed all tower-sharing agreements. The said staff includes 479 Ethiopians and 176 ex-pats, making them 655. There are 66 distributor shops, 2000 sim-selling shops, and 652 call centre staff. By September 30, Safaricom Ethiopia had onboarded 180K customers, who jumped to 740K at the end of October. Towards the end of November, Safaricom Ethiopia has more than 1 million customers. Safaricom says it is committed to providing commercial services in 25 cities and meeting Safaricom Ethiopia’s License network coverage obligations (25% population) required by March 2023. This means that it is four cities away from meeting that goal, and it is likely this will be done before the March 2023 deadline.  
				Kenn Abuya is a friend of technology, with bias in enterprise and mobile tech. Share your thoughts, tips and hate mail at [email protected]  Techweez is a fast growing influential source of technology news, reviews and analysis by leading tech geeks in the industry. 
Follow Us   © 2024 Techweez - Palahala Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
A Palahala Media Group Brand. All rights reserved. .  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 

 
- Select Visibility -PublicPrivate  Hey there! Just a heads-up: we're big fans of cookies - both the digital and edible kind! 🍪 We use our cookies and some from third parties to ensure your browsing experience on our site is smooth sailing and secure.   But wait, there's more! We also use cookies to gather stats and insights on how you navigate our site. It's like getting a behind-the-scenes peek at your digital adventures!   Don't worry, you're in control. You can adjust your cookie settings anytime to suit your preferences. Feeling curious? Dive into our Privacy Policy for all the juicy details. Happy browsing! 🚀 © 2024 Techweez - Palahala Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
A Palahala Media Group Brand. All rights reserved. .