Indian grape export to Europe for the 2022-23 season (December to April) has soared despite initial concerns about global freight bottlenecks and two spells of unseasonal rains. Till April 10, India has exported 7,932 containers (each container has 15 tonnes of grapes), up from the 7,626 containers shipped out during the same period last season. Over the last two seasons, Indian exports, especially agri exports, have suffered due to the global bottleneck in freight and shipping. Grape exporters were wary of lower-than-normal demand from Europe due to the fear of recessions at the start of the 2022-23 season. Vilas Shinde, chief managing director (CMD) of Nashik-headquartered Sahyadri Farms (the largest grape exporter of the country), had talked of around 10-15 per cent lower exports due to the dual whammies they expected this season. Exporters were in for a surprise as demand from European markets picked up right at the start of the season. Maharashtra, the country’s largest producer and exporter of grapes, did not witness any unseasonal rains in the crucial growth months from September to November. “Thus, we were able to meet the export demands from Europe and the United Kingdom as quality produce was easily available,” Shinde said. Pointing to the data, Shinde said had it not been for the unseasonal rains in March and April, Indian exports would have touched an all-time high. Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar, the three main grape producers in the state, saw unseasonal rains in March, with grapes, pomegranate and vegetable crops bearing the brunt. Shinde said the rains in March reduced expected export figures by 15 per cent. The state is under the spell of another season of rains and hailstorms, which have resulted in extensive damage to the harvest-ready crops. “The last 10 per cent of the crop has reported berry cracking due to the hailstorms,” he said. Fresh or table grapes from India have made their mark in the European and other international markets thanks to them being available when produce from South Africa and South America is not otherwise available. European Union countries are the biggest destination for Indian grapes in terms of quantity and monetary value. In the 2021-22 season, India exported 2.63 lakh tonnes of grapes and the total earning from the shipment was $305 million. 
Click here to join Express Pune WhatsApp channel and get a curated list of our stories Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Filmmaker Amar Kaushik is riding high on the success of his latest release, Stree 2, which has emerged as one of the most successful films in the post-Covid era. In a recent conversation, Amar discussed how he delivered a box office hit without relying on big stars and stressed on the importance of storytelling over star power.  