Contradicting guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Florida Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo said Wednesday that state health officials will recommend against anyone under the age of 65 getting the new COVID-19 vaccine boosters recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The CDC is recommending everyone age six months and older receive one new shot from Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna. The CDC guidance says individuals 65 or older, or who are moderately or severely immunocompromised, can get two new shots. Ladapo announced the state's new vaccine guidance during a panel discussion with health professionals who were critical of the shoot. The pop-up roundtable was convened and moderated by Gov. Ron DeSantis on the same day he is fundraising for his struggling presidential campaign in Greenwich, Conn. DeSantis strongly promoted COVID-19 vaccines when they were first released but has since become one of the most prominent public officials raising questions about their safety, even as federal health officials insist that the benefits of the shots outweigh any risks. “I will not stand by and let the FDA and CDC use healthy Floridians as guinea pigs for new booster shots that have not been proven to be safe or effective,” DeSantis said in a press release sent out after the panel discussion. The announcement comes as Florida hospitals are reporting more COVID cases than any other state. Florida’s pandemic death toll has surpassed 90,000 and the weekly new cases topped 24,000 for two consecutive weeks.  Anti-vaxxer in chief?DeSantis elevates vaccine skepticism to marquee campaign issue With cases surging again, there has been renewed discussion about what precautions to take, including masking and booster shots. DeSantis has seized on that to tout his record of opposing COVID-19 restrictions, and to criticize former President Donald Trump's handling of the pandemic. The COVID discussion is another area where DeSantis has worked to challenge Trump from the right. Trump's administration accelerated the development of the COVID vaccines through Operation Warp Speed. DeSantis has accused Trump of being too deferential to Dr. Anthony Fauci, one of his top COVID advisers. Ladapo has emerged as Florida's anti-Fauci, frequently contradicting the consensus of mainstream health care professionals on COVID issues. Under Ladapo, Florida became the first state to recommend against healthy children receiving the COVID-19 vaccines. The latest announcement again makes Florida an outlier on vaccine guidance. Ladapo has been strongly criticized by leading health care experts, including for a study he released tying COVID-19 vaccines to heart problems in some patients. DeSantis referenced the study during Wednesday's discussion. Critics said the study’s methodology was flawed, and it later was revealed that Ladapo edited the study to remove data that contradicted his conclusions. “That was roundly refuted by the scientific community,” Dr. Paul Offit, a vaccine expert at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, who served on the Food and Drug Administration advisory panel that approved the initial COVID vaccines, previously told the USA TODAY NETWORK - Florida. “That should have been an embarrassment to (DeSantis) and his surgeon general.” In addition to Ladapo, the panel convened Wednesday by DeSantis included Stanford University Health Policy Professor Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, a prominent COVID contrarian who frequently has participated in events organized by the governor, and two other physicians. The panelists raised a number of concerns about the new shots. “At this point with the amount of immunity that’s in the community… and the questions we have about safety and about effectiveness, but especially about safety, my judgment is that it’s not a good decision for young people and for people who are not at high risk at this point in the pandemic,” Ladapo said of getting an updated vaccine shot. Bhattacharya said he supports that recommendation. “You’re gonna hear, I think, from American public health a lot of outcry over the guidance but I think they should be asked: What data are they relying on?” Bhattacharya said. The CDC website says the updated or “bivalent” vaccines protects “against both the original virus that causes COVID-19 and the Omicron variant BA.4 and BA.5.” Federal officials say the new vaccines are safe and effective. “The FDA is confident in the safety and effectiveness of these updated vaccines, and the agency’s benefit-risk assessment demonstrates that the benefits of these vaccines for individuals 6 months of age and older outweigh the risks,” the FDA said Monday in information posted on its website. The CDC said Tuesday that vaccination is the best way to prevent against COVID-19 hospitalizations and deaths and to help people reduce chances of suffering from what is known as “long COVID.” “The virus that causes COVID-19 is always changing, and protection from COVID-19 vaccines declines over time,” the CDC said on its website. “Receiving an updated COVID-19 vaccine can restore protection and provide enhanced protection against the variants currently responsible for most infections and hospitalizations in the United States.” Dr. Marissa Levine, a public health expert at the University of South Florida-Health and a former Virginia state health commissioner, said the state’s action Wednesday “was a disservice to Floridians.”  Levine said it was important for Floridians to consider their own health situation and rely on advice from health care professionals rather than “making a decision based on a statement from a politician.”  She also disputed the extent of the booster risks raised by DeSantis, Ladapo and the other vaccine skeptics who took part in Wednesday’s online exchange.  “The disease itself has risks,” Levine said. “From what we see in the data, the risks from COVID are worse than any risk from the vaccine.”  She framed the governor’s stance against his bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  “There’s an underlying motivation here that people have to be aware of and it’s not really helpful to the public. It undermines our institutions, which is dangerous and evokes more fear than caring and support,” Levine said.  The impact on Floridians of the state’s recommendation is difficult to gauge. But like with so much involving COVID-19, it is likely to break along partisan lines.  A new survey by the University of South Florida and Florida Atlantic University underscored that division finding that Democratic respondents were significantly more willing to receive ongoing vaccine boosters than their Republican counterparts.  The poll, released last week, showed 84% of Democrats ready for boosters compared with 53% of Florida Republicans. Among independent voters, 64.5% said they’ll get boosted.  Republicans also reported lower levels of trust in public health guidance and were significantly more likely to believe misinformation about COVID-19 vaccines.  Indeed, 50% of state Republican voters surveyed by USF and FAU said the vaccines can cause you to become sick with COVID-19 and another 32% said they cause your DNA to change, neither of which is true. Information from the News Service of Florida was used in this report.