     As a longtime advocate and long-serving appointed member of the Henrico Area Community Services Board, I read with interest Rachael Deane's editorial ("Children are in distress. Virginia must act – now," Aug. 18). Despite Ms. Deane's assertion that children and adolescents face a six-month wait (or longer) for mental health care services from the commonwealth's 39 community services boards and one behavioral health authority, there is encouraging news. Henrico Area Mental Health & Developmental Services offer Same Day Access for individuals ages 4 to 18 residing in the counties of Henrico, Charles City and New Kent. One can walk in (no appointment necessary), be seen by a licensed clinician for an assessment and offered a program appointment within a week for both outpatient therapy and case-management services. During extremely busy times, the wait may be a bit longer (three weeks). Same Day Access locations are 3908 Nine Mile Road and 10299 Woodman Road. Assessments are available Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Thursday from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; and Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. If you or someone you love is struggling with mental health issues, Same Day Access provides prompt and professional assessments with follow-up services at Henrico Area Mental Health & Developmental Services for residents of Henrico, Charles City and New Kent. Karen Wood Grizzard Short Pump The Virginia Retirement System has almost $114 billion in its trust fund to pay for long-term retirement obligations for almost 830,000 curren… Before taking the stage at The National with his band Dogstar on Wednesday night, actor Keanu Reeves stopped by the Fountain Bookstore in Shoc… Can Can Brasserie, a staple in Richmond’s food scene since opening in 2005, has been acquired by the restaurant group that owns The Boathouse,… VSU student Jaylen Culley: “It’s just crazy that someone would do something like this.” The 26-story building that houses the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond has towered over the James River and dominated the city’s skyline since 1978.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.