Mostly clear. Low 76F. Winds light and variable..
                                 Mostly clear. Low 76F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 7:08 pm Water utilities across East Texas have until Oct. 16 to figure out how many decades-old lead pipes are carrying water to people’s homes and businesses in their districts.  Report for America Corps Member, Longview News-Journal Sprouts Farmers Market plans to renovate space for a Longview location at 2547 Judson Road at the intersection with Loop 281.  White Oak ISD trustees have selected an assistant superintendent as the district's next chief.  Kilgore College trustees recently discussed an expanded and revised records policy after an incident in June in which decades’ worth of music department items were thrown away, sparking public outcry. The Longview Junction area on Methvin Street and its row of regal but decaying brick buildings looked forlorn as recently as a few months ago. On Saturday, it was difficult to find a parking spot.  Reporter Representatives from area veterans organizations recently gathered at the Tyler Area Chamber of Commerce to discuss building a state cemetery to serve the region. Longview ISD Superintendent Dr. Marla Sheppard is inviting students, staff, families and the community to participate in upcoming Longview ISD Listening & Learning Workshops.  Protesters break through security fence near site of Democratic National Convention  Dozens of protesters broke through a security fence near the site of the Democratic National Convention on its opening day as thousands took to the streets to voice their opposition to the war in Gaza. Families with babies in strollers, students, elected leaders and others holding signs and flags joined the march on Monday to the United Center, where the convention is being held, to call for a ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas war. As the larger group marched peacefully, a few dozen who broke away tore down pieces of the security fence. Several protesters who had managed to get through the fence were detained and handcuffed by officers. A Texas civil jury says the parents of a former student accused of killing 10 people in a 2018 Santa Fe high school shooting can’t be held responsible for what happened. Jurors announced their decision Monday. Jurors did hold Dimitrios Pagourtzis responsible and awarded families more than $200 million total in damages. A victims’ lawsuit alleged that the parents failed to provide necessary support for Pagourtzis’ mental health and didn’t do enough to prevent the then-17-year-old from accessing their guns. Pagourtzis is being held at a state mental health facility and has been declared mentally incompetent to stand trial. The victim’s lawsuit sought to hold Pagourtzis and his parents financially liable for the shooting. The Democratic National Convention began Monday in Chicago, with roughly 50,000 people expected to arrive in the Windy City. That includes thousands of anti-war activists demonstrating near the United Center. President Joe Biden is the headline speaker for the first evening. Later this week, Vice President Kamala Harris will officially accept the party’s nomination. If you’re looking for something to do this weekend, check out this list of events and activities around East Texas. This Saturday, Plaza Tower will host the third annual HOT August Nights, an event that promises to unite the community through a blend of exquisite dining and local artistry. Organized by Heart of Tyler, Inc. (HOT), the evening will feature a five-course meal crafted by downtown restaurants,… Longview police say a Kilgore man was arrested Friday evening after two women said they were attacked on the Paul Boorman Trail. From staff reports  “Is this story beginning to sound a little familiar?” Gregg County Sheriff Maxey Cerliano qu… DALLAS — As law enforcement officers hung back outside Khloie Torres’ fourth-grade classroom… Pine Tree finished on a good note during its first football scrimmage of the year against Center at Pirate Stadium on Friday, and made enough plays to build on them during the final week and a half of 2024 regular season preparation.  Ohio State safety Caleb Downs, one of the second-ranked Buckeyes’ high-profile transfers, and three of his new teammates were selected for the preseason Associated Press All-America team announced Monday.  LAS VEGAS — Dallas Cowboys coach Mike McCarthy wants quarterback Trey Lance to find a comfort zone and play within his capabilities.  BRAINERD, Minn. — Qualifying promise gave way to race day pain Sunday for four-time World Champion Steve Torrence of Kilgore, who couldn’t capitalize on a No.1 start and fell to debuting rookie Ida Zetterstrom in the opening round of the 42nd Lucas Oil Nationals at Brainerd International Raceway.  If you were among those curious about J.D. Vance’s positions on key issues, you got some ans… I’m sure the summer break will fly by faster than the drone my son Gideon has been maneuvering.  “And He has said to me, ‘My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness.… Sprouts Farmers Market plans to renovate space for a Longview location at 2547 Judson Road at the intersection with Loop 281.  Here’s a look at commercial and large residential building permits issued by the City of Longview or applied for from Aug. 2 through Aug. 9:  The Longview Junction area on Methvin Street and its row of regal but decaying brick buildings looked forlorn as recently as a few months ago. On Saturday, it was difficult to find a parking spot.  The latest news on new hires, job changes, promotions, awards and more among Longview-area businesses Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: