Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? If it’s time for you to trade in an old device or otherwise make the jump to a new smartphone, we’ve got some savings in store for you. The best phone deals currently taking place include some popular phones such as iPhone 15 deals, Samsung Galaxy S24 deals, Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra deals, and Google Pixel 8 deals. But there are also some lesser known phone models out there offering impressive savings as well. We’ve rounded up all of the best phone deals we feel are worth taking a look at right now, and you’ll find all of them below. And with previous phone generations holding up well you may also want to check out refurbished iPhone deals, iPhone 14 deals, iPhone SE deals, Samsung Galaxy S23 deals, and Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra deals. The Nokia C21 is the perfect entry-level phone, and one of the few smartphones you can find for under $100. It’s unlocked so you can set it up with the carrier of your choosing, and it runs on Android 11 so you know you’ll be getting access to all sorts of compatible apps. The phone’s polycarbonate design makes it durable, its 6.5-inch HD+ display makes it incredibly watchable, and its all-day battery life will allow you to take it just about anywhere without having to worry about plugging in.  One company that makes a great alternative to the more popular phone brands is OnePlus, and the Nord N200 smartphone makes a great alternative to much more expensive smartphones on the market. It’s powered by Android so you’ll be getting access to a ton of apps, but the OnePlus Nord N200 also offers some serious specs. It has 5G connectivity and comes unlocked for setting up with any carrier. It has a 6.4-inch Full HD+ display with a 90Hz refresh rate for smooth motion. And it also has a massive battery that’s designed to last through the entire day. Fast charging, a 3.5mm headphone jack, and a Qualcomm 5G chipset round out the top features of the N200.  Available through Best Buy, with $100 off if you activate through a carrier same-day, is the Google Pixel 7a. It’s the most compact phone in the Pixel 7 lineup, with a water-resistant design. It also comes in four fun colors. Features include an amazing 64 megapixel main camera, 90Hz refresh rate for the display, and wireless charging.  The renowned flip phone is back and better than ever with the Motorola Razr 2023. It’s lightweight and compact. Has an excellent camera with fast-charging support, and also features dust and water-resistance. The 6.9-inch 144Hz inner screen looks fantastic when it’s unfolded, with a cute little character called Moo brightening up the external notifications display.  The Google Pixel 7 Pro has an amazing camera at 50 megapixels for the main camera, with a 12 megapixel ultrawide and a 48 megapixel telephoto lens. Plus, the 10.8 megapixel front-facing selfie camera, which is no slouch either. Essentially, it’s a fantastic option for people who love photography or just want to capture some great shots. It also features a bold, striking design, gorgeous 120Hz refresh rate screen, fast and powerful performance, and supports face unlock for quick, secure access.  The Google Pixel 8 is one of Google’s latest Pixel releases and it’s been a popular phone. It has a compact size, high quality camera, and software that incorporates AI and makes it a joy to use. The Pixel 8 is capable of reaching up to two days of battery life on a single charge, so it’s a great option for everyday use. It’s able to get that battery life despite utilizing the most powerful processor Google has put in a smartphone to date, which goes a long way toward making things quick and snappy whether you’re taking photos or browsing social media.  To get this deal, you will need a trade-in as Samsung is offering up to $750 in instant trade-in credit. But the value of the trade-in does depend on the device you’re sending back, as well as the condition. Even so, this is an excellent offer on Samsung’s renowned folding phone the Galaxy Z Fold5. It’s thinner and lighter than ever with a silent, high-quality and durable hinge. Moreover, you get an IPX8 resistant and durable chassis, a fun, social-media-friendly camera, and the large foldout display that’s perfect for multi-tasking, games, and watching media.  From some of the best folding phones on the market to your common candybar-style phones, there are a lot of deals floating around worth shopping. We’ve included some additional options here: Apple's iPad is undoubtedly one of the most popular tablets on the market right now. There are several different models to choose from, but no matter which one you go with, you'll be getting one of the best tablets out there. Still, Apple provides an abundance of choice here, and with so many different versions and a mostly regular annual update cycle, it can be tricky to know which one is the best to get. All of Apple's iPads are pretty great, and they're each designed with a slightly different audience in mind, so it's hard to pick a single one as "the best." That's why we've broken this list down by categories; after all, there's an ideal iPad for nearly every situation. Whether you're looking for the best overall iPad, the best iPad on a budget, something in the middle of the pack, or even the best small iPad, we've got you covered. Apple’s iPhone has been around for well over a decade now, and it’s always a great choice for those looking for a smartphone. For years, there was only one iPhone model to choose from, so your only decisions were how much capacity to get and whether you wanted it with a darker black/gray or a lighter white/silver finish. Today, the latest iPhone models come in multiple versions, making your purchase a bit more complicated. To start with, the newest iPhone 15 lineup offers four different models to choose from. Apple also sells the older iPhone 14 and iPhone 13. Finally, there’s even the iPhone SE for folks looking for a small and affordable no-frills model — or those who still really like the traditional home button and Touch ID sensor. The Google Pixel 8 has been among the best phones for some time, and with the upcoming release of the Google Pixel 9 there may be no better time to get yourself a Pixel 8 than right now. There’s some big sales on the phone out there, making it one of the best phone deals we’re currently seeing. Stocks seem to be running out at some retailers and carriers, while others are still making the Pixel 8 available for free with the right contract or trade-in. With so many details to keep track of we thought we’d round up all of the best Google Pixel 8 deals for your shopping convenience. You’ll find them all below, and some similar phones to check out for some savings can be found among today’s Samsung Galaxy S24 deals, Samsung Galaxy S23 deals, iPhone 15 deals, and iPhone 14 deals.
Today's best Google Pixel 8 deals
There are some great Google Pixel 8 deals around including direct discounts when you buy the phone unlocked and trade-in deals for anyone who wants to commit to a specific cell phone provider. With such versatility, there should be something for everyone here. Take a look below to find the best Google Pixel 8 deal for your situation.  	Best Buy: , down from its regular price of $499.
 	Google:  when joining Google Fi Unlimited.
 	Amazon: , which is $129 less than a new model.
 	AT&T:  when purchasing on an installment plan and upgrading to an eligible unlimited plan.
 	T-Mobile:  with new line on Go5G Plus or Go5G Next (or other sign-up options). Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.