Apple Inc.'s AAPL iPhone 15 Pro, powered by the A17 Pro chipset, was widely expected to be a performance beast, and now we know it is several notches more powerful than Samsung Electronics Co Ltd.'s SSNLF upcoming 2024 flagship, the Galaxy S24. What Happened: The A17 Pro-powered iPhone 15 Pro has beaten the Samsung Galaxy S24, powered by Qualcomm Inc.'s QCOM Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 chipset, by a huge 30% margin, according to benchmark results spotted on Geekbench. See Also: Time To Upgrade To A New iPhone: iOS 17 Update Drops Support For These iPhones The results show that the iPhone 15 Pro beat the Galaxy S24 by over 30% in terms of single-core performance – the iPhone 15 Pro's single-core score stood at 2,914, while the unreleased Galaxy S24 Plus recorded 2,233 points. The Galaxy S24 series will be powered by Qualcomm's next-generation flagship chipset, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3. Qualcomm is expected to unveil the chipset later this year, and it will be the most powerful option available for Android smartphone makers. The Galaxy S24 also lags behind in multi-core performance – the iPhone 15 Pro scored 7,199 points, while the Galaxy S24 scored only 6,661 points. Why It Matters: While benchmark results are only indicative of the raw performance that smartphones are capable of, they are useful in showing just how powerful a smartphone is. A well-tuned, more powerful smartphone can not only deliver faster and smoother performance, but it can also be more efficient since tasks are completed faster. Now, in the case of iPhone 15 Pro, this also has real-world implications – Apple revealed that AAA-rated desktop and console games like Death Stranding, Resident Evil 4, and the upcoming Ubisoft game Assassin's Creed Mirage will be able to run natively on the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. To ensure these graphic-intensive games run smoothly, Apple has also added hardware-based ray tracing ability to the A17 Pro chipset, making iPhones the go-to option if you want seamless gaming performance. Image – Apple Check out more of Benzinga's Consumer Tech coverage by following this link. Read Next: Apple iPhone 15 Pro Innovation? Nope, Android's Done It Before: From Action Button To USB-C To 3D Video Recording © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.