Samsung unveiled four new displays that will be demonstrated at this week’s Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2023) in Las Vegas. First, there’s the Smart Monitor M8, a 27-inch computer monitor with a 4K resolution (3840×2160). A height-adjustable stand lets users tilt the display 90 degrees vertically. Displays with vertical modes can be beneficial for users that frequently read and scroll through documents.   The model includes access to streaming services (Amazon, Netflix, etc.) and Samsung’s Gaming Hub video platform, with Samsung Knox Vault to isolate user files from operating systems and mitigate cyberattacks. The display can also be used to wirelessly configure and control devices, with additional features to come. Second, there’s the 27-inch ViewFinity S9, a model aimed at creative professionals with a resolution of 5120×2880 and optimization to reduce glare and reflections.  Samsung said the display has support for DCI-P3, which sharpens visuals. Users can leverage the Color Calibration Engine tool to change several display settings through a mobile app. Lastly, Samsung released two gaming displays, the Odyssey Neo G9 and Odyssey OLED G9. The Neo G9 is a curved 57-inch model with a resolution of 7680×2160 pixels. It’s based on Samsung’s mini-LED technology, which combines quantum dots and mini-LED backlights. The technology optimizes brightness while retaining pixel accuracy. The OLED G9 is a 49-inch model with a resolution of 3840×2160 and a 240Hz refresh rate. Although it has the same quantum dots as the Neo G9, this model does not feature mini-LED backlights. Samsung opted for OLED instead, with built-in support for popular video game streaming services like Nvidia’s GeForce Now platform. This year’s Consumer Electronics Show (CES) takes place in Las Vegas from January 5 through 8. Thousands of companies showcase new and upcoming products during the event. Techzine is reporting on the news. Navigate to this page for an overview of important announcements. Tip: Lenovo introduces new ThinkVision Mini LED displays ces 2023 / Odyssey Neo G9 / Samsung / Tilting / ViewFinity  "*" indicates required fields 
The tech sector has been underperforming in the stock market lately. ... 
Open source object storage company MinIO has popped open DataPod, a r... 
IBM claims that watsonx provides the building blocks for successfully... 
After over a decade of building, Snowflake faces a new era. The compa... 
Google unveiled the ninth line of Pixel smartphones. Four sizes and models will be available: Pixel 9, Pixel ... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.