  Cisco may be the best-kept secret in the cybersecurity realm. The networking giant is known broadly for its Talos Intelligence Group, regarded as one of the world's largest commercial threat intelligence teams. However, many may not be familiar with its depth in endpoint, email, malware, firewall, router and workload security, among other areas. To learn more, I recently spoke with Tom Gillis, who leads Cisco’s security effort. During our one-on-one, we discussed several topics ranging from his vision as the newly appointed leader to the challenges associated with zero-trust whitewashing, the convergence of networking and security and the sprawl of point solutions for security. It was an enlightening conversation that I am eager to share, so let’s dive in. A return home Gillis may be in a new role at Cisco, but he knows the company well. His first tenure with Cisco began more than 15 years ago when Cisco acquired IronPort Systems, antispam and antivirus startup that he co-founded and where he managed product and outbound marketing. More than a decade later, he has returned to the fold after with advisory board experience as well as nearly five years managing the networking and security business group at VMware. It’s a perfectly tailored pedigree, especially given the continued convergence of networking and security. Gillis believes that this convergence must go deeper, given the need for context and visibility to harden security and eliminate gaps that continue to plague organizations of all sizes. These gaps are no small matter, because they leave companies vulnerable to malware, ransomware and denial of service (DDoS) attacks. To achieve his vision, Gillis is placing his bets on the cloud. Security in the cloud Cisco Security Cloud aims to deliver an open, integrated security platform for multi-cloud environments. Provided as a service, it leverages Talos threat intelligence, Cisco’s firewall capabilities, secure access from Cisco’s Duo acquisition and more. What I like about it is the ability for an organization to eliminate many point solutions and consolidate spending for security, treating all of it as an operational expense. This approach is especially compelling for customers given recent inflationary pressures. Security point solution sprawl is a huge challenge. In speaking with Gillis and with leaders from many other companies over the last few years, I’ve heard again and again that managing dozens (or more!) of security products has become untenable. No single security platform can address it all, but sharply reducing the number of solutions can make the lives of networking and security operators much more manageable, allowing them time to focus on more value-added activities. Another bonus of a security cloud approach is that it can facilitate a legitimate zero-trust deployment. This is realized through the resulting context and policy support to authenticate users to applications, versus the limitations of a flat network. Wrapping Up Cisco is on the right track with its security portfolio after a few starts and stops in the past. The company delivers a good balance of coverage while making it easy for customers to acquire, deploy and manage it all. I’ve been pre-briefed, and Cisco will reveal more enhancements to its security portfolio at the upcoming RSA Conference, further strengthening its value proposition. During our conversation, Gillis told me that his mother is a pianist, his father is an engineer and he’s a mix of both. In my mind, that makes him a great conductor for Cisco’s security strategy now and well into the future. Moor Insights & Strategy provides or has provided paid services to technology companies like all research and tech industry analyst firms. These services include research, analysis, advising, consulting, benchmarking, acquisition matchmaking, and video and speaking sponsorships. The company has had or currently has paid business relationships with 8×8, Accenture, A10 Networks, Advanced Micro Devices, Amazon, Amazon Web Services, Ambient Scientific, Ampere Computing, Anuta Networks, Applied Brain Research, Applied Micro, Apstra, Arm, Aruba Networks (now HPE), Atom Computing, AT&T, Aura, Automation Anywhere, AWS, A-10 Strategies, Bitfusion, Blaize, Box, Broadcom, C3.AI, Calix, Cadence Systems, Campfire, Cisco Systems, Clear Software, Cloudera, Clumio, Cohesity, Cognitive Systems, CompuCom, Cradlepoint, CyberArk, Dell, Dell EMC, Dell Technologies, Diablo Technologies, Dialogue Group, Digital Optics, Dreamium Labs, D-Wave, Echelon, Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Five9, Flex, Foundries.io, Foxconn, Frame (now VMware), Fujitsu, Gen Z Consortium, Glue Networks, GlobalFoundries, Revolve (now Google), Google Cloud, Graphcore, Groq, Hiregenics, Hotwire Global, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Honeywell, Huawei Technologies, HYCU, IBM, Infinidat, Infoblox, Infosys, Inseego, IonQ, IonVR, Inseego, Infosys, Infiot, Intel, Interdigital, Jabil Circuit, Juniper Networks, Keysight, Konica Minolta, Lattice Semiconductor, Lenovo, Linux Foundation, Lightbits Labs, LogicMonitor, LoRa Alliance, Luminar, MapBox, Marvell Technology, Mavenir, Marseille Inc, Mayfair Equity, Meraki (Cisco), Merck KGaA, Mesophere, Micron Technology, Microsoft, MiTEL, Mojo Networks, MongoDB, Multefire Alliance, National Instruments, Neat, NetApp, Nightwatch, NOKIA, Nortek, Novumind, NVIDIA, Nutanix, Nuvia (now Qualcomm), NXP, onsemi, ONUG, OpenStack Foundation, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Panasas, Peraso, Pexip, Pixelworks, Plume Design, PlusAI, Poly (formerly Plantronics), Portworx, Pure Storage, Qualcomm, Quantinuum, Rackspace, Rambus, Rayvolt E-Bikes, Red Hat, Renesas, Residio, Samsung Electronics, Samsung Semi, SAP, SAS, Scale Computing, Schneider Electric, SiFive, Silver Peak (now Aruba-HPE), SkyWorks, SONY Optical Storage, Splunk, Springpath (now Cisco), Spirent, Splunk, Sprint (now T-Mobile), Stratus Technologies, Symantec, Synaptics, Syniverse, Synopsys, Tanium, Telesign,TE Connectivity, TensTorrent, Tobii Technology, Teradata,T-Mobile, Treasure Data, Twitter, Unity Technologies, UiPath, Verizon Communications, VAST Data, Ventana Micro Systems, Vidyo, VMware, Wave Computing, Wellsmith, Xilinx, Zayo, Zebra, Zededa, Zendesk, Zoho, Zoom, and Zscaler. Moor Insights & Strategy founder, CEO, and Chief Analyst Patrick Moorhead is an investor in dMY Technology Group Inc. VI, Fivestone Partners, Frore Systems, Groq, MemryX, Movandi, and Ventana Micro.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.