Login 
Peter 
12 January 2023
 
Samsung Android Rumors
 Just by looking at the upcoming Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra you may not see anything different from the 2022 model. However, the new flagship has several major improvements under the hood – the exclusive Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and the new 200MP camera being the big ticket items. There will be other improvements too, leakster Ice Universe says that “focus is no longer a problem”. As you may remember, the Galaxy S20 Ultra, which was Samsung’s first 108MP phone, had some focusing issues at launch. Those were fixed with a software update and the cameras of the subsequent models were tweaked for better results. Now the Ultra is jumping to a new generation of sensors and if The Cat is right, there should be no repeat of the S20 Ultra issues. The leakster also claims that the camera image stabilization system has been greatly improved. 




Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra The Galaxy S22 Ultra speaker wasn’t the loudest, but Samsung has allegedly addressed this issue for the 2023 release – bass in particular has been improved, writes Ice. Additionally, the new Ultra phone will be equipped with a very capable set for microphones. The Galaxy S23 series is three weeks away from launch day and Samsung is offering discounts to those who book a phone early. Improvements to the camera focus and loudspeaker performance may not be what drives buyers to get one, but these things could make owners happier in the long term. Source your note 20 ultra can't compete with iphone 11 pro leave alone iphone 14 pro lol. The usual "This defect will be fixed in the next model" method of telling your customers that you hate them. 
 
I bet it's fixed in other brands of phones too. This is not true. I'm from the Philippines and I got an invite to reserve the next Galaxy from both Samsung and my service provider (Globe). 


Phone finder
 


All brands



Rumor mill

 
Home
News
Reviews
Compare
Coverage
Glossary
FAQ
RSS feed
Youtube
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
 
© 2000-2024 GSMArena.com
Mobile version
Android app
Tools
Contact us
Merch store
Privacy
Terms of use
Change Ad Consent
Do not sell my data
