Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Brittany Vincent, 
                              
              Tom Horton
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein, 
                              
              Nina Bradley
 
Updated on:  July 10, 2024 / 3:42 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           No matter what you use it for, your internet connection is likely one of the most important features of your home. And if you're moving, there's a decent chance that you may need to shop for a new one. Either way, if your internet speed is lacking, we have you covered with the absolute best internet routers on the market today. The best internet routers in 2024 offer a stable connection, expansive coverage, robust security and user-friendly tools. But other details matter, too: How big is your home? Are you using the best router to go with your AT&T or other internet service provider? How many devices will be connecting simultaneously? Larger families may want a router that has additional bandwidth support. We answer these questions and more with our list of the best internet routers of 2024 below. Whether you just casually browse the internet or you're a hardcore user, there's a router that can handle everything you need. Not sure where to start, or just need a nudge in the right direction? Here are our curated picks for the best internet routers in 2024. Pick up one of these top internet routers of 2024 for the best internet speeds and overall performance.  The Netgear Nighthawk RAXE300 is a force to be reckoned with. If you're tired of weak signals in yards or garages, this tri-band router has extensive range, especially across the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz spectrum. That means it's more than equipped to serve up reliable connectivity and speed.    At a glance, you can see part of what makes it so special. It's a sleek, modern device that doesn't have the clunky appearance many other routers suffer from. It resembles a stealth fighter more than a router, which helps to set it apart from the rest of the pack. With its 6G WiFi capabilities, it's even prepared to tackle gigabit internet speeds if you're lucky enough to have an ISP that offers them.    But there are some drawbacks. Its associated app could benefit from a facelift, offering a bit more in the settings department. It also tends to lean on the technical side when it comes to setup and configuration. It's also worth noting the limited quality-of-service settings. Tech-savvy folks may feel more comfortable during setup, but that doesn't mean it's so prohibitive that newbies can't set it up.    It's more than evident that the Nighthawk RAXE300 is ahead of the pack. Whether it's aesthetics, power, or coverage you're after, it's a strong contender, and one of the best, most reliable routers you'll find.    This powerful internet router is currently marked down 30% from its original price of $400.   Why we like the Netgear Nighthawk RAXE300:  The Asus RT-AX86U is one of the most impressive Wi-Fi 6 routers you can find right now. It can blast through regular internet browsing, accommodate multiple devices putting the internet under heavy load, and stand up to regular gamers who clock long hours on demanding titles.    Its performance metrics are outstanding, clocking impressive speeds of over 900 Mbps from a 15-foot distance. But it's not just about speed. Its range punches through walls and floors without breaking a sweat.    Tailored equally for gamers and general usage, its myriad of features and ports come without the hefty price tag often seen on high-end gaming equipment, but it's absolutely worth adopting if you or anyone in your household games regularly.    Additionally, with in-built lifetime protection against security threats and a two-year warranty, it's a comprehensive solution for anyone looking for both performance and security.    Why we like the Asus RT-AX86U:  If you don't need the best and the brightest router, you can rein things in and opt for the TP-Link Archer AX6000. It's a testament to finding a balance between value and performance; it can still deliver the kind of speed and range you need, but at a lower price.    Regularly priced $100 below its WiFi 6 counterparts, this router offers substantial bandwidth that caters to everyone, except maybe the most hardcore gamers. It can power through some serious Netflix binge-watching, but if you plan on diving into some overnight Fortnite marathons or downloading large files at the same time as everyone else in the house, you'll want to spring for a different model.    For everyone else, this cheaper option will do the trick. With router-based security and 8 Ethernet ports, the Archer AX6000 doesn't just excel at WiFi, but also at wired connections.   Its design is minimalistic, with a single LED indicator that shows you when everything's running smoothly. It also has a WPS key for quick setup with compatible pieces of tech, and an option to turn WiFi transmissions off, essentially converting it into a purely wired router. It's all that and more -- at a price that's much more affordable than the competition.    Why we like the TP-Link Archer AX6000:  The Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX11000 is a gamer's dream come true. In addition to its imposing exterior that looks like it was ripped straight out of a gaming PC, it delivers incredible range and speeds that don't falter.    With its larger size and eight antennas, its performance speaks volumes, especially with its impressive 10.8Gbps max throughput. Equipped with a tri-band design, four Gigabit LAN ports, a 2.5G Ethernet connection, and dual USB 3.0 ports, it can handle just about anything you try to put it through. That means long gaming sessions, binge-watching your Netflix faves, and anything else you can think of doing online. It'll keep you online and help you enjoy your internet service's blinding speeds to their highest potential.   For those who crave customization, this router's gaming-specific enhancements are a treat. Pair it with other Asus routers to create a sprawling mesh network, and enjoy unrivaled speed and connectivity that echoes throughout your entire home.    This may be one of the most premium choices that you'll find (and pay for), but it nearly guarantees hardcore gamers a leg up on the competition. Still, its price tag is eye-wateringly high. Go for this router if you absolutely must have one of the best on the market for gaming purposes.    Why we like the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX11000:  Sometimes you just don't need the best of the best. Some midrange options at low prices will work just as well. The Linksys EA8300 Max-Stream is the perfect pick for anyone watching their budget.    As a compact tri-band router, it's equipped with an arsenal of tools anyone can fine-tune for peak performance. But it also works just fine out of the box with default settings and can provide anyone with the connectivity they need.    While best suited for smaller spaces, it still manages to impress with its range and high speeds at such a low price. The flexibility it offers - be it bandwidth prioritization for gaming, streaming, or deploying parental controls - is accessible both from desktop and mobile devices.    Moreover, it's a much smaller, less flashy router that doesn't look like the "gamer" edition that some of its contemporaries do. And if that's important to you, you'll find a sturdy, reliable, and great-looking router here. If you want the ability to customize your router and enjoy seamless connectivity at a low price, the Linksys EA8300 Max-Stream is a great choice.    Why we like the Linksys EA8300 Max-Stream:  Whether you're gaming, streaming high-quality video, or streaming your own videos, you probably want to know which router can hook you up with blazing fast speeds. A few routers that are available today can, under perfect conditions, reach a data transfer rate of 11,000 megabits (tiny units of data) per second.  Chief among these speedster internet routers is one of our top picks, the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX11000. Two other routers that are capable of reaching these speeds are both courtesy of Netgear: The Netgear RAXE500 and the Netgear RBKE963.  The trick to reaching these speeds is to have a great router and service from a reliable internet provider. Here's a quick look at the top speeds you can typically reach with different internet companies:  An internet router, or just a "router," is a device that connects your home network to the internet. It manages data traffic and makes sure that each device in your home, including smartphones, laptops, TVs, and more receive information from the web. The router also assigns unique addresses to each device to differentiate them.  Additionally, many routers come with built-in firewalls to enhance security, protecting your devices from bad actors. By managing both incoming and outgoing traffic, routers can ensure a stable internet connection for all the devices you connect to it. A modem and a router are different, but they're both necessary if you want to connect to the internet and use wireless devices. A modem is the device that communicates directly with your internet service provider and brings the internet connection into your home. Once the internet connection is established through the modem, the router then takes over to bring this connection to various devices in your home, either wirelessly or through wired connections.    The modem brings the internet to your "doorstep," and the router makes sure that the internet is accessible for devices inside your house. Most routers come with security features that help protect your devices from potential online threats, while also managing traffic. Sometimes, you'll find devices that combine both the modem and the router into one unit, which people typically refer to as gateway devices or modem-router combos.   When you're in the market for an internet router, there are a few things you should keep in mind. Consider the speed. Routers often come labeled with terms like "AC1200" or "AX6000." In simple terms, a higher number often indicates a faster potential speed. However, you should make sure that speed aligns with what your actual internet service plan offers. You can't "speed up" your internet by just buying a faster router.    Range is another critical factor, especially if you have a large home or thick walls. Some homes might benefit from routers with a "mesh system," which uses multiple units spread throughout the house for improved reach. Further, plenty of modern routers offer built-in features like firewalls, parental controls, and sometimes even antivirus protection. Regular security updates can also be a bonus to keep out anyone who might be trying to get into your network.    Also, the number of Ethernet ports on a router can be a deciding factor. Their wired connections are often more stable and faster, which is a boon for those who work at home or even anyone who streams or games online a lot. You'll also want to consider whether the router is dual or tri-band. That means that the router can broadcast on multiple frequencies, which can cut through potential congestion when several devices are online at the same time.    Easy router setup makes the entire situation much less of a headache, too. Many modern options come with easy-to-use apps or user interfaces. And of course, there's the matter of cost. Routers come at all different price ranges so finding a balance between your needs and budget is important. But as always, before making a final decision, you should either read reviews from those you trust, ask around, or set out all your needs and tally them up against the choices you're deciding between.    First, it acts as a central point of access to the internet for multiple devices, such as smartphones, laptops and smart TVs. That means that all your devices can connect to the internet simultaneously without their own individual connections. In addition to managing multiple connections, routers enhance the security of your online activities. They come with security features that protect your devices and data.    Routers also assign unique addresses to each device, ensuring that data goes to the correct device. Moreover, many modern routers optimize the internet speed and performance, ensuring you get a stable and efficient connection. In essence, an internet router acts as both a hub and a shield for your internet activities, making it a vital component for any household or business wanting a seamless and secure online experience.   WiFi 6 and WiFi 6E refer to the latest generations of wireless internet technology, designed to improve how devices connect to the internet. WiFi 6, technically known as 802.11ax, is a step up from the previous version, WiFi 5. It offers faster wifi coverage and speeds, especially in crowded areas, which makes for a more smooth and uninterrupted connection. It's particularly beneficial in homes with several devices since it's designed to handle multiple connections.    WiFi 6E takes this a step further. WiFi 6E has all the benefits of WiFi 6, but the "E" stands for "Extended." This basically means it has even more bandwidth. As a result, devices using WiFi 6E experience less interference and even faster connections. So, when considering new devices or routers, opting for those compatible with WiFi 6 or WiFi 6E can offer a more reliable and enhanced internet experience.   Leaving an internet router on all the time is safe to do -- just so you don't have to worry about getting up all night and turning it on and then turning it off again. Keeping it on ensures connection to the internet without interruption, and that's especially important for security systems or smart-home devices. Additionally, frequently turning a router off and on might lead to wear and tear over time.    Of course, there are a few things to keep in mind. Routers can get hot, so it's important to place yours in a well-ventilated area to prevent overheating. Also, for security reasons, you should occasionally restart your router. This can clear certain types of malware or potential vulnerabilities, and you of course want to accept updates then they come available.    Knowing when to upgrade your router can depend on a few things. One major sign is when your internet speed starts dropping and falling short of the speeds you're paying for each month. If you've done all the typical troubleshooting and determined that your modem isn't the issue, it might be your router. As routers get older, they might not support the faster speeds that newer internet packages offer.    Another indicator is if you have a lot of dropped connections, or if a signal doesn't cover your entire home anymore -- if it ever did. An older router may struggle to handle the load of multiple devices on the same network as well. Security is a huge concern too. If your router no longer gets firmware or security updates from its manufacturer, it could leave your network vulnerable. All of these factors can help you determine when it's time to consider an upgrade so you can get the most possible out of your internet service and wireless network. Brittany Vincent has been covering gaming, tech, and all things entertainment for 16 years for a variety of online and print publications. She's been covering the commerce space for nearly a decade. Follow her on Twitter at @MolotovCupcake. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Day 1 of the Democratic National Convention will feature addresses from President Biden and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. CBS News political director Fin Gómez has more on Clinton's speech and other notes about the convention, including how it differs from last month's Republican National Convention.
         
          The 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago will be the first time the Windy City has hosted the convention since 1996. Adriana Diaz breaks down why Chicago was picked to host this year's DNC.
         
          At least two people have died as a result of flash flooding that hit Connecticut and other parts of the Northeast. Parts of New Jersey and New York's Long Island were also hit hard. Nikki Battiste reports.
         
          Democratic Rep. Katherine Clark, the House minority whip, joined CBS News to discuss the Democratic National Convention, President Biden's decision to step aside and former President Donald Trump's continued attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris.
         
          Six people, including two Americans, are missing after a yacht sank off the southern tip of Italy. At least one person has died.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.