Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? It’s not talked about often, but staying healthy and exercising regularly can really help with your mental health, and if you’re the sort of person who struggles to stay active, it can be tough. Luckily, there is a lot of great fitness equipment that can help motivate you to keep going with minimal effort. That’s why home gym deals can be quite beneficial for those who struggle with exercise, but if you’re just looking to start out with basics, then there are some great fitness deals on things like treadmills and dumbells available. We’ve collected some of our favorites below, but it’s also worth checking out these NordicTrack deals and Bowflex deals. One of the worst things about dumbbell training is having too many dumbbells. They can take over your whole gym. This deal (on a SINGLE dumbbell, so buy two!) can take the place of five dumbbells in your complete gym kit. Instead of one 55-pound dumbbell, you’re getting an 11-pound dumbbell, a 22-pound dumbbell, and so on up until the 55 pounder. This is advantageous if you’re just starting out with working out and don’t know what weight you need to start with or if you want to do different exercises with different weights. Finally, note that the design of the adjustable dumbbell is quite safe as you can only adjust the weights (via a simple handle turning mechanism) while they are laid carefully on tray. Once they’re off, the weight is “locked in” so to speak until you return them to the try. No lost toenails here!  It may not be immediately obvious, but going up and down a staircase is difficult work and is an excellent form of cardio if you’re looking to take it to the next level. Luckily, this Echelon Stair Climber is a great option, with three incline levels and convenient wheels that allow you to move it around easily. It can also store flat, which is a huge plus, and Echelon throws in a 30-day membership to Echelon Choice, which has a huge selection of on-demand content, so it’s nice to try out before plunging in with a fully-paid membership.  Not all treadmills have to be super expensive, and the Echelon Stride is a good budget-oriented option that still has a lot of features. It has a long but thin 16 x 47-inch belt for you to run on which is also well-suited for smaller spaces. You get a max speed of ten miles per hour, which is pretty solid if you’re just starting out, and the 15 pre-programmed modes should be more than enough, although you can set three custom workouts if you want.  The NordicTrack Commercial VU29 is a quiet workout bike for low impact cardio. It is also a rather quiet machine, which is specially designed to keep your workout quiet. Alongside a free 30-day subscription to iFIT, where a trainer can automatically adjust your 24 digital resistance levels, you can also bike in a simulated area of your choosing using Google Maps. The result is a realistic workout simulation without ever having to leave the room. Its quiet nature is perfect for those looking after a baby or who are always on call from the work from home office. The NordicTrack Commercial VU29 carries cyclers up to 325 pounds.  If you want a more traditional cycling experience, you can check the Matrix ICR50, with a magnetic resistance wheel which will give you the feel of a regular bike. You can pick between 11 resistance levels, which is great if you’re just starting to move to the next stage of your training. That said, it’s worth noting that it doesn’t have a screen or heart rate sensor, so if you want either of those two, you’re missing out.  The Schwinn 470 Elliptical provides a unique elliptical workout experience. It has a 20-inch stride that uses foot motion technology to more properly simulate a natural running motion than most other ellipticals. It is able to be adjusted to 25 different resistance levels and be put on an incline of up to 10-degrees. You can challenge yourself with these settings via the 200+ virtual courses included in the “Explore the World” subscription you can add on to the machine or one of the 29 workout programs included with the machine.  The NordicTrack RW900 Smart Rower provides an indoor rowing environment so you can get the healthful movement of rowing no matter the weather (of if you even have a lake nearby). It has 26 levels of resistance, so you can practice the basic body movements or get a serious resistance workout. At the foot of the NordicTrack RW900 is a 22-inch HD screen which guides you through your iFIT training class. This model comes with 30 days of iFIT for free, where trainers can take over automatically, setting resistance levels and guiding your through a workout.  The NordicTrack Fusion CST provides a lot of options for how to work out in a single device. That’s due to its six cables, placed in pair at high, shoulder-height, and low positions. The low cables can be attached to your ankles to work out your legs and build muscles strength. With a device so complex, you’ll be happy to get 30 days of iFIT training for free so your can get a good idea of how to best use the device to suit your needs. You’ll be able to see your trainer on the included 10-inch Smart HD Portal 10i tablet, which lets you follow your iFIT trainer and view your stats all in one convenient place.  Fitness trackers are a great way to start any journey into getting into shape. Fitness trackers often sync with your smartphone with a health app so you can track your steps, your mileage activities such as running, cycling, swimming, your calories burnt, and more. They are typically waterproof, dustproof, and generally durable so you can wear them no matter where you are and what you are doing. Resistance bands are also great tools for getting into shape, no matter where you are. They are lightweight and usually come with a carrying bag for easy transport. On the other hand, there are total home gyms that bring all of your favorite machines to the comfort of your home. Total home gyms can be on the pricey side, but they are convenient and ultimately save you money in the long run when compared to gym fees. You can mix and match your pricier fitness equipment through elliptical deals and treadmill deals. If you don’t want to buy too much equipment, yoga is a great way to get into shape and get in touch with your spiritual side. Yoga requires very little supplies since all you really need is a decent yoga mat. We’ve included a great deal on a yoga mat here, but there are hundreds to choose from out there in all different colors and sizes. If you want to take a more old-school route, dumbbells are a fitness equipment classic. Purchasing a wide range of dumbbells weights can be expensive and take up a lot of space in your home gym. Fortunately, adjustable dumbbell sets that eliminate the space issue and can save money, too. Adjustable dumbbells use various designs that allow you to quickly add and reduce weight. You can easily add and remove weight plates for each muscle group and for your regimen of reps and sets. Diet and exercise have an important symbiotic relationship. Your body can only work with what you give it. Meal kit deals can save you time and money on meal prep, and provide an easy structure to follow. Looking for more great stuff? Find more on our curated deals page. It’s difficult to call your kitchen complete without the proper oven, and if you enjoy preparing meals for yourself or your loved ones you can do so with some major savings. Some of the best oven deals we’ve seen are taking place today, and if you’ve been considering smaller appliances such as air fryer deals, Instant Pot deals, or Ninja Foodi deals, you may also want to consider simply getting a brand new oven. They can be expensive, but we’ve tracked down all of today’s best oven deals to make it worth your consideration. You’ll find top brands with discounted models as well as plenty of smart features to be included. Some other savings are also available for the kitchen, and if you’re in the market for more be sure to check out today’s refrigerator deals and appliance package deals.
GE 4.8 cu. ft. freestanding gas range — $530, was $585 One of the most affordable ovens you can find right now is this GE freestanding range, and it’s made even more affordable with its current sale price. This is a bit of a no-frills option, though it’s a perfectly competent oven. It has four cooktop burners and a durable design. The burners are sealed to eliminate the space between them and the cooktop, which prevents spills from spreading. This oven checks in at 4.8 cubic feet of space to cook with and it even has a broiler drawer that offers a convenient space to crisp or toast items. Today you can start the day off with both a great cup of coffee and some savings. Coffee maker deals are popping up all over the place, and one of the most popular names on the market — Keurig — is seeing a lot of its coffee makers discounted. Keurig often places models among the best coffee makers, so just about every Keurig deal is worth taking a look at. We’ve rounded up all of the best Keurig deals going on right now, and below you’ll find all of the details. If you’d like to feel out some similar options you should take a look at the best espresso machine deals, and best Nespresso deals, and if you’d like to add some other appliances to your kitchen don’t miss out on everything that’s going on among the best air fryer deals, best Instant Pot deals, and best Ninja Foodi deals today.
Keurig K-Mini coffee maker — $60, was $100 The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker is a stylish coffee maker that looks good in any kitchen or break room. It suits smaller spaces particularly well, as it’s less than five inches wide. Despite its smaller size, it’s still fully capable. It can brew any cup size between 6-12 ounces, and it’s able to brew coffee, tea, cocoa, and even iced beverages. The Keurig K-Mini single serve coffee maker has easy cord storage for transport and tidying up your countertop after use, and an energy efficiency feature turns the coffee maker off automatically 90 seconds after your last brew. Ninja is a great small kitchen appliance brand if you’re looking for both some convenience and some savings around the kitchen. It makes some of the best air fryers and best pressure cookers, and when you’re shopping Ninja Foodi deals you can almost always find some of the best air fryer deals. But the Ninja Foodi lineup has all sorts of ways to cook across a range of appliances, and with so much to choose from we thought we’d track down all of the best Ninja Foodi deals in one place. You’ll find them all below. You can also shop refrigerator deals and oven deals if you’re looking for larger kitchen appliances, or there are some really great coffee maker deals worth shopping right now, and they include both Keurig deals and Nespresso deals.
Ninja Foodi 12-in-1 Deluxe XL 8-quart pressure cooker — $220, was $250 With the Ninja Foodi 12-in-1 Deluxe XL 8-quart pressure cooker you can add all sorts of ways to cook to your kitchen. It has 12 different cooking functions, and they include pressure cooking, air frying, steaming, slow cooking, broiling, roasting, and baking. It has an extra large, 8-quart capacity that offers enough space to cook for the entire family at once. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.