Alabamians who filed taxes in 2021 can expect a $400 rebate in the next few months if Gov. Kay Ivey’s budget proposal makes it through the legislature. “Just as every Alabama family budgets to invest, pay their debts and increase their savings, my budget proposals do just that for our state,” Ivey said in a news release. “From returning our taxpayers’ hard-earned dollars back to them to making historic investments in our students’ education, these budgets will help foster a strong Alabama today and a stronger Alabama tomorrow.” Ivey released her proposals Tuesday for both the $2.8 billion supplemental appropriation and the 2024 education trust fund budget ahead of the re-start of the legislative session. Related: Gov. Kay Ivey’s record budget request includes 2 percent pay raise for state employees The $2.8 billion in unexpected revenue has been the subject of much discussion in recent months. The Legislature passed a $7.7 billion education budget for the last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, but the state raked in $10.4 billion in income taxes, sales taxes, and other revenues that support the Education Trust Fund. The Governor’s proposal divides the proceeds into three major buckets: tax rebates, education, and other agencies included as part of the regular education budget process. The tax rebates are expected to cost $966.8 million. Finance Director Bill Poole said taxpayers could have those rebates as early as 60 to 90 days after lawmakers approve the supplemental appropriation. In her State of the State address, Ivey said the one-time rebate of $400 would mean $800 in rebates for working families. K-12 education The Department of Education would receive $604 million for one-time K-12 expenditures, including: Local boards of education would receive $59 million, of which $40 million would be given to school systems that were most in need of buses and $19 million would pay for the 2% raises for teachers and support personnel. Higher education Universities are also included in the supplemental appropriation, with most of the money earmarked for facility needs: The Alabama Community College System would receive $252.4 million of which $100 million must be used for prison education and $30 million for upgrading career tech facilities and equipment. The rest is for facility needs. Other state agencies and entities The Department of Economic and Community Affairs would receive $200 million for competitive grants for revitalization and development for rural areas through the Main Street Program The Department of Commerce would receive $164.5 million, with the following money earmarked for special purposes: Other items in Ivey’s supplemental appropriation proposal include: RECOMMENDED•al.com SEC baseball tournament likely to remain in Hoover through 2028Aug. 16, 2024, 12:37 p.m. Battling historic blazes, wildland firefighters face political brinkmanship over fair pay. But there’s hope.Aug. 14, 2024, 1:05 p.m. Both of Ivey’s proposals must go through the regular legislative process, meaning both the Senate - where the education appropriations start this year - and the House must agree on how to spend the record amounts of money.  Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey's ETF Supplemental proposal - March 21, 2023 by Trisha Powell Crain on Scribd If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices