(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024  Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online. (Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024  Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.) Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.  Spotted a flying saucer? Don’t fret, it’s just doing an e-com delivery. Why Akasa’s losses are mounting when IndiGo is posting record profits Mirae Asset's Surana sees overvaluation in select defence stocks, but feels market is fairly valued Remember the July 19 global computer outage? Turns out Microsoft made just one error. And it wasn’t something technical. Three reasons why Mumbai, NCR beat Bengaluru in the IPO treasure hunt Ignoring mid-caps is not an option, and being selective is a necessity: 6 stocks from different sectors with an upside potential of up to 38 % Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Top Searched Companies Top Prime Articles Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Top Videos Top Definitions Most Searched IFSC Codes Private Companies Latest News Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Worry not. You’re just a step away. It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits Log out of your current logged-in account  and log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.  To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime ₹34 per week 
                    Billed annually at 
                    ₹2499 ₹1749 Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off On ET Prime Membership Offer Exclusively For You Save up to Rs. 700/- ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Freedom Offer Get flat 20% off on ETPrime     90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion across 20+ sectors Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends on 4000+ Stocks ​Get 1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+ worth Rs.799/-​ Stories you might be interested in