Layoffs have made it easier to poach star AI talent, according to the CEO of Intuit. That's despite a rush fueled by the success of ChatGPT, DALL-E, Midjourney, and other AI tools. Sasan Goodarzi has been bullish on AI since taking the helm of Intuit in early 2019. Employment instability at the major tech firms is making it easier to poach star talent even when they still have jobs, according to Sasan Goodarzi, chief executive of software giant Intuit. Intuit, whose software products include email-marketing service Mailchimp, tax-filing software TurboTax, and credit service CreditKarma, has been investing heavily in artificial intelligence since Goodarzi took the top job in 2019, succeeding longtime CEO Brad Smith. Asked if AI hiring was more competitive thanks to the post-ChatGPT investment rush, Goodarzi told Insider in a March interview: "It's actually become easier because of all the tech layoffs, because of the uncertainty the layoffs have caused. It's getting people to raise their heads who wouldn't. "Looking back over the past six or seven months, it's been far easier to find that type of talent — data and AI have been core to our strategy," he added. "When we talk to engineers that understand AI, they see our investments, it's actually easier." Industry executives warned last year that mass layoffs risked hurting the morale of workers who did keep their jobs and could put off potential talent from applying for roles in future. And tech employees currently worried about their "tenuous positions" are actively looking for more stable employment, two prominent business school professors, Dartmouth Tuck School's Vijay Govindarajan and the University of Calgary's Anup Srivastava, wrote in the Harvard Business Review in November. Alphabet, Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon have conducted large-scale layoffs since the end of 2022, affecting around 70,000 workers collectively as they refocus on efficiency and profitability. Goodarzi added that the uncertain environment is such that "it's just easier to recruit folks that still have jobs." Intuit remains unusual compared to its peers going into 2023 by one metric: No mass layoffs. The company had 17,300 employees, as of July last year, according to financial filings, up from 13,500 the prior year. A spokeswoman said the company has not conducted large-scale layoffs similar to other tech firms, and that the company had been "intentional" about how it had grown parts of its business. For its fiscal Q2, Intuit reported net income of $168 million, up year on year from $100 million, on revenues of $3 billion, up year on year from $2.7 billion. The spokeswoman declined to detail how many AI roles the company had hired over the past year, but said the firm uses the technology for millions of interactions with customers and to generate predictions. In an earlier interview with Insider in 2019, Goodarzi talked up AI and spoke about spending time shadowing Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella, who spearheaded the firm's multibillion-dollar investment with ChatGPT-maker OpenAI. "People laughed at the time, but I had shared that I believe, after electricity and the internet, AI would ignite global innovation in ways we could never imagine possible," Goodarzi told Insider during his recent interview. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.