
				Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud takes the Medical Readiness Command, Europes guidon from Lt. Gen. R. Scott Dingle, the Surgeon General of the Army and commander of U.S. Army Medical Command, at a ceremony in Sembach, Germany, Oct. 26, 2023. At right is the outgoing commander Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray, in the center is Command Sgt. Maj. Jesus Gonzalez. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 KAISERSLAUTERN, Germany — A new leader took charge Thursday of the U.S. Army’s medical readiness and patient care in Europe and Africa, an assignment that follows a big change in how military health care records are managed overseas. Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud took command of Medical Readiness Command, Europe, and its 6,000 medical personnel, during a ceremony at the Army’s base in Sembach. He also takes over as command surgeon for U.S. Army Europe and Africa. Giraud arrives from Joint Base San Antonio, where he was deputy commanding general of operations at U.S. Army Medical Command. Stepping aside for Giraud after 16 months on the job is Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray, who is returning to Texas to lead the Army Medical Center of Excellence at Fort Sam Houston. Before coming to Germany, Murray was the commander of Brooke Army Medical Center, Texas. Murray led the Army’s only overseas-based medical readiness command through part of the pandemic, Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine and the switch to MHS Genesis, which aims to provide a single, digital medical record for service members, veterans and their families.  
				The Medical Readiness Command, Europe color guard stands in formation at the units change of command ceremony in Sembach, Germany, Oct. 26, 2023. Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud took the reins from Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray at the ceremony. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 
				Sgt. 1st Class Chasidy Tenison sings the German and American national anthems at the Medical Readiness Command, Europe change of command ceremony in Sembach, Germany, Oct. 26, 2023, where Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud took over from Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 
				Lt. Gen. R. Scott Dingle, Surgeon General of the Army and head of U.S. Army Medical Command speaks at the Medical Readiness Command, Europe change of command ceremony at Sembach, Germany, Oct. 26, 2023. Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud took over from Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 
				Gen. Darryl Williams, left, commander of U.S. Army Europe and Africa, shakes hands with Brig. Gen. Roger Giraud, the new commander of Medical Readiness Command, Europe. Giraud took the unit's reins from Brig. Gen. Clinton Murray at the Oct. 26, 2023 ceremony in Sembach, Germany. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 
				Soldiers sing the Army Song at the conclusion of the Medical Readiness Command, Europe’s change of command ceremony in Sembach, Germany, Oct. 26, 2023. (Michael Abrams/Stars and Stripes)
			 All Defense Department hospitals and clinics in Europe switched to Genesis late last month, which was “probably the most emotional event” of his time in command, Murray said, “not only for the health care providers and the leaders but clearly for the family members and the beneficiaries.” The rollout has resulted in fewer available routine appointments and increased wait times for care, a change compounded in some locations by the scarcity of off-base health care. The delays and shortages will end as workers learn the system over the next few months, military medical officials have said. Army health care personnel “did amazing” in launching the new system, Murray said. Giraud said he looks forward to building on the command’s success “at an important and critical time in our nation’s history.” svan.jennifer@stripes.com @stripesktown Sign up to receive a daily email of today's top military news stories from Stars and Stripes and top news outlets
      from around the world. 
Sign Up Now 