
                
                    
                        Let Construction Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Vice president and division manager Nick Vovakes will helm the region, as the contractor pursues mass timber projects. An 11-year veteran at San Francisco-based contractor Swinerton will take over as vice president and division manager of its Seattle office, the company announced in a press release shared with Construction Dive. Nick Vovakes, who joined the company in 2011, was previously an operations manager and has more than 20 years of experience in the industry. His predecessor, Dave Worley, will retire in October after 21 years with the company. “We will focus on smart, organic growth, so we don’t lose that touch of family atmosphere, but we can branch off into some diversified markets and have a nice portfolio of work,” Vovakes said in the announcement.  In his previous role, Vovakes was instrumental in increasing the contractor’s healthcare footprint and expanding the Seattle office’s existing target markets, the release said.  One project that he recently oversaw is the Seattle Indian Health Board Clinic, a 2,600-square-foot facility which features a pharmacy and spaces for medical examination and procedures. The facility, run by the SIHB, provides nearby affordable housing units with medical, dental and behavioral health services.  Swinerton is also a leader in pursuing mass timber construction, so Vovakes will continue that with work on projects like the Heartwood workforce housing development, which is using cross-laminated timber. The project will house 126 studio and one-bedroom apartments, ranging from 324 square feet to 488 square feet. Swinerton claims it will be one of Washington’s tallest CLT buildings when complete. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Todd Friis, senior vice president of risk management for the Chicago builder, says his firm uses an array of tech safety tools to keep tabs on jobsites and for documentation after the fact. Photo illustration: Shaun Lucas/Industry Dive; Getty Images; OSHA A Guam contractor faces over $1 million in penalties for an alleged history of failing to protect workers in trenches. Subscribe to Construction Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Todd Friis, senior vice president of risk management for the Chicago builder, says his firm uses an array of tech safety tools to keep tabs on jobsites and for documentation after the fact. Photo illustration: Shaun Lucas/Industry Dive; Getty Images; OSHA A Guam contractor faces over $1 million in penalties for an alleged history of failing to protect workers in trenches. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines