 In my previous blog titled, “The Rise of Banking Services Frauds in India – A Case to Ponder”, an attempt was made to decipher the concept of Banking services frauds and discuss about the primary reasons for the prevalence of such nefarious activities in the recent times and the cause of delay in the detection of these frauds which has been primarily due to the lack of diligence procedures adapting to the rapidly evolving technology solutions. The present blog focuses on what are some of the most recent developments in the technology sphere that could be leveraged to mitigate and reduce such financial frauds and scams especially in the banking industry. Fraud Status during the last 5 years in data
Before focusing on the due diligence aspect, it is important to focus on the abysmal incidents of banking frauds relating to off-balance sheet exposures and forex transactions. The following charts based on RBI Annual Reports for the period 2017-18 to 2021-22, show the number of frauds, and the quantum of fraud in monetary terms for the period 2017 to 2022 classified based on area of operation, and bank group. It can be noted that credit/debit card and Internet related frauds have risen in the recent times while the amount of such frauds in comparison to the total amount has remained constant unlike the number of frauds in the area of advances which has been volatile but the number of frauds from advances have lowered in the last 3 fiscal years.   It is interesting to note that the number of frauds has been increasing in private sector banks compared to public sector banks, but the amount of these frauds is lower in the case of private sector banks during the period 2021-22.   Combating fraud with technology solutions
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has introduced the Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) to combat the problem of dubious businessmen fleeing with large sums of taxpayer’s money by laundering through a web of companies located in different geographies, which makes it difficult to check such transactions. Its primary goal is to detect and prevent banking fraud. In fact, the RBI has mandated a phased implementation of LEI (Legal Entity Identifier) for all Indian bank borrowers. After a certain date, entities that do not have an LEI code will not be granted credit facility renewal or enhancement. LEI is a unique 20-digit global reference number that identifies a company. LEI is widely regarded as a critical measure for improving the quality and accuracy of financial data through better risk management. Due diligence encompasses a wide range of factors that must be considered before making loans to individuals or businesses. The first preventive measure that banks can take is to screen applicants’ public records, ensuring their creditworthiness. The analysis of financial patterns of the entity or individual can be incorporated by financial institutions and banks. Tax filings, whether ITR or GST, are a good indicator of an entity’s business health and validity. Any lending institution should be concerned if there is a lack of GST or ITR data, as this can be an indicator of fraudulent intent or activity. In this case, the next preventive measure that banks can take is to screen the entities for any negative news that may have been published against the applicant in a given time period. Banks should capitalize on breakthroughs in AI and ML technology; integrating technology into banking operations without relevant understanding and analysis of the information gathered through them over time is a waste of that resource. Financial institutions should ideally build or integrate advanced fraud prediction models to proactively detect irregularities and weed out suspicious applicants. Proper governance, non-political interference, effective internal and external auditing, authentication protocols, transaction monitoring, raising fraud awareness, following RBI guidelines to report malpractice, and so on. Increasing fraud and inability of auditors to detect it has resulted in increasing demand for forensic accountants. The role of forensic accountants should be participative. They have the ability to use a unique procedure. The forensic accountant is in a better position to detect fraud. Organizations need to implement effective anti-fraud policies in order to distinguish between fraud and malfeasance. Employees are confused about the difference between fraud and error. Zero tolerance policy needs to be followed for any kind of fraudulent act committed by any person working at any level of organization. My journey in Academia started in 2009 as I discovered my passion for learning and teaching. I hold a doctoral degree in commerce with research interest in a wide array of areas including banking, finance and developmental economics. I am an Assistant Professor at International School of Management Excellence (ISME), a leading private b-schools in Bengaluru. whatsup University vibhu baydahi roy Any opinions and views expressed on or through the above content/blogs are those of the designated authors/bloggers and do not necessarily represent views of Times Internet Limited ("Company"). Further, the Company does not make any warranty as to the correctness or reliability of such content. Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service