Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Regulators are increasingly concerned about a new twist on the classic pump-and-dump scheme. It starts innocuously enough: You receive a message through an encrypted messaging platform asking if your daughter can come to a birthday party. You don't recognize the number and only have sons, so you write the sender back to let them know the message must have been misdirected. Thus begins an unexpected relationship that eventually reveals itself to be a stock scheme. After establishing a connection with you, your new friend mentions they have a relative with knowledge of a foreign company that just completed an initial public offering (IPO) on a U.S. exchange. It's a company with small market capitalization now but, according to the relative, it's poised to take off. Upon doing your research, you see that the price -- and apparently demand -- has been going up since the IPO. Your friend suggests that you buy the stock, at a certain price and quantity, directly through your own brokerage account, but that you'll need to place the order today to get in on the deal. It's enticing. What's the harm? Unfortunately, this social media scenario is already stage two in what regulators are calling a "ramp-and-dump" stock manipulation scheme. FINRA and other securities regulators inside and outside the U.S. are increasingly concerned about this new twist on the classic pump-and-dump scheme. A ramp-and-dump scheme is a type of pump-and-dump scheme. Traditionally, the price manipulation in pump-and-dump schemes is the result of falsified, heavily promoted news, financial statements, or other marketing communications and might include suspicious trading activity. In this variation, the price manipulation is primarily the result of controlled trading activity conducted by the bad actors behind the scam. Ultimately, the outcome for unsuspecting investors is the same -- a catastrophic collapse in share price that leaves investors with unrecoverable losses. FINRA has observed significant, unusual price increases on the day of or shortly after the IPOs of certain small-cap issuers, most of which involve issuers with operations outside the U.S. Regulators suspect some of these IPOs might have been manipulated in a ramp-and-dump scheme. Be alert to these red flags: Other hallmarks of a ramp-and-dump scheme that regulators have identified can be difficult, if not impossible, for retail investors to identify. These include the allocation of a significant amount of the shares to foreign broker-dealers or to a small number of investors, or the use of falsified foreign accounts to invest in and influence trading activity of these IPOs. If you're solicited for or interested in investing in a newly issued small-cap stock, take the following precautions: These schemes continue to evolve as bad actors adapt their approach to evade detection. If you think you've been a target or victim of a ramp-and-dump stock manipulation scheme, submit a regulatory tip to FINRA. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.