For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Gone are the days of taking a roll of film to a photo lab to get your pictures developed. While smartphones and digital cameras make it easier to take great photos to post on Instagram or Facebook, some of us still love having hard copies of pictures. Being able to hold photographs we take of loved ones and all of our adventures makes them special. Amazon certainly makes getting all sorts of goodies to us fast and easy, and it doesn't stop at photos. If you don't know about Amazon Photos yet, your picture printing projects are about to get a lot easier. It's inexpensive, to boot — prints start at just $.17. You have to be signed into your Amazon account to get started. You don't have to be a Prime Member to use the service, but the subscription comes with free shipping and unlimited storage (non-members get 5GB of storage for free). Once you are logged in, you can upload images to your Amazon photo dashboard. There, you can organize your photos as well as order prints and photo gifts. For simple prints, you can get your pictures developed in a variety of sizes with an option for a glossy or matte finish. 4x6-inch images are $.17 while the 5x7-inch photos are $.69 per print and 8x10s will set you back $2.09 apiece. For large prints, you get the choice of a matte or glossy finish with four size options: 11x14-inch prints cost $6.29, 12x18-inch prints are $9.99, 16x20-inch prints are $13.19 and you can get a picture as large as 20x30 inches for $17.90. If you want to get creative, you can turn your images into a collage. You can choose multiple photos and arrange them in the templates provided to print into an 8x10-inch collage in a glossy or matte finish for $1.99. Interested in creating holiday cards and gifts? Check out all the ways Amazon can help you turn your memories into keepsakes for friends and family. If you have Amazon Prime, you’ll get free shipping, of course. Not yet a member? No problem. You can sign up for your free 30-day trial here. (And by the way, those without Prime still get free shipping on orders of $25 or more.) Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement