House Speaker Kevin McCarthy joined other local politicians in sounding alarms about the ties between China and a secret lab that was shut down earlier this year in Reedley, talking with reporters Thursday in Clovis. News of the lab – run by company Prestige Biotech Inc., whose owners reside in China – broke last week along with concerns about vials of exotic contagions the lab had been illegally storing. A slew of state and federal agencies are investigating, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the FBI. The Bakersfield Republican, who met with the media at his newly opened office in Clovis, said he’d spoken to local officials earlier that day about the “disturbing” discoveries out of Reedley. He pledged to take these concerns back to the select committee on China he convened shortly after becoming Speaker of the House this January. “My concern is to get to the bottom of what happened here,” he said, “but also … where’s this happening in other parts of this country?” The speaker also alleged that Gov. Gavin Newsom’s administration provided the lab with state funding. “Now we’re finding out that the governor of California provided them with $360,000 in this process,” he said. A spokesperson from the California Governor’s Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz) told The Bee in an email that Universal Meditech, Inc., the predecessor of Prestige Biotech, received a $360,000 tax credit through the office’s California Competes program in April 2019, but the credit was ultimately revoked. “(Universal Meditech, Inc.) did not achieve any of its milestones and was not approved to claim any of the tax credits. GO-Biz recaptured the entire credit and voided the Agreement with UMI,” the spokesperson said. The office also said that Prestige Biotech never received any California Competes funding and that it was “never a party” to the agreement. McCarthy said he plans to follow up with the FBI in light of his discussions Thursday. “There’s a lot more questions that need to be answered,” he said. McCarthy took more than just one swing at Newsom. When asked about the future of the recently resurrected Tulare Lake following a barrage of storms this winter, McCarthy criticized the Democratic governor for putting up “roadblocks” to water storage leading up to this year. Much of California’s stormwater flows to the sea due largely to environmental laws that protect endangered species of fish. McCarthy and other politicians, meanwhile, are calling for more of this water to be pumped into reservoirs to increase the state’s water supply. “We’re living off infrastructure that was built in the 60s. We’re now 2023. We need to be planning for 2050,” he said. “And all (Newsom’s) done is fight it.” The Bee reached out to the governor’s office for a response to McCarthy’s criticisms. McCarthy added that he believes agriculture is “the greatest use” of the land beneath Tulare Lake and he wants to restore it to agriculture, although the lake is likely to stick around for months, if not longer. The tributaries that once fed the historic lake were diverted for agriculture in the early 1900s and the lakebed dried out, KVPR reported in June. The Yokuts tribe that once lived around the lake has gathered in recent months to honor the returned vestige of pre-colonial life. McCarthy spoke with reporters at the newly opened office in Clovis – the result of a promise he made to constituents in the recently redistricted 20th Congressional District. He represents an area that encompasses parts of Kern, Fresno, Tulare, and Kings counties, including areas of Bakersfield and Clovis. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.