
            Sticking up for yourself is no easy task. But there are concrete skills you can use to hone your assertiveness and advocate for yourself.
        Verified by Psychology Today 
                                    Updated June 23, 2023

|


Reviewed by Tyler Woods


 A good friend was complaining about her son who spent money way too freely and without concern, putting himself into debt on multiple credit cards. At the suggestion that perhaps it would help him to make it harder to use credit (by canceling some cards or locking them away) she indignantly said, “But he should be able to control himself without these tricks. He should have the willpower to just not spend money.” This sentiment showcases a belief that self-control is synonymous with willpower—that suppressing tempting impulses with pure force of will is the "best" way to control harmful impulses. By contrast, current psychological thinking suggests that there are many actions and thoughts people can take to direct their choices without having to resort to the strength of will. These self-control strategies can make goal-oriented choices easier and temptation-oriented choices less likely. For example, one might avoid tempting situations altogether, make some choices more accessible (for example, by leaving credit cards at home and bringing only limited amounts of cash), focus attention strategically (for example, looking at the price tag rather than the specs of a product), or remind oneself of one’s goals when faced with temptation (for example, by writing them down and bringing the piece of paper along). Self-control strategies are effective and help people to act more in line with their goals. However, while the "textbook" conceptualization of self-control includes the use of self-control strategies, the colloquial definition of self-control might be different. Do people feel—like my friend—that using strategies is a "trick," whereas willpower is the "real deal"?  One way to examine how people perceive self-control strategies is to ask them about their impressions of people who counter temptations with strategies and compare their responses to the impressions of people who counter temptations with the pure strength of will. This is what I, along with colleagues, did in research earlier this year. Across four studies in which we described such hypothetical people, participants consistently rated people who were described as using strategies as lower in self-control than people who were described as using willpower. Diminishing strategies as "tricks" was linked to less willingness to use self-control strategies in our studies. Thus, people who don’t recognize the value of self-control strategies might be missing out on some low-effort avenues to stay on track with their goals and resist temptation. Of course, some people recognize the value of strategies more than others, and those who do rate others who counter temptations with strategies as equally high in self-control​​​​​​. In our studies we also attempted to change people's personal definition. After reading an article on the importance of self-control strategies (not unlike the article you are reading right now) participants did not downplay the self-control of others who used strategies as much. Thus, the value of self-control strategies can be taught and the colloquial meaning of the term self-control might be shifted over time. My friend might be more open to "tricks" that help her son limit his spending as the understanding of what self-control means changes. Self-control strategies are an important part of realizing goals and resisting temptations. Self-control does not have to be hard. It can also mean arranging the world and one’s mind to make good choices more likely.  References Gennara, A., Peetz, J., & Milyavskaya, M. (2023). When more is less: Self-control strategies are seen as less indicative of self-control than just willpower. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 106, 104457. Johanna Peetz, Ph.D., is a professor of psychology at Carleton University (in Ottawa, Canada). She studies financial decisions, time perception, and close relationships. 
            Get the help you need from a therapist near you–a FREE service from Psychology Today.
       Psychology Today © 2024 Sussex Publishers, LLC 
            Sticking up for yourself is no easy task. But there are concrete skills you can use to hone your assertiveness and advocate for yourself.
      