NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT With some energy support ending in March, and the weather still on the chilly side, many people are worried about paying their energy bills. One of the schemes coming to an end this month is the Energy Bills Support Scheme which has given households a total of £400 off energy bills this winter. The Warm Home Discount – a one-off discount on electricity bills – is also ending. But the good news is that there is still plenty of help out there for those struggling – and in the Budget, Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt announced that the current £2,500 Energy Price Guarantee will be extended until June. So what does all this mean for bills, and which payments will still be available from April?  Here’s what you need to know. With Ofcom capping energy prices, the Energy Price Guarantee is basically a ‘cap on the cap’ – and helps to keep bills down. The Energy Price Guarantee limits how much suppliers can charge per kWh of energy. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
							browser that
							supports HTML5
								video It was brought in back in October 2022 and will last until April 2024. In the budget, the government announced it will stay at the current level -£2,500 until the end of June.  Note that this doesn’t cap your annual bills at £2,500 – it’s simply a discount on how much suppliers charge you for your energy. The Energy Price Guarantee is also nothing to do with the £66 or £67 monthly rebates many of us have been getting for the past six months as part of the Energy Bills Support Scheme, which finishes at the end of March. So those payments will end. What it means is that a typical household energy bill for dual-fuel gas and electricity will be around £2,500 per year in Great Britain (and around £2,109 in Northern Ireland). I took the DWP to tribunal over their PIP decision and won 'My weekend away turned into a holiday from hell - I still live with the consequences' The cost of living crisis really screwed us, we're better off living apart than together Lidl shoppers can get more than £100 worth of items for just £20 this week There are also grants available for those with energy debts. The grants are a non-repayable sum which can help you clear debts you’ve run up on gas and electricity bills. To be clear, you do not have to pay the money back at any time and it is credited directly to your energy account. You can find out more about energy grants and how to apply here. The Cost of Living payment was brought in by Rishi Sunak to help families on the lowest incomes as energy bills soared – and it will continue during 2023/4. You may be entitled to up to three Cost of Living Payments of £301, £300 and £299 if you get any of the following benefits or tax credits on certain dates: These will be paid in spring and autumn of 2023, as well as spring 2024. ‘Perfect’ dress for the beach from New Look now has 60% off and selling fast Shoppers rush to Dunelm to buy fans that are ‘really quiet’ – with prices from £2.50 This TikTok viral hot brush can give you a salon blowout in 5 minutes You can save an extra 30% off New Balance sale section – but you need to be quick Elevate your summer style with up to 50% off dresses and occasionwear from Ghost There’s also help for the disabled – people on any of the following benefits on a certain date (to be confirmed but likely to be at some point in summer 2023) can be eligible for a single, £150 Disability Cost of Living payment. 

	MORE : How to check if your energy bill is wrong as prices set to rise

 

	MORE : How to beat the April bill rises – from Council Tax to energy bills

 Follow Metro across our social channels, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram Share your views in the comments below Sign up to our guide to what’s on in London, trusted reviews, brilliant offers and competitions. London’s best bits in your inbox By ticking this box, you confirm you are over the age of 18*. Privacy Policy »  Get us in your feed