On today's episode of the 5 Things podcast: First Republic Bank seized USA TODAY Money and Personal Finance Reporter Medora Lee has the latest after First Republic Bank was seized and sold to JPMorgan Chase. Plus, President Joe Biden calls congressional leaders to the White House for talks on the debt ceiling, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis signs a measure making child rape subject to the death penalty, Montana state Rep. Zooey Zephyr sues Republican leadership after they voted to censure her and USA TODAY NOW Editor Anika Reed recaps the Met Gala. Podcasts: True crime, in-depth interviews and more USA TODAY podcasts right here Hit play on the player above to hear the podcast and follow along with the transcript below. This transcript was automatically generated, and then edited for clarity in its current form. There may be some differences between the audio and the text. Taylor Wilson: Good morning. I'm Taylor Wilson and this is 5 Things you need to know Tuesday, the 2nd of May 2023. Today, a look at the fallout after First Republic Bank was seized and sold to JP Morgan Chase. Plus, President Joe Biden invites congressional leaders to the White House for talks on avoiding a default on the nation's debt, and we have a recap from the Met Gala. ◆Regulators seized First Republic Bank yesterday and sold all of its deposits and most assets to JP Morgan Chase. The move marks one of the biggest bank failures in US history. I spoke with USA TODAY Money and Personal Finance Reporter Medora Lee to learn more. Hello Medora. Medora Lee: Hi, how are you? Taylor Wilson: Good, thanks. So, First Republic Bank has been sold off to JP Morgan Chase. What's the latest here? Medora Lee: So the latest is, after a lot of wrangling over the weekend, JP Morgan Chase has decided that it will take up First Republic Bank. So that means that they are going to take over all of the unsecured deposits that First Republic Bank has, so everybody's money is safe, so that's a good thing. And they are going to split some of the losses that the bank has for some of its mortgages and other sort of debt instruments and they're going to split it with the FDIC. Taylor Wilson: And Medora, who used First Republic? Medora Lee: So it was mostly wealthy people who put their money into First Republic Bank. First Republic Bank had this kind of strategy, they prided themselves in customer service for their wealthy clients to get their money to deposit into the bank. And then they would take that money and they would use it for loans, for houses or whatever, for other rich people. And so the big lure was the CEO thought that they could get away with this, offering very little interest when interest rates were low and maybe putting out a mortgage for like 3% rate or something less than that even. And so they would just make the difference. But when interest rates started to rise, their rich people decided they really didn't need all those great services that First Republic was giving them and they started moving their money to higher interest-bearing accounts. So this caused a huge problem. First Republic had to cover those deposits, but at the same time now they were losing money on those mortgages because interest rates had shot up so much. So this was where that big hole really came to fruition here and got them in trouble. Taylor Wilson: And how does this compare to the two other bank collapses that we saw earlier this year? Medora Lee: It was pretty similar. A lot of those banks also had what they call interest rate risk. The other banks were too invested in long-term treasuries because everything was paying so little. And then when the Fed started to raise interest rates so much and the value of those treasuries dropped, they started having these big holes in their balance sheets. Taylor Wilson: So Medora, this is the second-biggest bank failure in US history. How worried should people be that this could spread to other banks around the country? Medora Lee: This is the million-dollar question. If you listen to Jamie Diamond, the CEO of JP Morgan Chase, he reminds us all that the financial system is sound, but I think there's still some worries out there. The whole thing is we are only supposed to save the biggest and most important banks. And here, are we kind of reaching now into regional banks that we have to save, too? and then where's the line? And people get nervous and now that we've saved so many banks, are they going to target another bank? I don't know. I'm not really sure, and plus the Fed's not done raising rates yet. We still probably are going to expect another one on Wednesday. And after that, for June, nobody's really sure whether the Fed's going to have to raise rates again or take a pause. There's still a lot of uncertainty out there. For now though, I think everybody's money is safe. How long that's going to last? I'm not positive. Taylor Wilson: Medora Lee, thanks as always. Medora Lee: Okay, thanks Taylor. Have a good day. ◆Taylor Wilson: President Joe Biden yesterday summoned House Speaker Kevin McCarthy and other congressional leaders to the White House for talks next week on avoiding a default on the nation's debt. Biden's call to McCarthy came just an hour after Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned the federal government may not be able to pay its bills as soon as June 1st. Biden has been under pressure to talk to McCarthy after House Republicans passed a bill to raise the debt limit while cutting spending. Biden has maintained that the debt limit be raised without conditions. ◆Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has signed a measure making child rape subject to the death penalty, defying a US Supreme Court ruling. At a press conference, he said that in the worst of the worst cases, the only appropriate punishment is the ultimate punishment. In 2008, Supreme Court Justices issued a five-four ruling barring states from imposing the death penalty for the rape of a child when the crime does not involve a child's death. The court ruled that applying the death penalty in such cases would amount to cruel and unusual punishment. DeSantis though has said he thinks the current conservative majority Supreme Court may be willing to revisit the earlier ruling. ◆Montana State Democratic Rep. Zooey Zephyr is suing Republican leadership after they voted to censure her for comments she made criticizing colleagues over a bill restricting gender-affirming healthcare. The first openly transgender woman elected to Montana's legislature tweeted yesterday that recent actions violate her First Amendment rights as well as those of her constituents. The American Civil Liberties Union of Montana, along with several attorneys, filed the suit on her behalf in state court yesterday against the state of Montana. The Press Secretary for Montana Department of Justice Attorney General, Austin Knudsen, called the suit, "performance litigation." ◆It was a glamorous night at the Met Gala, and this year's theme recognized the work of late fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld. I spoke with USA TODAY Now Editor Anika Reed to hear all about it. Hi Anika, thanks for hopping on the show. Anika Reed: Hi, thank you for having me. Taylor Wilson: So let's start here for those who maybe don't know, what is the Met Gala? Anika Reed: So the Met Gala is also referred to as fashion's biggest night. If you're a sports fan, think of it as the Super Bowl of fashion. If you're an entertainment fan, think of it as the Oscars of fashion. Basically, the biggest event that you can think of having to do with fashion and art and history all combined into one. It's actually an invite-only fundraiser that helps the Metropolitan Museum of Arts Costume Institute, and it's held annually. Typically, it's on the first Monday in May. We had a little bit of a blip in the system with the pandemic and having it not be held on the first Monday in May for a couple of years, but we returned last year and we're back again this year. The Met Gala is basically every major celebrity who you can think of dressing up, having to do with a theme, and this year's theme was Karl Lagerfeld: A Line of Beauty. And yeah, this year's Met Gala was a huge showcase of fashion and legacy and the art that is design. Taylor Wilson: And the celebrities who showed up, did they stay on theme with the Karl Lagerfeld theme for the most part? Anika Reed: For the most part, absolutely. I think a lot of the invitees had a personal connection to Karl. And that being said, they wanted to honor him, honor his legacy. He died a few years ago and this exhibit really looks back at his entire career in fashion, and so we saw a lot of black and white, kind of nods to his typical suiting that he would wear. We saw a lot of pearls. We saw some gold and a lot of black and white. So, looking at some of the Chanel bride dresses and some archival pieces from people. So I'd say for the most part, yes, everyone stayed on theme, including Rihanna, who closed out the carpet and was wearing basically a giant Chanel-esque flower as her look, and was stunning. Taylor Wilson: Yeah, absolutely massive look from Rihanna. What were some of the other big outfits on the night from celebrities? Anika Reed: One of the big looks was Kim Kardashian. She was wearing Schiaparelli and she stopped and talked to us for a minute on the carpet. She just wanted to pay honor and tribute to Karl Lagerfeld, as I said, a personal connection there. Everyone from Dua Lipa, who was one of the co-chairs of the event, she showed up in a gorgeous white gown. White was definitely a big hit on the carpet this year. You had Gisele Bündchen in this huge feathery cape almost, all white as well. You had Diddy who was wearing a Sean John original, big black cape. He came with Yung Miami as his date. Anyone who you can think of, Usher was there, Russell Westbrook was there. Tom Ford was there. Naomi Campbell, Kate Moss, anyone who you can think of was probably there. Taylor Wilson: All right, Anika Reed, thanks so much. Anika Reed: Thank you. Taylor Wilson: Before we go, happy National Teacher Appreciation Day. If you have a chance, say thanks today to the teacher in your life. Thanks for listening to 5 Things. You can find us every morning right here wherever you get your audio. I'm back tomorrow with more of 5 Things from USA TODAY. This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: First Republic sold to JP Morgan, Met Gala recap: 5 Things podcast In a presidential campaign like no other -- and just four weeks after President Joe Biden bowed out of the race -- Democrats are gathering in Chicago this week to nominate Vice President Kamala Harris as their candidate to take on former President Donald Trump.  Delaware Sen. Chris Coons, a close Biden ally, spoke ahead of the president's keynote speech. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton electrified the crowd on the opening night of the Democratic National Convention as she portrayed Vice President Kamala Harris as someone who could break barriers and reach a pinnacle that eluded her throughout her own political career.  "Together, we've put a lot of cracks in the highest, hardest glass ceiling," Clinton said in her rousing remarks after receiving a warm welcome from the crowd at the United Center in Chicago.  Harris will be the second woman in history to accept a major party's nomination for president following Clinton, whose monumental 2016 run made history but ended with a general election loss to Donald Trump. Former President Donald Trump is spending the week traveling to battleground states -- a way of counterprogramming against the Democratic National Convention,  -- starting with remarks Monday on the economy and energy in York, Pennsylvania, just a few hours before key speakers took the stage at the DNC.  While Trump mostly focused his speech on economic messaging, he doubled down on his attacks on Harris, escalating his effort to pain her as a "communist."  Trump repeatedly called her "Comrade Kamala" and accused her of pushing "communist" policies – and at one point called her father, who is a renowned economist at Stanford, a "Marxist professor," saying "he taught her well." Charges were announced Monday against four men in connection with the fatal shooting of "General Hospital" actor Johnny Wactor in May.  Robert Barceleau, 18, was charged with one count of murder with special circumstances and personal use of a firearm, one count of attempted robbery with personal use of a firearm, and one count of grand theft with an allegation of principal armed with a firearm, according to Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascón, who announced the charges at a news conference.  The DA alleged Barceleau shot Wactor one time in his chest. A federal judge on Monday rejected the latest attempt by President Joe Biden's son Hunter Biden to dismiss several tax-related charges he faces in Los Angeles, all but ensuring that the case will go to trial as scheduled early next month.  In July, attorneys for Hunter Biden filed a pair of motions seeking to dismiss his cases in both California and Delaware, citing a decision by a federal judge in Florida to dismiss the classified documents case against former President Donald Trump.  Scarsi, in denying the motion, cited Hunter Biden's previous ill-fated efforts to dismiss the case. Democratic National Committee delegates on Monday evening by voice vote adopted the party's 2024 platform at their convention, a document that echoes President Joe Biden more than Vice President Kamala Harris and contains no call for an arms embargo on Israel as pro-Palestinian delegates and some uncommitted delegates had wanted.  The full, 92-page draft platform, unveiled by the party late on Sunday night, was written before President Joe Biden left the 2024 race, and was voted upon by the DNC's Rules Committee in July.  It has not been updated significantly since Harris replaced him at the top of the ticket. Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., on Monday pleaded guilty to wire fraud and aggravated identity theft, telling reporters outside the courthouse the guilty plea was the "right thing to do."  "This plea is not just an admission of guilt," Santos told the media.  In court, Santos, wearing gray slacks and a black sports coat, told the judge he was "committed to making amends and learning from this experience." When President Joe Biden bids the Democratic National Convention a bittersweet farewell Monday night, he will be introduced by one of his closest champions, his youngest daughter, Ashley.  Although she has remained mostly out of the spotlight compared to her siblings and mother, she has helped promote and advocate on behalf of her father as far back as her childhood.  Ashley Biden, 43, was born in June 1981, the only child of the then-Delaware senator and his second wife, Jill Biden. A 183-foot sailboat carrying 22 people sank early on Monday off the coast of the Italian island of Sicily following stormy weather in the area, killing at least one passenger, according to Italian officials.  Members of the coast guard have rescued 15 passengers, but six -- including two Americans -- are still missing, according to the coast guard and a local port authority.  British and Canadian citizens are also unaccounted for, the coast guard said in a statement. Heavy rainfall and severe flooding in Connecticut left two people dead and over 100 evacuated as the governor declared a state of emergency.  During a press conference in Oxford Monday, state police announced that residents Ethelyn Joiner, 65, and Audrey Rostkowski, 71, were found dead after flooding on Route 67 swept them away from their vehicles.  Firefighters attempted to rescue her while she held onto a traffic sign, but the racing water became too strong and she was swept away, police said. Patrick Mahomes is a proud husband and father.  On Sunday, Aug. 18, the NFL star's wife Brittany Mahomes shared a cute snap on her Instagram story that showed Patrick Mahomes reading a bedtime story to his two kids, Sterling Skye Mahomes and Patrick "Bronze" Lavon Mahomes III.  "Bronze started getting very mad he didn't get to participate in Sterling and Dad's bedtime routine, so he now has been added and mom gets to watch this sweetness," Brittany Mahomes wrote in text over the photo. Just a handful of states have yet to hold their primary elections this year, and on Tuesday, three more states will see voters head to the polls to finalize their ballots for November: Alaska, Florida and Wyoming.  While the sole race that we track in the Cowboy State (the at-large House seat currently held by Republican Rep. Harriet Hageman) isn't competitive, there are a few heated races worth watching in Florida and Alaska that could give us a glimpse into how the general election might shake out this fall. In Brooklyn, New York, a Black woman inspired by French culture opened the Je T'aime Patisserie bakery last summer.  It has risen to become a popular destination in the Bed-Stuy neighborhood in the year since.  Jatee Kearsley, from the neighboring borough of Queens, is the bakey's owner and described herself as a lover of everything that has to do with love, family, friends, relationships, food and community. As Vice President Kamala Harris prepares to formally accept the Democratic nomination for president this week in Chicago, the spotlight is focused on not only on her, but also her family.  Harris, who entered the 2024 presidential race after President Joe Biden ended his reelection campaign, is the stepmother of two children with her husband, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.  When she was sworn in as vice president in 2021, Harris, 59, made history as the first stepmother to be America's vice president. Barry Keoghan shared a sweet photo of his son Brando on social media over the weekend.  "He's more of a charmer than i am. Our wee Brando ☘️🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿," Keoghan wrote in the caption of an Instagram post Sunday.  Brando, 2, can also be seen playing with toys laid out on a table. Kate Hudson is a mom of three and the center of what she has described as a "patchwork family."  Hudson, 44, shares her eldest child Ryder with ex-husband Chris Robinson, 57.  The "Bride Wars" star also is a mom to two other children: son Bingham, 12, whom she shares with ex Matt Bellamy, and daughter Rani Rose, 5, whom she shares with fiance Danny Fujikawa. The World Health Organization (WHO) said Monday it has confirmed 1,940 attacks on health care in Ukraine since the war with Russia began in February 2022.  During the course of the war, 86% of these attacks have targeted health care facilities, usually with heavy weapons, according to the WHO.  The agency said attacks on health facilities have "intensified significantly" since December 2023 and are now occurring nearly every day. Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan are jumping in on the popularized "very demure" TikTok trend, which has taken the internet by storm.  "Straight hair, very demure," said Lohan in the video posted on Friday, imitating Jools Lebron, a TikTok user who has gone viral offering tips on how followers can appear "demure" and "mindful" executing daily mundane activities.  Lohan, sitting in a car with the Oscar winner, turns the camera to Jamie Lee Curtis. Zoë Kravitz and Channing Tatum are showing off two things: love and style.  The engaged couple was photographed in London during a photocall for "Blink Twice" photocall on Sunday wearing edgy ensembles that gave off "cool couple" vibes.  Kravitz, known to wear Saint Laurent for several past red carpets, wore a look from the luxury label that included a black, sheer lace-trimmed tank and matching knee-length skirt. Four children, ages 11 to 14, driving around Minneapolis in a stolen car were shot and wounded, one critically, when an assailant chasing them unleashed a barrage of gunfire on the vehicle, police said.  The shooting unfolded around 1 a.m. Sunday in northwest Minneapolis, setting off ShotSpotter gunfire detection activations and prompting multiple 911 calls, according to Minneapolis Police Chief Brian O'Hara.  Two boys and two girls were shot in the incidents, and an 11-year-old boy driving the stolen car was taken into custody, O'Hara said.