Liverpool beat Newcastle United in dramatic fashion on Sunday, Joelinton was lucky to escape punishment for a number of fouls against the Reds Follow the latest transfer news and more with our LFC newsletter We have more newsletters Follow the latest transfer news and more with our LFC newsletter We have more newsletters Newcastle United midfielder Joelinton escaped punishment for gesturing for a card after Virgil van Dijk's tackle on Alexander Isak that resulted in a sending off during Liverpool's win on Sunday. New rules, introduced for the 2023-24 season, have moved to clamp down on players ushering officials to caution or send off their opponents. The tweak in legislation joins the move to book an offender when the ball is kicked away after the whistle is blown - both Trent Alexander-Arnold and Darwin Nunez were shown yellow cards for that at St James' Park. And during the opening day draw with Chelsea, Alexis Mac Allister was hauled down just inside the Londoners' half as he looked to break through the lines and push the Reds forward. As he was felled, he looked up to referee, Anthony Taylor, and demanded that his opponent be booked. Instead, he too was shown a yellow card. Meanwhile, at St James' Park against Newcastle, John Brooks wasted no time in sending Liverpool captain Van Dijk for an early bath for his last-man challenge on Sweden's Isak. READ MORE: Alan Shearer thinks Liverpool could end up signing £45m man before deadline READ MORE: Darwin Nunez admits Newcastle anger after Liverpool struggles and online trolls In footage, captured in Liverpool's 'Inside Matchday' series, it then shows Brazil midfielder Joelinton telling the official to take action against Van Dijk. Joelinton somehow managed to avoid a yellow card in the whole contest. The 27-year-old made four fouls, including a series just before the end of the first-half. For context, he was one of two Newcastle players who committed four fouls without being booked in the game, along with Bruno Guimaraes. This happened just once in the entirety of last season for Liverpool, with Luis Diaz avoiding censure for four fouls at Leicester.  Indeed. Dominik Szoboszlai. Alexander-Arnold, Wataru Endo, Mac Allister and Cody Gakpo were all subject to fouls from Joelinton and it was something Liverpool supporters quickly picked up on during the game.  The International Football Association Board have posted rules surrounding what constitutes a yellow card. Law 12 sees caution offences include; dissent by word or action, persistent offences and excessively/persistently gesturing for a red or yellow card, to name a few. 