The Aurora school board came out of a closed-door session Wednesday and voted, with no discussion, to take no action on a report that substantiated a discrimination complaint from former superintendent Rico Munn. The public vote was unanimous. The executive session meeting lasted about an hour. The board agenda did not list a public meeting, but a spokesperson for the district had said the board would decide whether to meet publicly after the closed session. Colorado law generally requires that public meetings be announced 24 hours in advance.  The former superintendent alleged racial discrimination by the board, and specifically two members, Stephanie Mason and Tramaine Duncan. Munn said the board members had called his Blackness into question in part because they didn’t think he was doing enough to retain Black educators. An initial fact-finding report in May concluded the claims weren’t backed up because the board members are also Black, because Munn resigned rather than being fired, and because the Board didn’t admit to making some of the statements Munn alleged they had made. A second decision-making report completed in June used the fact-finding report, but found that Munn was effectively pushed out or fired and that racial discrimination did play a role.  That report recommended that the board censure Mason and Duncan, that the report be published on the district’s website for the public to read for at least a year, and that the board receive training on the district’s anti-discrimination policy and on federal Equal Employment Opportunity laws.  With the vote, it appears the board will do none of these things. Three of the seven board members, including Mason, are up for re-election this November. A new superintendent, Michael Giles, is scheduled to start July 1. Yesenia Robles is a reporter for Chalkbeat Colorado covering K-12 school districts and multilingual education. Contact Yesenia at yrobles@chalkbeat.org. The Paul Laurence Dunbar Library opened to students at The Oaks Academy middle school last week. The change likely leaves less time for district officials to meet with students and families at schools recommended for closure. Justin Schwartz credits his childhood experiences as to why he is committed to a CU Boulder that better represents Colorado. Proponents of a ban hope that a more consistent and proactive citywide policy could avert some of the daily conflicts over cellphones. The Detroit Free Press reported that the judge who had a Detroit student handcuffed for falling asleep in his courtroom during a field trip has been temporarily removed from his docket. He also has been ordered to undergo training. Block Club rounded up more than 30 parties, festivals, block parties, and other events across the city where you and your family can find free school supplies, backpacks, food and fun. Thousands of Coloradoans are getting a 3-minute rundown of the big education stories in and around Denver every weekday morning. Sign up for Chalkbeat Colorado's free newsletter to join them today. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. You may also receive occasional messages from sponsors. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. You may also receive occasional messages from sponsors. Become a Chalkbeat sponsor