In today’s digital era, as more and more businesses are taking to the Internet, it has become increasingly difficult to capture the market. According to a report published by Google, approximately 53% of shoppers say they always research online before making any purchases. Think about this - you want to get in touch with a professional SEO company for your business. The first thing you will do a Google search for the best professional SEO company near you and go through the top 5 results. It is obvious that most people will only check out the top 5 results which is why businesses strive to achieve one of these rankings. But, how do they do that? Well, it is possible through Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and digital marketing, which is why a lot of companies are investing in these services. But, with so many SEO companies available, how do you find the top SEO companies in India? Well, to help you narrow your search and get started on your SEO and digital marketing journey for better rankings on Search Engine Result Pages (SERPs), we have curated the following article. Our experts took it upon themselves to research the numerous SEO and digital marketing companies in India and their offered services. We have shortlisted the 7 top SEO companies in India and compiled them into this list below. So, what are you waiting for? Jump right into it and get started in your journey of finding the best SEO company in India for your business needs.  Undoubtedly one of the top SEO companies in India, WillShall Consulting provides customers with expert digital marketing services. The company is the top digital marketing company in India on Clutch and has a rating of 4.9 stars out of 5 to attest to it. With an impressive portfolio, WillShall Consulting employs experienced digital marketing and SEO professionals to ensure your business needs are met. WillShall Consulting is also known for its professional web development services that help businesses bring their ideas into reality. When combined with its expert SEO and digital marketing services, your website and web application will surely become unstoppable. Another great part about WillShall Consulting is their guaranteed transparency and efficiency. The company takes your business needs into account and performs an in-depth analysis of your existing application to formulate a marketing plan. WillShall Consulting also conducts extensive crawls on your website to find issues and formulate a technical SEO plan. So, with WillShall Consulting, you get access to the leading SEO company in India that formulates a 360-degree plan for your website. This will allow you to take a step closer to your success and achieve new heights without having to take any of the burden off your shoulders. You can check out their portfolio and client testimonials that are listed on their website along with their workplace profile links. WillShall Consulting also has a popular blog that lists several in-depth articles aimed at helping digital marketing beginners and businesses. Our experts checked a few of these top articles and according to them, the blogs were well-articulated and capable of explaining different aspects of SEO to beginners.Website: https://www.willshall.com Location: WillShall Consulting is a digital marketing company based in Punjab, India.   Services Offered: SEO (Medium & Large Businesses), Social Media Marketing, Pay Per Click Advertising, Content Marketing, SEO Friendly Website, E-Commerce Solution.Awards: 1. Clutch Award for Top Digital Marketing Company 2022 2. Clutch Award for Top Advertising & Marketing Company 2022 3. Google Certified Team If you are looking for a one-stop solution to all your marketing needs, Redefining Web is the right choice. One of the top SEO companies in India, Redefining Web focuses on developing comprehensive solutions that allow businesses to achieve their targets and goals. The best part about Redefining Web’s team is that they are motivated individuals who are driven by their passion for digital marketing and the web. Redefining Web’s team spends a lot of time on staying updated about the different updates and trends in the digital marketing industry. A prime example is Google’s Algorithm Updates which are quite frequent and play a major role in how websites are ranked. Redefining Web ensures that its employees are aware of these changes to help them formulate better and more effective plans. This is why it is undoubtedly the best SEO firm in India for businesses who want to stay ahead of their competition. With offices in New Delhi, Noida, Mumbai, Chicago, and London, PageTraffic is the best local SEO company in India and abroad. The company has maintained its reputation as one of the top SEO companies in India since 2002 and has won a lot of awards over the years. PageTraffic’s digital marketing services are highly reliable and quite effective which has helped them garner a wide clientele. The company has provided digital marketing services to reputed MNCs like HCL, Tata, Nestle, Wildcraft, Kent, and many others. With PageTraffic, you get access to an SEO agency in India that offers fully managed SEO services aimed at increasing your leads. You can also hire them for your eCommerce SEO needs to boost sales and Enterprise SEO to increase the overall traffic and revenue. Another great advantage is that PageTraffic also offers Web Design services that help you ensure that your website is fully functional and engages users for better conversion rates. Undoubtedly one of the top SEO companies in India, Ranking by SEO is the favorite digital marketing agency for a lot of brands and well-established companies. With their work featured in Entrepreneur, HuffPost, SemRush, and Search Engine Journal, it is quite evident that the company has done some excellent work in the field of SEO and digital marketing. Ranking by SEO employs a team of digital marketing professionals adept at offering multiple SEO services. Whether you require SEO packages to increase your leads or eCommerce SEO solutions to boost sales, Ranking by SEO is the solution. Some other SEO packages offered by Ranking by SEO include - on-page SEO, off-page SEO, technical SEO, organic SEO, local SEO, app store SEO, and white-label SEO services. The company has over 14 years of experience and has generated over 650 million sales for clients making it the best digital marketing agency in India. One of the top SEO companies in India, SEO Valley India has over 23 years of experience and employs the industry’s best. The company has a dedicated in-house team that handles client marketing needs and ensures that every business has access to the best digital marketing strategy. SEO Valley India also employs an R&D team that is dedicated to staying updated on Google Search Updates and changes in industry trends. This is why businesses always have access to the best possible strategies and can ensure that they are well ahead of their competitors. The company is highly focused and driven by results which helps ensure that you rank well for relevant search intents. With a strong forte in SEO, SEO Valley India helps you boost your ranking on search engine pages to ensure an increase in leads and higher sales. Another impressive detail is that the digital marketing team at SEO Valley India takes the time to understand the client’s business, vision, and goals to formulate a customized and effective marketing plan. The best digital marketing companion for businesses looking to earn six, seven, and even eight figures, ROI Minds is one of the top SEO companies in India. With a holistic approach towards SEO and digital marketing, ROI Minds has garnered a lot of reputation and has risen across the ranks to become the best digital marketing company in India. The company is quite transparent about the results it has helped its clients achieve and has posted clear visuals that attest to the same. ROI Minds employs some of the best digital marketing experts who are passionate about helping businesses grow and create a difference. The company offers clients with complete SEO packages and optimized marketing strategies that help drive ROIs. ROI Minds also offers expert social media management services and Google Ads (PPC) services that help clients create a better brand identity. If you’re looking for the top Shopify SEO agency in India, Conversion Perk is the perfect digital marketing agency for you. Specializing in eCommerce SEO, the company helps businesses build a better brand identity and increase their online sales. The company employs industry experts with diverse backgrounds to ensure that clients have access to a marketing plan that helps them achieve 360-degree growth. Conversion Perk has been in the industry for several years and has served startups, agencies, and MNCs. With monthly audit reports and in-depth tests, Conversion Perk ensures that their clients are always a step ahead of their competitors. The company also allows clients access to PPC managers and Google Ads experts to ensure they get the most out of their investment. Conversion Perk also has numerous articles listed on its website that allow clients to get a better idea about their services and understand the different SEO concepts. In today’s digital era, as more and more companies are taking their business online, it can be difficult to reach customers and boost sales. But, SEO and digital marketing can make the job a lot easier and help you get a huge ROI. We hope the above article helped you find the top SEO companies in India and gave you a headstart in your journey towards higher conversion rates and increased revenue. We recommend diving deeper into the services offered by these companies and checking out their portfolios. After all, you must carefully consider all the agencies available and choose one that best suits your needs. So, what are you waiting for? Get in touch with the team of experts of these digital companies and take a step closer to finding your marketing companion. Disclaimer: This article is a paid publication and does not have journalistic/editorial involvement of Hindustan Times. Hindustan Times does not endorse/subscribe to the content(s) of the article/advertisement and/or view(s) expressed herein. Hindustan Times shall not in any manner, be responsible and/or liable in any manner whatsoever for all that is stated in the article and/or also with regard to the view(s), opinion(s), announcement(s), declaration(s), affirmation(s) etc., stated/featured in the same. Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.