North Park in Seven Hills. (John Benson/cleveland.com) SEVEN HILLS, Ohio -- The New Year finds Seven Hills Mayor Anthony D. Biasiotta looking forward to different improvements expected to be completed around the community. “2023 is going to be an exciting year for Seven Hills because we’re going to see a number of major projects come to fruition,” Biasiotta said. “Mostly centered around our parks program, there’s also infrastructure improvements, roads and sewers.” As part of the city’s parks master plan, Seven Hills will be using its recently awarded County Council award of $250,000 in American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funding toward a new all-seasons pavilion scheduled to open next summer at North Park. The 2,260-square-foot facility, tentatively being called The Lodge at North Park and boasting a fireplace, garage doors, restrooms, a patio area and drinking/pet fountains, will be strategically located just outside of the new Beverly Nature Preserve on the eastern edge of North Park. Estimated at just over $1 million, the North Park pavilion project is part of the city’s phase 1B plan that also includes new fencing and a resurfaced and expanded parking lot. Construction is set to begin in the winter with the indoor/outdoor pavilion, fencing and a resurfaced parking lot that will be expanded in size. There’s also the major $1.7 million undertaking -- the largest investment of the parks master plan -- involving the demolition of Seven Hills’ old recreation center located at the end of Mapleview Drive in Calvin Park. Using a recently awarded $293,100 Cuyahoga Land Bank grant, the city plans on demolishing the 16,000-square-foot building, which hasn’t been used in roughly two decades, in early 2023. In addition to a new splash pad and ADA bathrooms at the old recreation center site, phase 2 also calls for a new fence at the communication tower, reconfigured parking lot, added picnic shelter, new playground, associated utility upgrades, additional walkways, site furnishings, landscaping and site lighting. Applewood Drive is part of the Seven Hills 2023 road program. (John Benson/cleveland.com) In terms of infrastructure, Seven Hills recently announced a 2023 road program with an engineer’s estimated cost of $2.2 million. There are also sewer improvements planned at Calvin Park and updates at its service garage. “We’re just starting the budget for 2023,” Biasiotta said. “We’ve been running at a surplus the last couple of years. We’ve taken that surplus and already invested it in our infrastructure so I’m hopeful that will be repeated in 2023.” Seven Hills service garage. (John Benson/cleveland.com) In terms of challenges facing Seven Hills next year, the mayor noted the city is currently in negotiations with all of its unions. Finally, the mayor in 2023 will be finishing the final year of his first term in office. “This is a good time to announce I will be running for reelection,” Biasiotta said. “I love being the mayor of Seven Hills. It’s a passion and I have every intention of running for reelection. “Some of the major projects will still be coming to completion, so I want to finish what we started and maybe plant a few new seeds as well.” Read more news from the Parma Sun Post here. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices