New entrants Church Boys United Club (CBUC) marked their top tier debut in style as they secured a 2-1 victory over Nepal Police Club while Nepal APF Club stunned Three Star Club 2-0 in the first round matches of the Martyrs Memorial ‘A’ Division League on Saturday. CBUC overcame an early deficit to stun five-time champions Nepal Police Club at the Chyasal Stadium. Forward Ravi Shankar Paswan gave an early 14th minute lead to the departmental team. Ashish Chaudhary restored parity for the CBUC in the dying moments of the three minutes stoppage time to go into the break 1-1. Cameroonian defender Franklin Kuete Talla scored the winner for CBUC in the 70th as the newcomers, captained by Nepali international Ananta Tamang, walked away with three points. In the other fixture of the day at Dasharath Stadium, forwards Mani Kumar Lama and Armand Beadoum hit the targets for Nepal APF Club as they stunned four-time champions Three Star Club. APF, studded with three foreign recruits, dominated the show from the onset and kept Three Star under pressure throughout the game. APF came close to scoring in the 16th minute through captain Nabin Lama but Three Star goalie Arun Blon reacted quickly to deny him. Five minutes later, Chad midfielder Beadoum headed captain Lama’s corner inches wide. In the 61st, goalie Blon rescued Three Star with a stunning save to deny Pradip Lama’s strike in Beadoum cross. APF’s pressure was rewarded in the 72nd through Mani Kumar Lama after Three Star goalie Blon fumbled his 35-yard freekick. Three Star could have levelled the scores but Aditya Shakya’s strike at the near post missed the target. Beadoum sealed the victory for the departmental team with the second goal three minutes from time. The midfielder’s strike from the edge of the D-area rattled the net, stunning goalie Blon. MMC, Himalayan Sherpa share spoils Record eight-time ‘A’ Division champions Manang Marshyangdi Club (MMC) shared points with Himalayan Sherpa Club with a 1-1 draw in the late fixture at the Dasharath Stadium. MMC took an early 14th minute lead through Roshan Rana Magar’s strike. His shot on goal entered the net following a deflection at Himalayan Sherpa defender Sanjeet Rai. But substitute Suresh Kumal, who came as a 59th minute replacement of Raj Kumar Kunwar, hit back the equaliser in the 85th to snatch a point from MMC. The outcome meant both MMC and Himalayan Sherpa walked away with one point each. There will be three matches on Sunday which will mark the conclusion of the first round action of the tournament. New Road Team will vie against Satdobato at Chyasal while Tribhuvan Army Club will take on Sankata Club in the early fixture at Dasharath Stadium and Machhindra FC will vie with Jawalakhel Youth Club in the late fixture.