Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to attend the much-anticipated BRICS Summit which will be held in South Africa's national capital Johannesburg from August 22-24, where he will float ideas to bolster trade relations with his counterparts and will endorse the use of local currencies.   



 This will be the first in-person BRICS Summit since 2019. The Summit will provide an opportunity to review the progress of the initiatives launched by the grouping and identify future areas of activity. According to the statement released by the Prime Minister's office, he will also participate in a special event "BRICS – Africa Outreach and BRICS Plus Dialogue” being organized after the BRICS Summit, which will include other countries invited by South Africa. During his visit, the Prime Minister will hold bilateral meetings with some of the leaders present in Johannesburg. Notably, the crucial meeting will be held nearly two weeks before Chinese President Xi Jinping is likely to visit New Delhi for the G20 Summit. However, neither of the sides confirmed whether the leaders of India and China will hold bilateral meetings in Johannesburg. The BRICS is a group of countries — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — and the word was coined by Jim O’Neill, an economist working with American company Goldman Sachs, to highlight the strong growth potential of these countries and how they could dominate the global economy by 2050. Russia, India and China (RIC) started holding a dialogue in the early 2000s, expressing their interest in a shift from a unipolar to a multipolar world with a more sympathetic global governance system. The acronym RIC changed to BRIC with the induction of Brazil in 2009 and to BRICS in 2010 with the inclusion of South Africa. As the BRICS Summit gathers on South African soil, a defining moment arises. It beckons the member nations to seize this juncture and mould an unprecedented global economic governance system—one that is all-encompassing, efficient, and inclusive. During the meeting, it is expected that the world leaders will emphasise limiting the dominance of the United States in both shaping the economy and the world order. As of now, America monopolises the world order, where it retains itself in the top position and then Europe-- overlooking China's position. However, amid the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and the COVID-19 pandemic, world leaders including the Chinese President have been actively advocating for their counterparts to end the hegemony of the West and the dominance of dollar in the international trade. "As a consortium of the world's five fastest emerging economies, the BRICS exudes profound economic optimism. It was touted to present an alternative global order that would act as a formidable response to the Washington consensus-driven Bretton Woods Institutions. The heft of the group springs from the fact that it comprises 3.2 billion people collectively, that is, 42 per cent of the total world population, "according to the statement released by the BRICS.      It noted that BRICS economies represent 27 per cent of the global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and over 18 per cent of global trade. These countries also register 50 per cent of the total global economic growth, making them the most significant countries propelling global growth. Meanwhile, while speaking to the news agency ANI about India's expectations, BRICS Sherpa Dammu Ravi said that several issues including the next expansion of BRICS on the agenda and the use of national currency for trading and economic activity amongst the BRICS member countries. "Earlier there was no belief that Brics would be extended. As the world is changing in the 21st century, all the developing countries together decided for the expansion of BRICS keeping in mind their agenda items and economic development," said the IFS officer. "But, for this, guidelines, as well as criteria, are needed." As per Ravi, India has been "constructive" in this work and we have taken the first initiative at the Sherpa level.  "Currently, we cannot say which country can be part of the expansion. It will be decided after a thorough discussion by all the leaders and the country that has to be brought into BRICS. Before the expansion, it would be kept in mind that the country can cooperate in the development and the expansion of BRICS." As far as the inclusion of national currency in trading is concerned, the officer said, it is not new and it has already happened. "There is an opportunity for trading in your national currency. All the BRICS countries together will take this decision and discuss that they can trade in their national currency in these BRICS countries." From India's point of view, Ravi said, "Development dimension and issues that are so crucial and critical for the Global South, will be part of the discussion in the BRICS Summit, scheduled on August 22-24. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visionary leadership has always been emphasising that the solutions and the challenges for the global south have to be collectively worked together." He further said this is the first time since the pandemic that leaders are meeting in person. "So, in that sense, this assumes enormous importance and significance so that all the leaders are meeting in person." Noting that it's the third time when Prime Minister Modi is visiting South Africa and that this visit also marks the 30th anniversary of the diplomatic relationship between India and South Africa, the officer said there are lots of ideas Prime Minister Modi's are being discussed in the BRICS meetings." ﻿Also Read: Putin downplays skipping BRICS Summit in S Africa amid ICC warrant controversy: 'My presence is more...' Top News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea Related Explainers News Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India? Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida? What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained  Latest News Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea  Kolkata rape-murder case: CBI appoints top officer ASP Seema Pahuja to probe matter, who is she?   Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same  Fadnavis takes swipe at Jarange: 'Will quit politics if CM says I am hindering Maratha quota process  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Coffee Par Kurukshetra: What is the terrifying truth of Kolkata incident?    Aaj Ki Baat: Accused to undergo polygraph test. Will truth surface?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: What happened that night... Has the CBI uncovered every detail?    Muqabla: What evidence did CBI find... Who is now feeling scared?    Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed    Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  