Mumbai: Viacom18 Sports has announced its roster of regional commentary panellists for the upcoming FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022. The most prestigious football competition in the world will be brought to viewers in India in five languages: English, Hindi, Tamil, Malayalam, and Bengali on JioCinema, which is now available across Jio, Vi, Airtel, and BSNL subscribers. From 20 November to 18 December, all viewers will be able to watch the competition on the pay-TV channels Sports18, 1 SD and HD. Dempo SC’s CEO and former coach Pradhyum Reddy and Brazilian footballer Jose Ramirez Barreto will form the English expert panel. India footballer Robin Singh, current Indian women’s national team goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan, Kerala Blasters FC assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed, and former player Karan Sawhney will form the Hindi language panel. "The panel lends to our commitment to present the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 like never before with regional customisation and fresh perspectives from seasoned as well as first-time experts across five languages on JioCinema, which is now available to download across Jio, Vi, Airtel, and BSNL subscribers. We are pulling out all the stops to offer the best experience to viewers across geographies so they can enjoy the FIFA World Cup the way it should be," said Viacom18 Sports head of content Siddharth Sharma. Former Indian men’s national team goalkeeper Subrata Paul and former players Mehtab Hossain, Alvito D’Cunha, Shilton Paul, and Manas Bhattacharya will serve the viewers in Bengali. Tamil viewers will be able to enjoy the voices of former India player and notable commentator Raman Vijayan along with Nallapan Mohanraj, Dharmaraj Ravanan, and Vijayakarthikeyan. Coverage in Malayalam will be headlined by former and current national team players Jo Paul Ancheri, CK Vineeth, Mohammed Rafi, Rino Anto, Sushanth Mathew, and Feroz Sherif. The panel will be part of Visa Match Center Live, which will give fans the ultimate experience of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, including in-depth analysis, pitch-side coverage, and locker room access from the convenience of their homes. The Visa Match Center Live will be a fully immersive studio show customised in all five languages on JioCinema, with legends like Wayne Rooney, Luis Figo, Robert Pires, Sol Campbell, and Gilberto Silva joining for the English coverage. switch switch   Subscribe To Our Newsletter    2023 @ Copyright Indiantelevision Dot Com Pvt Ltd. All rights reserved.