Fear is spreading among Shopify employees that the Canadian e-commerce company is planning to lay off more workers within the next few days.  Internally, rumors have been swirling about layoffs for the last several weeks. Employees said that the company has canceled a number of upcoming "bursts," which is Shopify's name for team off-sites, and other in-person events.  The results of the company's latest performance reviews are due early next month, according to several employees. Company leadership told workers in the fall that it planned to change how it evaluated employees' performance. Employees now fear that fewer people will be graded positively on those evaluations, which Shopify calls "impact reviews."  Shopify did not respond to a request for comment.  Some employees on teams including talent acquisition have also quietly been laid off in recent weeks. In March, Shopify rescinded full-time job offers for a number of former interns who were set to join the company this summer and fall.  Shopify has frequently spoken about its goal to build a more efficient and focused organization amid economic uncertainty this year. An internal document that was sent to the company's talent org earlier in 2023 said Shopify would hire fewer people this year. It said it would employ targeted, "unorthodox" strategies to find the "very best people in their respective craft" as it prioritized efficiency. 
                                Related stories
                               In March, Shopify announced a new framework that would classify employees as either managers or "crafters," with the goal of incentivizing more employees to be individual contributors. The company said it expected there would be fewer managers overall under this framework.  Shopify is set to report second-quarter earnings on May 4.  Shopify laid off 10% of its workforce — or roughly 1,000 people — last July. At the time, it said the layoffs were necessary because the company had miscalculated the long-term impact that the pandemic would have on the e-commerce sector. The company also quietly laid off several dozen employees before and after the mass layoff was announced.  If you're a Shopify employee with a story to share, contact this reporter at mstone@businessinsider.com or on the encrypted messaging app Signal at (646) 889-2143 using a nonwork phone. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to