Amazon's biggest shopping event of the year is almost over with just a few hours left to shop steep discounts across every category. There are still plenty of steep Amazon Prime Day discounts to take advantage of, from robot vacuums and 4K TVs to coffee makers and luxury skin care products — all at some of the lowest prices ever. To help you make the most of Prime Day 2023 before midnight tonight, we've pulled together the 75 best deals that are actually worth shopping. Below, you'll find the best Prime Day deals to shop right now. We’ve organized them into categories, with standout deals at the top of each section. Whether you've had your eye on devices from Apple and Samsung, home essentials from Keurig and Dyson, or a pair of celeb-loved Alo Yoga leggings, don't wait too long to hit 'add to cart'. Happy shopping!  Save now on the Beats Studio3 Wireless over-ear headphones that deliver premium sound while blocking external noise with active noise canceling. $350 $200 In this floor fan, Dyson's most advanced filtration system automatically senses, captures, and traps pollutants for cleaner air. Only Dyson purifiers have Air Multiplier technology that draws even distant pollutants into the machine, projecting purified air throughout the large room. $750 $657 The Roomba j7 robot vacuum uses iRobot Genius Technology and PrecisionVision Navigation to recognize and avoid common objects in its way like cords, pet waste, socks and shoes.  $470 $373 Save on Crest's best and fastest whitening technology at home. When used as directed, Crest Whitestrips with Light whitens dramatically better than strips alone with complete results that last up to 36 months.  $70 $45 A celeb go-to, these Peter Thomas Roth eye patches use the power of vitamin C to help fight dark circles by brightening around the eye and improving signs of aging. $65 $52 Named one of Oprah's Favorite Things, the Theragun Mini 2.0 massages muscles with deep penetration technology. The percussion therapy gets deep into your tissue to relax muscles.  $199 $169 Energize your daily run with these men's Adidas shoes built with an almost sock-like Adidas PRIMEKNIT+ upper and responsive BOOST cushioning for supportive comfort.  $190 Starting at $86 This portable air conditioner is as powerful as it is quiet. At the coolest setting, an adjustable fan quickly cools the air to 61°F.   $508 $267 Save $400 on the 65-inch and 75-inch Samsung Frame TV. Just switch on Art Mode to enjoy your personal art exhibit when you’re not watching your smart TV. $1,998 $1,598 Kate Somerville's No. 1 best-selling ExfoliKate — loved by Meghan Markle — naturally exfoliates without over-drying, leaving skin fresh, soft and conditioned. Use this daily foaming cleanser to reveal smoother skin while gently cleansing away oil, makeup and surface impurities. $44 $31 Amazon is one of our favorite places to find deals on everything we need fast. We've sorted through the thousands of daily deals across the site to find the marked down must-haves that we're adding to cart before they return to full price. Not an Amazon Prime member? Right now, in honor of their biggest sale of the year, Amazon is offering new Amazon Prime subscribers a 30-day free trial. That means new members can take advantage of all the perks and deals of a Prime membership risk-free for 30 days: including the deep discounts of Prime Day 2023. Try Prime for Free Keep reading to check out the absolute best Amazon Prime Day 2023 deals across all categories before the sale event ends at 11:59 p.m. PT tonight. This week, Amazon released new deals on smart devices including Apple iPads, AirPods, Bluetooth speakers and more. Getting that post-worthy solo shot is easy with a phone that stands on its own. Put Galaxy Z Flip4 — available in four colors — in Flex Mode and capture hands-free selfies, record your epic dance moves and never worry about your makeshift tripod falling over. $1,000 $800 This is one fun iPad, and it comes in blue, pink, yellow and silver. It makes multitasking with various apps, note-taking, gaming and getting work done on the go a breeze with its compact size and powerful processor.  $349 $300 Get luminous picture and high contrast, even in well-lit rooms. The LG OLED evo C3 blends into the background with a virtually invisible bezel for a seamless look. When you're finished watching, display paintings, photos and other content to blend the TV into your space. $1,597 $1,397 For those who love the sound quality of AirPods but prefer the fit of over-the-ear headphones, the AirPods Max are a good choice. Activate the Active Noise Cancellation mode to reduce ambient noise while enjoying the music, or activate Transparency mode to hear surroundings. They're an excellent companion for school or elsewhere.  $550 $429 With a 10.1" HD screen that’s designed to move with you, the Amazon Echo Show 10 can be used for video calls, watching your favorite shows and following along to the steps of a new recipe. $250 $160 The audiophiles will want the Echo Pop, which is Amazon's first full-sound and compact speaker. Along with playing bold sounds and a fun color, you'll get all the perks of an Alexa-enabled device.  $40 $18 The Kindle Paperwhite is still one of the best ways to read an ebook. Plus, when on vacation it will make traveling with more than one book super convenient. $273 $253 Apple AirPods Pro earbuds bring better battery life and sound quality for pumping out a workout with your favorite tunes. $249 $199 Powered by a huge grid of Samsung’s ultra-precise Quantum Mini LEDs, brilliant details shine even in daylight. The TV optimizes content to spectacular 4K resolution and has realistic 3D sound that puts you in the middle of the action.  $1,598 $1,488 Phones carry a plethora of germs. Sanitize your phone while charging it with this nifty box.  $80 $60 With Coupon The JBL Flip 5 is a waterproof, bass-boosting powerhouse. Though it's small enough to hold in your hand, this portable Bluetooth speaker is durable and has 12 hours of playtime on just one charge. $130 $90 Save on Apple's newest MacBook supercharged by the Apple M2 Pro chip. The 2023 Apple MacBook Pro delivers exceptional performance whether it’s plugged in or not, and has up to 18 hours of battery life. $1,999 $1,700 Whether you are cooking more at home or tidying up around the house, snag great deals on everything you need to upgrade your space. There are hundreds of Amazon deals on home appliances, including cookware, robot vacuums, Nespresso coffee makers and more. The Keurig K-Mini is the one for you if you're the sole coffee lover in your household. Get a fresh brew with fresh water each time your cup needs a refill. $100 $60 This stainless steel cookware set includes two saucepans, a sauté pan, a stockpot, two skillets and a steamer insert with lids.  $287 $230 Elevate your cookware with Carote's pots and pans set, which includes two frying pans, a saucepan with lid and steamer, a casserole pot and a sauté pan.  $150 $75 With Coupon Save 30% on Cuisinart's small but mighty portable grill. Featuring a dual venting system, it gives you the ultimate charcoal management and temperature control. $40 $28 Have the ability to create barista grade brewed single serve coffee or espresso cups at the touch of a single button. $269 $207 Fry with up to 75% less fat than traditional frying methods in this dishwasher-safe Ninja air fryer.  $130 $90 If you've always wanted a Keurig coffee maker, now is the perfect time to take advantage of Amazon's deals and purchase one for your home. The easy-to-use coffee maker will save you time in the morning and help you start your day off on the right foot.  $150 $100 This Le Creuset Round Dutch Oven is designed with a light-colored smooth interior, making it easy to monitor the cooking progress while busy in the kitchen.  $360 $240 Slice and dice like a pro with even cuts every time by using this helpful veggie chopper that's become a social media sensation. The four different plates allow you to spiralize and chop in various sizes. $50 $25 An indoor grill that'll air fry, roast, bake, and dehydrate belongs on the kitchen gear shopping list.  $199 $139 Consider Amazon your one-stop shop for all things beauty, including skincare tools, sunscreen, makeup and hair tools. Your delicate under-eye skin needs special attention, and this silky cream keeps the area hydrated and supple with Japanese white peony.  $67 Foreo's Bear is the world's first FDA-cleared microcurrent device with an anti-shock system. According to the brand, it can help visibly improve signs of aging by gently energizing and firming the 69 muscles in your face and neck. $329 $230 Formulated with blue hyaluronic acid, mint leaf extract, forest yeast extract and fermented deep sea algae, this moisturizing gel is bursting with up to 48 hours of soothing hydration. $40 Help give your lips the perfect pout with this nourishing, fruit-flavored overnight mask that has gone viral. $24 $17 Oprah Winfrey and Drew Barrymore have both praised Good Genes, an anti-aging serum. Formulated to help smooth and refresh skin, the facial treatment is enriched with lactic acid, which performs a gentle yet exfoliating action.  $85 $55 With over 2,900 5-star reviews, this soft skincare device features silicone touchpoints that are said to lift away dirt and oil with a 1-minute cleansing routine while a firming facial massage leaves skin smoother. $219 $153 Loaded with ultra-hydrating hyaluronic acid, vitamin E and jojoba oil, this anti-aging serum used by Khloe Kardashian helps protect your skin. $49 $39 Enhance your natural glow with one of four shades of this moisturizing and affordable highlighter beloved by Martha Stewart.  $16 $11 De-puff, moisturize and energize your skin in as little as five minutes per day, three times per week. Beloved by Nicole Kidman, Sydney Sweeney and Pedro Pascal, this wand is portable and rechargeable for easy travel. $121 $47 COSRX Hyaluronic Acid Intensive Cream is designed to deliver moisture thanks to a healthy dose of hyaluronic acid. Locking the moisture into your skin, the thirst-quenching cream provides long-lasting nourishment and hydration.  $24 $13 Give yourself a salon-quality blowout at home without the fuss by sectioning off damp hair and wrapping it around the brush for fast drying, curling and volume.  $70 $40 Affordable and reliable, CeraVe is one of today's premier dermatologist-approved brands. Its mineral sunscreen contains CeraVe's signature ceramides to restore and maintain the skin's barrier. $15 $11 Amazon has tons of summer-ready fashion with steep discounts on sneakers, designer handbags and dresses. TikTok and Hailey Bieber have a thing for Levi's denim shorts, and now you can score a pair for 40% off. $60 $30 Ray-Ban's iconic Clubmaster Square Sunglasses offer top-quality comfort without sacrificing style. $195 $137 Lightweight and soft, this bra top will keep you comfortable even through the sweatiest workouts. $74 $55 Made with a clean, sleek design and ultra lightweight Vapor fabric, this smooth, second-skin favorite is destined for heavy rotation – in and out of yoga. You can choose from a variety of camouflage print colors.  $128 $105 Level up your training with this comfy athletic sneaker. $70 $46 Make a statement with this silky lightweight ASTR The Label Gaia Dress. Available in a variety of colors, this slip dress is a must-have.  $98 $49 Step into these shoes with super soft Cloudfoam cushioning for crisp, clean style and comfort. $75 $57 Tuck this sleeveless bodysuit into a pair of denim jeans or shorts for an effortless outfit. $36 $27 Runners will love the comfort and support provided by Adidas Ultraboost, available in 41 different colorways. $190 $86 Amazon is overflowing with furniture deals up to 65% off. With discounts this steep, you can give every room of your home the refresh it deserves. Gently rounded backs paired with super sturdy metal sled bases give this set of 2 rattan rope club chairs with plush seat cushions a trendy, boho look that blends into almost any decor.  $349 $212 The Storkcraft Premium Hoop Glider and Ottoman has comfy padded cushions and a storage pocket on the side. It rocks very smoothly so you and your baby can unwind in total comfort. $230 $160 Simple and yet elegant, this rustic dining table is the perfect piece to complete your backyard, patio, and garden. It can be expanded, allowing you to resize depending on your crowd.   $337 $315 This discounted set includes two modern armchairs for lounging as well as a round accent table with a tempered glass top to place decor, snacks and beverages on. $200 $170 Though this gold-finished glass coffee table may look delicate, it's built with metal for lasting durability and its glass top is safety-tempered. $175 $140 Enjoy this patio chair for years thanks to its durable, water-resistant wicker that's tightly woven over a powder-coated steel frame. $375 $330 This collection of outdoor furniture brings resort-style relaxation to any home. The ultra-chic and comfortable outdoor set includes a loveseat, two side chairs and a table.  $360 $256 Whether you have summer travel on the horizon or simply need an excuse to upgrade your current suitcase situation, there are so many Prime Day deals from top travel brands such as Samsonite, American Tourister and Travelpro. This carry-on features a safe lock to help make sure that all of your belongings arrive safely at your destination. $280 $192 This highly functional and expandable 21-inch carry-on bag is perfect for packing all of your clothes for several vacation outfits.  $150 $120 Samsonite Omni PC luggage looks just as good on the 100th trip as it does on the first. Its scratch-resistant textures and polycarbonate construction make it lightweight yet durable.  $170 $119 This 20-inch spinner is available in so many fun colors, including this trendy champagne. $140 $69 Travelpro's softsided suitcase is surprisingly roomy with plenty of pockets and compression straps. $170 $127 With Coupon With over 6,000 positive reviews, this lightweight carry-on will ease your overpacking worries. $120 $114 Our favorite mattress brands are slashing their prices on Amazon. Whether you’re looking for a firm mattress to help with back pain or a plush memory foam option that makes you feel like you’re sleeping on a cloud every night, Amazon has mattress deals on Nectar, Casper, DreamCloud, Serta and more. Sleep easy breezy on an airy, heat-wicking quilted cover with cooling technology. Gel memory foam cradles your body and relieves pressure, while the dynamic response transition layer provides tailored support. $899 $649 For anyone who suffers from back, hip or shoulder pain, this mattress has high-airflow premium foam comfort layers and active-pocket springs to provide advanced support for you. This mattress also has a combination of foam and springs to target and relieve any pressure on your body. $1,999 $1,599 This Serta cooling mattress is now marked down to its lowest price ever. Serta's exclusive HexCloud Gel Memory Foam boasts unique geometric cut outs to deliver cool, contouring pressure relief for oh-so-relaxing sleep. $999 $690 With two layers of premium foam creating a balance of softness and support, the Element is the perfect introduction to Casper quality at a comfortable price. A top layer of AirScape perforated foam helps keep you cool at night by promoting breathability.  $595 $417 Get 20% off Casper's Original Hybrid Mattress that combines premium, breathable foam with added springs for lift, support and airflow. The soft knit cover is designed with added stretch so you can experience all the comfort your mattress has to offer. $1,495 $918 Save more than 60% on Zinus' firmest mattress ideal for stomach sleepers. With over 6,800 five-star reviews, customers love this mattress for its support and great motion isolation. $700 $274 Discover the perfect balance of breathable, contouring support and softness with DreamCloud's innovative gel memory foam, plush cashmere blend tight top and innerspring coil system. $1,099 $949 For overnight guests, air mattresses are also steeply discounted at Amazon. Designed for in-home and camping use, the highly rated Dream Series mattress reaches full inflation in under 4 minutes and will stay inflated for days. $180 $150 Experience a deep and refreshing sleep with the Green Tea mattress. The soft, breathable knitted cover with natural green tea in every layer delivers a comfortable and supportive sleep. $525 $249 Amazon's not the only place to find bargains this week: Walmart, Best Buy, and Wayfair are all hosting competing Prime Day sales events, too. Be sure to check out even more great Prime Day deals to shop, handpicked by our friends at CBS News Essentials and CBS Sports Essentials. RELATED CONTENT: Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals