A WOMAN who bought a lottery ticket after a spooky inner voice told her to has landed up winning £820,000. Wendy Hester - from North Carolina - said she was grocery shopping when she was stopped in her tracks by the voice. "Something just told me to buy it, so I did. It was just meant to be, I think,” she said. So she bought a £8 VIP Platinum instant ticket and took it home, but was stunned when she scratched it off and saw the life-changing win. Wendy said: "I just kept looking at it thinking, 'This can't be right'. But it was right.'" The lucky woman then immediately called her husband to share the good news. She said: "I called him and told him, 'I just won a million dollars.' This is a dream. We can finally get our home." Wendy revealed that aside from buying a new house she will also pay off her car loan adding: "This is a godsend. We really needed this." She collected her prize at North Carolina Education Lottery headquarters in the city of Raleigh. She reportedly chose a one-time payment after being offered the prize as an annuity of £41,324 over 20 years and a lump sum of £493,896. She then took home a total of £353,331 following state and federal taxes. It comes after lottery winner who bought a ticket in the spur of the moment, won £41,000 after babysitting her grandson. Joyce Edwards been a regular lottery player for over ten years and was “dumbfounded” when she realised she had won. The 57-year-old said: “I just finished babysitting my grandson and stopped to purchase this ticket on my way home.” This huge win comes after a lucky lady from Maryland won £200,000 while running an errand in her local shop. The mum-of-five, Isabel Sandoval, was on a booze run for husband before purchasing three Lady Luck scratch cards on a whim. The warehouse worker, 35, ended up bagging much more than she bargained for when she scooped the top prize of £200,000 on the lotto ticket. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.