 Christmas day in the forest of dean village of Lydbrook will begin this year as it has for the past 99 – with the sound of festive tunes played by the Lydbrook Band. “Our village is nestled in a valley by the River Wye, and we play carols as we walk down the high street – the longest in England,” explains Robert Morgan, 75. He has played cornet in the brass band since he was 10, and became cornet champion of Great Britain aged 17. Robert says the music helps to unite the community at a time of year when some struggle with loneliness. “People come out of their homes to listen as we pass by, but there are others who live by themselves in the surrounding hills, and the music travels up to them too. We know it brings pleasure to those spending Christmas alone.”  Robert – who has played The Last Post on the bugle at every Remembrance ceremony at Lydbrook Cenotaph since 1961 – was made an MBE 15 years ago for his services to brass band music. He describes the 27-strong ensemble as “like a second family”. He even has the band to thank for his marriage to Barbara, 67, who’s played tenor horn with it for 53 years. The band is very much a family tradition. “I’ve had family in the Lydbrook Band since it started in 1923,” reveals Robert. “My father was a trumpet player and my grandparents on both sides of the family were all in village bands.” The younger generations of Morgans have also enjoyed making music. All of Robert’s children have been involved in the Lydbrook Band at sometime while growing up, and his grandchildren have too.  For several years the band has received National Lottery funding, allowing it to share its music with a larger audience. “Every few years we put on a Proms in the Park-style event,” explains Robert. “We bring lots of musicians together and provide seven hours of live music for just £10 a ticket. We couldn’t possibly do it without National Lottery funding.” It’s thanks to National Lottery players that thousands of good causes across the UK like the Lydbrook Band are able to bring people together, not just at Christmas but all through the year.  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Sorry, we are unable to accept comments about this article at the moment. However, you will find some great articles which you can comment on right now in our Comment section. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?