The 2023 Ram 1500 is one of the best pickup trucks on the market, but it’s competing against some high-quality competition from trucks like the Ford F-150. Trucks are very popular in America right now, so automakers have a lot of incentives to make their trucks stand out compared to their rivals.  As far as trim options and configurations go, here’s a look at the only 2023 pickup truck that has over 50 available trims right now. U.S. News counted up all the different trims and configurations that automakers offer on their trucks, and the Ram 1500 came out on top.  Not only did the Ram truck have the most available configurations with 54, but it was also the only truck to have more than 50. It wasn’t particularly close either, as the runner-up was the Toyota Tundra which had a total of 42 different configurations.  That being said, while the Tundra is a full-size truck, it’s not on the same level of popularity as the other options in the segment. The Ram 1500’s main competitors in the segment are the F-150 and the Chevy Silverado.  Both trucks also have a relatively similar number of available trims/configuartions, as the F-150 has 39, and the Silverado has 38. The main reason why these trucks have so many options is because the site is counting every possible configuration as its own option. As a result, many of the truck’s trim options aren’t too different from one another. For example, a truck that has four-wheel drive instead of rear-wheel drive counts as a unique configuration. Ram currently has two cab options and two bed options, and it does offer trucks with four-wheel drive and rear-wheel drive. There’s the crew cab option and the extended cab option, and the automaker offers a 5 foot 7 inch bed as well as a 6 foot 4 inch bed. Additionally, the automaker offers a large number of trim levels. There are currently about a dozen trim levels. The standard trim level is the Tradesman, starting at about $30,000.  One of Ram’s middle-of-the-pack trim levels is the Big Horn, which starts at about $43,000. The full-size truck’s most expensive trim level is the TRX, starting at just over $84,000. While some car shoppers may find it challenging to sort through all of the trim options that automakers provide for their trucks, truck lovers typically expect their trucks to have a lot of options. Those options, especially in terms of a truck’s cab and bed, allow drivers to customize their truck’s capabilities to their liking.  Some drivers want a work truck, and that means they’ll want a truck with minimal passenger comfort and the maximum capabilities in terms of the truck bed.  Other drivers, however, want their truck to be a commuter vehicle. This typically means a shorter bed but a larger cab, which also results in a more comfortable cabin.  There’s a similar logic for a truck’s trim levels. Many automakers offer premium trims that have a lot of luxury features. This may be attractive to some drivers, but not others. As such, by having more trims available, automakers can attract every kind of truck shopper. 

			The 2023 Ram 1500 Is the Only Truck That Beats Electric Rivals		
 J.L. Seto began contributing content to MotorBiscuit in 2019. She’s always been fascinated with the technology behind cars. When she’s not writing about electric vehicles or the best cars to buy, she enjoys watching movies.