Share Technology Development Board (TDB), a statutory body of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, is now inviting applications for the National Technology Awards, 2023, under the five categories of Main, MSME, Startup, Translational Research and Technology Business Incubator. These awards are conferred to various industries for successfully commercialising innovative indigenous technology.  The awards will be given on May 11, 2023, celebrated as the National Technology Day in India, to honour the achievements of scientists, researchers, engineers and all others involved in the field of science and technology. It was on May 11, 1998, that India successfully conducted a Nuclear Missile Test at the Indian Army’s Pokhran range. Apply here.  The last date to apply is January 15, 2023 by 5:00 PM.  This award will be given to an industrial concern which has successfully developed and commercialised an indigenous technology on or after April 2017. If the technology developer/provider and technology company are two different organisations, each one would be eligible for an award of ₹25 Lakh and a trophy. Cash Award of ₹25 Lakh Number of awards: One This award will be given to MSMEs which have successfully commercialised a product based on indigenous technology on or after April 2017. Cash Awards of ₹15 Lakh Number of awards: Three (including one reserved for Women-led MSME) This award will be given to a technology startup for promising new technology with potential for commercialisation. Cash Awards of ₹15 Lakh Number of awards: Five (including one reserved for Women-led Startup) This award is given for the outstanding contribution of Scientists in commercialising innovative indigenous technologies. Cash Awards of ₹5 Lakh Number of awards: Two (one is to be reserved for Translational Research by Women Scientists) To recognise and reward outstanding contributions in techno-entrepreneurship development by way of promoting innovative technology-driven, knowledge-intensive, startup enterprises in different technological areas. Cash Awards of ₹5 Lakh Number of awards: One 📣 Want to advertise in AIM? Book here Chief minister Siddaramaiah announced Project Cheetah, another Foxconn facility for the manufacture and assembly of EV components, adding to the list of Karnataka Foxconn projects after Project Elephant. Discover how Cypher 2024 expands to the USA, bridging AI innovation gaps and tackling the challenges of enterprise AI adoption Email:info@aimmediahouse.com Our Offices AIM India#280, 2nd floor, 5th Main, 15 A cross, Sector 6, HSR layout Bengaluru, Karnataka 560102 AIM Americas99 South Almaden Blvd. Suite 600 San Jose California 95113 USA © Analytics India Magazine Pvt Ltd & AIM Media House LLC 2024