Explore the world of composites through JEC Group’s multi-channel knowledge-sharing resources: JEC Composites Magazine & e-newsletters, in-depth analysis & market reports, technical & business conferences, video & social media platforms      Connect with the global composites community with JEC Group’s portfolio of international events & networking solutions, on and off-line: the world’s premier composites exhibition JEC World, specialist region & market-focused Forums & Summits, & one-to-one Business Meetings program    Discover the composites technologies, people and organisations shaping the future through JEC Group’s showcases of creativity & collaboration: the renowned JEC Composites Innovation Awards, Startup Booster challenge, & industry-themed Innovation Planets.      Advanced Composite Materials Aramid Fibre Reinforced Polymer Bladder Inflation Moulding 2K Compression Explore the world of composites through JEC Group’s multi-channel knowledge-sharing resources: JEC Composites Magazine & e-newsletters, in-depth analysis & market reports, technical & business conferences, video & social media platforms      Connect with the global composites community with JEC Group’s portfolio of international events & networking solutions, on and off-line: the world’s premier composites exhibition JEC World, specialist region & market-focused Forums & Summits, & one-to-one Business Meetings program    Discover the composites technologies, people and organisations shaping the future through JEC Group’s showcases of creativity & collaboration: the renowned JEC Composites Innovation Awards, Startup Booster challenge, & industry-themed Innovation Planets.      Advanced Composite Materials Aramid Fibre Reinforced Polymer Bladder Inflation Moulding 2K Compression Siemens Digital Industries Software announced that the latest release of Simcenter™ software for mechanical simulation helps streamline electrification engineering projects, assists new aircraft meet margins of safety, simplifies durability testing across many industries and much more.
 Siemens Digital Industries Software announced that the latest release of Simcenter™ software for mechanical simulation helps streamline electrification engineering projects, assists new aircraft meet margins of safety, simplifies durability testing across many industries and much more. 5 minutes, 10 secondes “Addressing complex engineering challenges such as developing products that are more powerful, yet greener, lighter yet stronger requires a fully-integrated CAE solution,” said Jean-Claude Ercolanelli, Senior Vice President, Simulation and Test Solutions, Siemens Digital Industries Software. “The latest release of Simcenter offers a host of powerful enhancements to help engineers meet those challenges efficiently and significantly faster than ever before, whether that is getting tire contact simulations solved 45% quicker or reducing airframe structure preprocessing by up to 80%. The highlights in this release are applicable across all industries and workflows and bring new functionality to the Simcenter family of products. Highlights include: Electrification is a major trend across the Automotive industry and development of new Electric Vehicle (EV) powertrains tend to be broken into silos for e-motor design, transmission analysis, NVH and acoustics. Simcenter mechanical simulation tools can help automakers break these silos by helping critical load, design and model information to flow easily between each of these disciplines for EV powertrain development. Beyond EV development, additional new capabilities in this release improve simulation of other automotive applications from NVH, to tires, to windshield wiper performance. Highlights includes: For the Aerospace industry, new capabilities reduce the number of models needed to simulate the behavior of thin aircraft skins and perform margin of safety calculations more quickly than ever before. In addition to the new improved airframe applications, Simcenter can help engineers better understand rocket launch dynamics by simulating the liquid sloshing in fuel tanks. Highlights include: For the Industrial Machinery industry, machine uptime is the prime driver, but machine manufacturers often lack the time or resources to physically test their machines to their limits. Here, Simcenter can help with new capabilities to help durability prediction without the need for specialist knowledge. Highlights include:  Announcement Business Aerospace Other Composites End-use areas You can create a free technological watch and keep you updated about all these subjects. Tech Watch updated ! Read this next Stay up to date with the latest composites news directly in your inbox. Subscribe for free to the JEC Composites International and French e-Letters. Copyright © 1996-2024 JEC. All rights reserved. Subscribe to the JEC Composites e-Letters