You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: May 3, 2024, 12:44pm Have a question for Christiana Jolaoso or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Christiana Jolaoso, Kelly Main and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Commonly referred to as PIA, Private Internet Access VPN stands out as our top-rated VPN service. It has many available servers—35,000 and counting—and comes available at competitive pricing, despite its enhanced features. Private Internet Access VPN packs valuable features, including a dedicated internet protocol (IP) address, split tunneling, VPN router and a 100% strict no-logs policy. This Private Internet Access review will help you discover how the above features and more will block out unwanted content and grant you access to restricted content that’s caught your favor. Private Internet Access VPN bypasses restrictions imposed by governments and streaming services to grant you access to any content you want. It uses strong encryption ciphers, 128-bit and 256-bit AES and powerful protocols, including OpenVPN and WireGuard, to deliver the flexibility and protection you need. Also, the VPN’s high-speed NextGen server network makes browsing and streaming easy with its fast connection and unlimited bandwidth. Private Internet Access VPN runs on a 100% no-usage-logs policy that prevents the company from recording your data. Features such as kill switch protection and ad blocking also block malicious websites and prevent data exposure. You can connect unlimited devices to the service. And if you need any help, Private Internet Access VPN’s support team is available 24/7. Your digital identity is your information profile compiled from your online purchases and accounts, tagged photographs and search history, which can be traced to you and used for fraudulent activities. PIA will help you to secure your digital identity by adding an extra layer of protection through internet traffic encryption, hidden locations and obscured browsing activities. PIA encrypts your internet service provider’s (ISP’s) internet connection and acts as a safety buffer between your device and any established connection with websites or applications. All network administrators, ISPs or other parties see when you’re downloading or uploading over the internet is your chosen PIA server. That way, you can easily bypass internet blocks to browse across borders and enjoy extra privacy. Private Internet Access VPN offers a list of features, such as VPN encryption, advanced split tunneling, built-in ad blocking, a VPN router and a kill switch. Learn more about Private Internet Access VPN features below. When you connect to Private Internet Access VPN, your connection gets a unique encryption key accessible only to your device and the connected PIA server. Your data becomes unreadable to ISPs, network administrators and government censors that don’t have the key. They can only see that you’re connected to a VPN server; they won’t see when you connect or how long you stay connected. The PIA server will assign you an IP address that obscures your location and creates a secure tunnel for transferring your internet data. PIA uses the most secure encryption algorithms that governments, intelligence agencies and militaries use. You can further optimize PIA’s strong 128-bit or 256-bit AES encryption settings to suit your personal needs. PIA allows you to access the internet without restriction. You can browse your favorite websites or applications regardless of censorship or geographic limitations. Private Internet Access VPN’s wide variety of VPN servers across the globe allows you to choose and connect to a server from a location without restricted access. That way, you can bypass network blocks imposed by governments or ISPs, even when browsing the internet over restricted networks such as work, school and public Wi-Fi. Using Private Internet Access VPN means you can tunnel your internet traffic through secure VPN servers. Some apps and websites are not VPN-friendly, so PIA split-tunneling settings allow you to choose the applications and websites or IP addresses that should bypass the VPN tunnel. Your device will access the internet from your original IP address when on the chosen apps or sites—without disconnecting the VPN from other applications, websites or IP addresses. So you’re directing traffic through and around the VPN simultaneously. No matter how reliable a VPN service is, there’s a chance you’ll experience low speed or connection timeout. It may be from network congestion unrelated to your VPN service, a sudden server overload from bad weather, faulty hardware or even your protocol choice. When such happens, your device may reconnect, thereby exposing your IP since the VPN has yet to reactivate. Thankfully, Private Internet Access VPN offers Kill Switch. With PIA’s Kill Switch feature, your website will shut down to stop your internet from switching to a public network that can reveal your browsing activities and get you in trouble. Your VPN subscription comes with the Kill Switch feature enabled, but you can double-check by visiting “Privacy” under “Settings.” Select the “Always” option for “Advanced Kill Switch.” Private Internet Access VPN makes this feature available for small businesses and corporations looking to configure their entire office network. PIA then helps to protect important corporate data against surveillance or theft. As your teams work, your internet connection is encrypted. Private Internet Access also allows you to exclude one or more specific devices from your organization’s VPN connection. ISP routers are unsafe since your ISP can monitor your browsing history. To avoid snooping, you can set up Private Internet Access VPN on your router. Using PIA for your router also allows you to connect to devices such as smart TVs, gaming consoles and IoT devices that are typically incompatible with VPNs. And if you don’t want to set up PIA on your router, you can get a new router from PIA—one that has the VPN app preinstalled. These FlashRouters are easy to use as they don’t require any setup. Just plug it in and log in with your PIA details to connect. Featured Partners 1 NordVPN $3.49 per month 6 Yes (add-on) 1 NordVPN On NordVPN's Website 2 Surfshark $2.29 Unlimited Yes 2 Surfshark On Surfshark's Website 3 Norton $3.33/ month 1, 5 and 10 No 3 Norton On Norton's Website 4 Private Internet Access $2.03 Unlimited Yes (add-on) 4 Private Internet Access On Private Internet Access' Website Private Internet Access offers one of the cheapest VPN services—number two on Forbes Advisor’s list of Best Cheap VPNs. For $11.95 per month, you can use the VPN on unlimited devices, including smartphones, computers and routers, at the same time. You’ll also save more on its yearly plan, paying $3.33 per month, totaling $39.95 annually. If you pay for three years at once, you’ll get as low as $2.03 per month or $79 for three years and three months. Here is what PIA pricing looks like, according to your chosen payment plan. Note that you’ll get three months free on the three-year payment plan. 
 Each PIA payment plan has lightning-fast connection speeds and 24/7 customer support. You’ll access over 35,000 servers in 84 countries, enjoy dedicated apps for all major operating systems and a free email breach monitor to alert you of cybersecurity threats. ​Private Internet Access VPN also provides add-ons such as Dedicated IP Address and Antivirus by PIA for a higher level of privacy and security. Private Internet Access users can obtain a dedicated IP address for extra VPN usability. For an additional fee, access a higher level of security with a VPN service provided over a static IP address that only you can access. The exclusive IP address means fewer worries about crowded servers or blacklist experiences that stem from using shared IP addresses. Also, enjoy a better browsing experience with fewer interruptions, as you won’t be required to fill out CAPTCHAs since protection systems will be less likely to assume you’re a bot. PIA’s dedicated IP feature allows you to whitelist your dedicated IP address on home security cameras, smart doorbells and other IoT devices to restrict unauthorized access. You only need to pay a $5 monthly fee for each address and less for long-term subscriptions. Antivirus by PIA is available for an additional fee of $1.49 per month and at lower rates for longer subscriptions. Bundle the add-on into your subscription to scan and remove viruses and malware from your Windows devices. You can run a quick or complete scan anytime or schedule customized scans. PIA updates its database of viruses to enable full protection against new viruses and malware. It also has a prevention engine to fix your computer’s built-in defenses against vulnerabilities. This PIA antivirus alerts you of suspicious activities or threats approaching your system so you can take necessary action against them. Also, it isolates and neutralizes malicious files to prevent the spread of malware. Private Internet Access VPN is top of the line, ranking high on Forbes Advisor VPN reviews, but it doesn’t offer ample time for trying out its features. Even as number one on both Best iPhone VPNs and Best Android VPNs, the VPN only offers a seven-day free trial for Android and iOS apps—insufficient time to test it out. That’s not much of a deal-breaker, though. All PIA plans come with a risk-free money-back guarantee allowing users to purchase a plan upfront to test it out for 30 days. PIA provides unbeatable VPN coverage in all 50 U.S. states and 84 other countries across South America, North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, Central Asia and the Middle East. PIA has over 35,000 servers in numerous server locations, giving you more choices to spoof from and increasing your chances of finding a server near you. Changing your server is easy—just open the server list and click on any one you want. This table shows where PIA servers are located around the world. Note that WireGuard, OpenVPN and IKEv2/IPsec protocols are available in these locations, so you can switch between protocols. 
 When you connect to PIA, the VPN encrypts your internet data and hides your IP address, making it hard for trackers, advertisers and criminals to target you. PIA takes its security a notch higher by operating on a 100% strict no-logging policy that disallows PIA from collecting and storing your IP address, browsing history, connection logs, bandwidth consumption, DNS queries and VPN session timestamps. PIA’s no-logging policy has been tested and proven by the court multiple times. Protocols are the various routes through which VPNs transmit data across networks. Private Internet Access combines different protocols, including OpenVPN, WireGuard and IKEv2 to protect your activities on different platforms. WireGuard is a streamlined VPN protocol with performance-optimized code, using circa 4,000 lines of code. The typical VPN uses over 100,000 lines of code, but Private Internet Access VPN’s WireGuard uses this lightweight code base to attain more security and efficiency. With WireGuard, identifying and fixing leaks, bugs or errors is quick, boosting your connection speeds and stability. WireGuard is 100% open-source, negotiating a connection with a more secure tunnel that facilitates faster connection through its transmission over User Datagram Protocol (UDP). It also uses the latest VPN encryption standards, providing more security than older ones. Private Internet Access is one of the few VPN providers committed to offering 100% open-source VPN apps, which is great at bypassing firewalls without slowing down your internet. Open sourcing means the VPN software’s source code is open for the public to inspect and analyze for free. You can scrutinize or verify Private Internet Access via its GitHub page. VPN providers that use open-source codes depict decreased risks of vulnerability since if there were any privacy or security concerns, they would not subject their VPNs to open scrutiny. Internet Protocol security (IPsec) encrypts your data packet, ensures the tunnel is secure and confirms that internet data is transmitted intact. IKEv2 is an advanced VPN protocol that balances security and speed by using the UDP socket and port 500 for lower latency communication. IKEv2 enables an efficient browsing experience even when using VPN, so if, for instance, you’re switching from your mobile 4G network to Wi-Fi, you can do it without losing connectivity. PIA goes the extra mile to protect your data privacy and offer you browsing freedom. Below are a few more perks of choosing this virtual private network. PIA’s priority is enhancing your digital privacy and securing your online freedom. This VPN masks your IP address so ISPs and network administrators won’t see your activities online. It also operates a strict no-logs policy, assuring users that PIA does not record their browsing activities and bandwidth consumption when using the VPN. Credible security auditors have also audited and proven Private Internet Access VPN’s privacy claims. Private Internet Access VPN operates a strict 100% no-usage-logs policy. It does not collect your information or record your data, including your new IP address, browsing history, browsing duration, DNS queries, connection logs or bandwidth consumption. So, feel free to visit wherever you choose when using PIA. To add to its transparency, Private Internet Access VPN operates an open-source VPN software, making it open for anyone to scrutinize. And yes, PIA has been reviewed and proven to keep to its no-logs policy multiple times by auditing companies and courts. For example, Deloitte, one of the Big Four auditing firms, has audited PIA’s server environment. Deloitte confirms that PIA configurations align with its privacy policy, as PIA doesn’t identify its VPN users or record their activities over the VPN. An IP address is your device’s number, which enables connection to the internet. This address is tied to your physical location and online activities, exposing you to trackers, advertisers and authorities. They can thus track your activity, collect and sell your information and restrict your access to specific online content. However, PIA hides your IP address by rerouting your internet traffic through any of its servers. PIA servers will then assign you a new IP address to make it look like you’re connecting from a different location. And since your location and connection data are hidden, you will gain anonymity and access to your favorite content. For extra anonymity, PIA allows users to subscribe without their email addresses or financial information. You can use a burner account to set up your account and pay with third-party gift cards from Walmart, Best Buy, Starbucks and others. You can also pay with cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, BitPay and Litecoin. VPNs often slow down your connection—the encryption process creates some lag. However, a premium VPN service with a vast server network and fast VPN protocols such as PIA makes browsing even faster. For instance, when the VPN encrypts your traffic data, it prevents throttling connection speeds that typically come from your ISP because of your connection time, location or site. Private Internet Access combines fast-paced OpenVPN with WireGuard, a performance-optimized protocol, which is faster and more reliable than other protocols to give you a fast and stable connection. Also, PIA has a global network of next-generation VPN servers optimized to produce as much as 10 Gbps connection speeds. With these 35,000 servers in 84 countries, you can easily connect to one to upload and download content faster since there’s less server overcrowding. Also, PIA’s split tunneling feature sends only high-bandwidth traffic through the VPN, so you can browse and stream as much content as you want with optimum speed. When we tested PIA using Ookla’s speed test, the average upload speed was 20 Mbps, while the average download speed was 170 Mbps. Its download latency was 326ms. Its upload latency was better, with a lesser measure of 320ms. While these numbers may not be the best, it’s worth noting that we didn’t notice any hassles when using PIA. Also, the results we got from using PIA beat other top VPN services, including TorGuard VPN, NordVPN and CyberGhost. NordVPN delivered an average download speed of 149 Mbps over a download latency of 364ms, while TorGuard VPN’s average upload speed was 14 Mbps with an upload latency of 319ms. We got the lowest delivery out of the four providers from CyberGhost, which downloaded content with an almost regular download speed of 45 Mbps and 0.9 Mbps for uploading. PIA also offers every user unlimited bandwidth, allowing you to download, upload or stream as much content as you want without speed throttling or restriction of data usage. 
 Methodology: Our VPN speed comparison is tested on a Windows 11 machine using Ookla’s publicly available speed test. VPN services are connected to the nearest possible server. Speeds are updated weekly. Private Internet Access works on all major devices and operating systems, including Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, Linux, smart TVs and routers. Each PIA subscription allows access for unlimited devices, and it doesn’t matter that you’re on different platforms. And with PIA on your router, you can connect to more devices since the router counts as one device. You’ll access features, such as NextGen servers, PIA MACE, Advanced Split Tunneling and Secure VPN Protocols, and enjoy benefits, including unlimited bandwidth and a 100% strict no-logs policy on these devices. You can also stream georestricted content and share with other people on platforms such as YouTube, Netflix and BBC iPlayer. Yes, PIA supports several devices, and it is easy to connect it to your device since the website shows you where to download and run the installer. The table below shows the compatibility requirements of PIA VPN. 
 Private Internet Access VPN for Android and iOS Devices Private Internet Access VPN is available on Android and iOS devices so you can access geo-restricted content and keep safe from threats even when on the go. PIA works on Android phones with OS 5.1 and above. So whether you use a Samsung, HTC, Nokia or any other make or model, all you need to do is download PIA on Google Store. For iOS users, you will need to visit the App Store. While Apple provides some protection through Apple’s Private Relay, it works only with Safari, leaving your data exposed on other websites and networks. Also, security features such as split tunneling and obfuscation, which PIA offers, are missing. Using a VPN will drain your battery, but PIA’s features make it less noticeable. For instance, PIA MACE stops malware, spammy ads and intrusive trackers that normally slow up devices. Also, PIA’s WireGuard protocol is lightweight, reducing your mobile data and extending your battery life. Private Internet Access VPN for Desktop Use You can install PIA on Windows, Macs and Linux laptops and desktop computers. Private Internet Access VPN for Smart TVs Thanks to PIA’s Smart DNS, the VPN can work with your smart TV streaming apps and services. PIA works with Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV Stick, Roku TV, Samsung Smart TV, LG TV, Chromecast, Xbox and several other smart devices so you won’t miss out on your favorite shows. Configuring Smart DNS is easy, and you can always contact PIA’s 24/7 support team if you have any questions. PIA VPN allows its users to browse content using various browsers, including Chrome, Opera and Firefox. You can also stream your favorite content on different platforms and share it with peers on multiple platforms. The table below shows PIA’s compatibility with popular browsers: 
 PIA provides full access to popular streaming services, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+, HBO Max, BBC iPlayer Crunchyroll, Hulu, Eurosport, YouTube TV, Canal+, ITV, FranceTV, 9Now and 10Play, without sacrificing quality. While VPNs tend to slow down connections, because of their encryption and routing processes, PIA’s Smart DNS redirects your DNS for speed optimization. That way, you won’t notice any drop in streaming quality. However, it’s worth noting that PIA only guarantees access to specific services through a website browser. Private Internet Access VPN also offers peer-to-peer (P2P) support, allowing you to share data with others without interception or tracing the device that sends it. And since PIA supports thousands of servers, you can use any location for torrenting without restrictions. Private Internet Access offers users an easy-to-navigate VPN, so you won’t need tech knowledge to use it. Also, PIA is highly configurable. For instance, you can choose to use its OpenVPN or WireGuard protocol. You can also turn on or off any of its features. The server list clearly shows countries, cities and their ping times. You can further sort these servers by name or ping to make your search easier. PIA offers its users round-the-clock customer support. You can contact PIA’s knowledgeable agents via live chat or submit a support ticket and have a representative reach you by email. Alternatively, you can check PIA’s comprehensive support portal, where you’ll find useful guides, news and blog posts to answer questions about unclear features or troubleshoot any technical issues you may have. There’s also a community of PIA users you can reach to discuss relatable subjects. Private Internet Access VPN has the features and tools required to bypass content restrictions and beat cyber threats. However, as with other VPNs, it has specific characteristics that make it a better or less-preferred choice for different categories of users. Learn how PIA compares with its competition.     
 CyberGhost and PIA offer their features at cheap rates. You’ll get 24 hours to try CyberGhost’s premium features on Windows and macOS, three days for Android and seven days for iOS, but none on PIA. However, the two VPN providers offer a money-back guarantee—PIA offers 30 days, while CyberGhost users get 45 days. CyberGhost allows you to connect to seven devices simultaneously, while PIA enables unlimited devices. CyberGhost has fewer servers, 9,700-plus in 91 server locations, while PIA has over 35,000 in 84 countries. It also offers specific benefits to small businesses with its Corporate VPN. NordVPN and PIA VPN don’t offer any free trial, but you will get a full refund if you’re not satisfied with their features after 30 days. While they offer nearly the same amount for monthly subscriptions, PIA beats NordVPN when you make a long-term commitment. Also, it boasts of 35,000 servers, whereas NordVPN has only 5,400-plus servers. Private Internet Access also allows connection with unlimited devices, while NordVPN allows only six at the same time. However, NordVPN offers a more flexible VPN for businesses, offering three pricing tiers for its business VPN, NordLayer. PIA’s Corporate VPN provides only one plan. TorGuard offers you seven days to check if its features suit your needs. PIA does not offer any trial; however, it offers a 30-day money-back guarantee that gets you a full refund if you’re displeased with its services. TorGuard offers only a seven-day guarantee. PIA and TorGuard offer 24/7 support and dedicated IP, but TorGuard’s Pro and Premium plans have the feature embedded for free, while PIA has you paying for it separately. For the number of devices you can use simultaneously, PIA stacks higher because it allows for unlimited devices. TorGuard allows only eight. Also, PIA has over 35,000 servers available for users, whereas TorGuard offers only 3,000-plus. Featured Partners 1 NordVPN $3.49 per month 6 Yes (add-on) 1 NordVPN On NordVPN's Website 2 Surfshark $2.29 Unlimited Yes 2 Surfshark On Surfshark's Website 3 Norton $3.33/ month 1, 5 and 10 No 3 Norton On Norton's Website 4 Private Internet Access $2.03 Unlimited Yes (add-on) 4 Private Internet Access On Private Internet Access' Website Private Internet Access targets privacy-conscious individuals and businesses seeking a VPN with advanced privacy and security features. PIA also allows customization, so it’s suitable for you if you want some control over your VPN. PIA is a good choice for personal use. It gives you access to restricted content without compromising your security and ensures you don’t get distracting ads and malware that can tamper with your data. PIA’s fast internet speed also makes streaming and torrenting your favorite shows and events fast and easy. Businesses that want to keep their company-wide secrets and protect their customers’ data should use PIA. Its Corporate VPN feature offers specialized protection at discounted rates, and the VPN router allows your team members to connect as many devices as they want. This VPN service also offers dedicated IP service and antivirus, offering businesses more data protection. Private Internet Access VPN is very safe. It does not stop at blocking unwanted intrusion into your online activities. Its strict 100% no-logs policy disallows even the company from storing user information so that you can be sure that you’re genuinely safe from prying eyes. PIA is suitable for anyone who wants the utmost privacy over the internet. You’ll access georestricted content and keep off unwanted content on unlimited devices running on Windows, macOS, Linux, Android and others at a reasonable price. PIA uses the strongest encryption protocols to keep you protected. Read our guide to learn more about the best VPN services. But it depends on your activity and your awareness. A VPN, such as Private Internet Access, protects active data transfers while you’re online. If you’ve enabled cookies on websites you visit, advertisers can track your activity (but with a VPN, they won’t be able to connect your activity to your IP). Malware is another risk, but a VPN can’t protect you from installing malware. The process for connecting to a VPN varies, depending on your device and operating system. Generally, you need to download the VPN’s app or software, enter your username and password and select a server. For more detailed instructions, check out the VPN’s website or contact customer service. Private Internet Access VPN costs $11.95 per month when you subscribe for one month. Longer terms on PIA cost less. You will pay only $3.33 per month, totaling $39.95 for one year if you opt for its yearly plan. Its three-year plan costs $79, which means $2.03 per month, and three months free. One PIA subscription gives you access to multiple devices at the same time. PIA is good for streaming, as it is a fast VPN with strong security and the largest server network. PIA allows you to stream shows and events on popular platforms, including Amazon Prime, Netflix, Max, YouTube and Hulu. Its Smart DNS feature optimizes your internet speed, so there’s no drop in the streaming quality. To cancel future payments on PIA, log in to your account with your username and password. Select the “Subscription Overview” tab to click on “Turn off Auto-Renewal.” After stating the reason for cancellation, PIA cancels all automatic payments linked to your account. For a full refund within your first 30 days of using PIA, contact PIA’s customer service team.