Sign up to receive the TV WEEK e-Newsletter and offers we choose to share with you straight to your inbox  Disclaimer: By joining, you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms of Use FOLLOW US: Luxe Listings Sydney has taken Australia by storm, giving us a glimpse inside the real estate of the rich and famous in Sydney.  After season three left us on a cliff hanger (no spoilers don’t worry,) fans have been dying to find out what happens next. Read on to find out all the information you need to know about Luxe Listings Sydney season four… D’Leanne, Gavin, Simon and Monika from Luxe Listings Sydney. If you like Selling Sunset, you’re going to love Luxe Listings Sydney! Set in Australia’s most luxurious city, Sydney real estate sure does dress to impress.  Feel like you’re a part of the top real estate agents in Sydney as you sell mansions and penthouses to the rich and famous.  In fact, they even sold a mansion to Delta Goodrem in season three of Luxe Listings Sydney! Dubbed the ‘Cyrpto Castle’, we can see why since this poolside plus beachside mansion is owned by a Crypto millionaire in Luxe Listings Sydney season two. Team Gavin: Gavin Rubinstein was the first luxurious real estate agent that we met on Luxe Listings Sydney! And he sure does bring the drama.  This hot-headed owner of The Rubinstein Group expects nothing but perfection from his staff, which translates to winning the number one principal internationally at the Ray White Group Awards.  His top real estate agents include Shani Asadon (Head Of Operations) who is not afraid to say what she thinks, even if it’s against her boss… and Cae Thomas (Associate Director) who sure does bring in the dough. Gavin Rubinstein cradling Delta Goodrem’s guitar on Luxe Listings Sydney season three. Team Simon: Simon Cohen is set up as Gavin’s enemy and best friend in the real estate world. These two seem to always be at each other’s throats when finding a property for prospective buyers like Delta.  Simon owns Cowen Handler, an award-winning company who has been “featured in SmartCompany’s SMART50 Awards for a number of years.” His Associate Tammy Handler is sought-after in the real estate world, with D’Leanne wanting to poach Tammy to her team instead. Simon and Gavin have a bad habit of making thousand-dollar bets on who can win on Luxe Listings Sydney. Team D’Leanne: D’Leanne Lewis keeps the two boys in line, in fact, Gavin has even admitted to Daily Mail that he’s had a crush on her “for years.” Not only does she juggle having three kids (having a baby as recently as last year at five at age 50) as a single parent, but she also runs her own business, D’Leanne Lewis.  Winning the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales (REINSW) coveted Residential Sales Person of the Year and REINSW’s Auction Award For Residential Excellence. (Try to say that three times!) D’Leanne trying to steal Simon’s Associate Tammy at yoga by the beach on the first season of Luxe Listings Sydney. Team Monika: Fans were introduced to Monika Tu in Luxe Listings Sydney season two and it feels like she’s been there the entire time! Monika is big on family and calms the tension between the three cutthroat real estate owners. But don’t be fooled, Monika is a record-breaking real estate agent who is estimated to have sold around 2.15 billion dollars worth of property since starting her own business, Black Diamondz.  Check back for more information to come on who else is going to be in Luxe Listings Sydney season four… When Monica Tu invited Simon and Tammy over for a traditional Chinese dinner with her family. After Luxe Listings Sydney season three left on a cliffhanger, fans have been dying for a season four release date. Previously estimated to come out in May 2023, the actual release date has been postponed due to unexpected delays. However, since Luxe Listings Sydney has recently partnered with a big network for airing rights, a release date could soon be on the cards… When is Luxe Listings Sydney season four release date? Starring Monica Tu, Gavin Rubinstein, D’Leanne Lewis and Simon Cohen. You can stream Luxe Listings Sydney seasons one, two, and three now on Amazon Prime Video! LLS season four is also estimated to be released on Prime Video. And this just in, you can now watch Luxe Listings Sydney season one on Channel Nine. Set an alarm for 8:45 tonight on the 30th of August to watch season one, episode one of Luxe Listings Sydney live on Nine. Missed it? Don’t worry, you’ll be able to catch up on 9Now. Stream seasons one, two, and three of Luxe Listings Sydney now on Prime Video with a 30-day free trial. Subscribe here. Sign up to receive the TV WEEK e-Newsletter and offers we choose to share with you straight to your inbox  Disclaimer: By joining, you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms of Use FOLLOW US: Huge savings plus FREE home delivery 
					© 2024 Are Media Pty Ltd				 
					Are Media acknowledges the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia. We pay our respects to Elders past and present. All products are independently selected, tested or recommended by our team of experts. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Are Media and its brands may have generated text partially using generative AI. Upon generating draft language, our editors review, edit, and revise it to their own liking. We take ultimate responsibility for the content of our publications.				