The AMA is committed to supporting efforts to reduce and prevent the rising rates of maternal mortality. Download the PDF with an overview of AMA recommendations to improve outcomes. The World Health Organization has declared the global mpox outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. Stay informed with the latest updates from the AMA. The AMA Update covers a range of health care topics affecting the lives of physicians and patients. Learn more about trends in physician burnout. The AMA Update covers a range of health care topics affecting the lives of physicians and patients. Learn more about trends in physician burnout. Take a look at the crucial role of International Medical Graduates (IMGs) in our nation's health care landscape and how the AMA is working to support IMGs. A framework for educators and administrators who create programs for coaching medical students—view videos, purchase books or download directories of workshop participants. Learn from two AMA members about why organized medicine is an ideal venue in which medical students can build their leadership skills. The AMA Update covers a range of health care topics affecting the lives of physicians and patients. Learn more about program signals for residency applications. AMA member Scott H. Pasichow, MD, MPH, was in his second year of residency when he realized he needed help. Today, he still practices prevention. Some physician specialties enjoy high demand nearly everywhere, but this isn’t true for all. A recruiter has tips for evaluating employment opportunities. Download the vision statement PDF on the AMA's commitment to improving health insurance coverage and health care access. People who are uninsured live sicker and die younger. Learn how the AMA works to strengthen the Affordable Care Act and expand health insurance coverage. The 2024 International Conference on Physician Health will be held Oct. 17–Oct. 19, 2024. Learn more. This two-day boot camp Sept. 23-24, 2024, is designed for clinical and operational change agents looking to eliminate unnecessary work and free up more time to focus on what matters most–patient care. Make travel arrangements for the Interim Meeting of the HOD taking place Nov. 8-12 at the Walt Disney World Swan and Dolphin Resort, Orlando, Florida. Find out about the election bylaws and policies for being elected to the AMA House of Delegates. Download PDFs of council reports that have proposed strategies establishing the AMA vision for health system reform to cover the uninsured and expand health insurance coverage and choice. Download PDFs of reports from the Council on Medical Education presented during the AMA Annual and Interim Meetings. The Medical Student Section (MSS) provides policy making resources for its members, including guidance on how to submit resolutions. Learn how the Private Practice Physicians Section (PPPS) advocates and shapes AMA policies that support physician private practices. Physician burnout figures have dipped, but much work remains. The AMA offers a wealth of resources supporting professional satisfaction. In the news: COVID surges in U.S., cancer deaths among men rising, Parvovirus B19 infections on the rise, mpox now an international health emergency and more. Jun 30, 2023 Despite challenges to the practice of medicine rarely rivaled in the AMA’s 176-year history, Jesse M. Ehrenfeld, MD, MPH, said that, as his term as AMA president gets underway, he remains confident in the outlook for physicians—and for health care in general—in the U.S. The AMA is your powerful ally, focused on addressing the issues important to you, so you can focus on what matters most—patients. “We can get this right. We can work to heal our nation,” ​said Dr. Ehrenfeld in a recent episode of “AMA Update.” “But this is only going to happen,” he added, “if we let physicians practice medicine—medicine that's driven by science, by our understanding of the human body, of health and disease, by restoring trust in the health care system and allowing patients to decide with their doctor what's in their best interests.” Dr. Ehrenfeld is senior associate dean, tenured professor of anesthesiology and director of the “Advancing a Healthier Wisconsin Endowment” at the Medical College of Wisconsin. A key part of his efforts as president will focus on the AMA Recovery Plan for America’s Physicians. “I hear every day how exhausting it is to practice medicine in America today,” he said. “But, in spite of that, people roll up their sleeves, they put on their scrubs, they don their white coats every day, because they know that what they do matters.” “I know firsthand that physicians have just put everything into our nation's response to COVID,” Dr. Ehrenfeld added. “And now it's time for the nation to renew our commitment to physicians and shore up our health care system.” The AMA Recovery Plan for America’s Physicians is rebuilding critical components of the medical profession by: Learn about the Recovery Plan’s progress so far. “Despite the fact that our health care system is in crisis, and so many of my physician colleagues are just at their breaking point, I'm optimistic,” Dr. Ehrenfeld said. “I'm optimistic about the future, about what lies ahead, about where I know I can help lead America's physicians and the AMA.” Dr. Ehrenfeld is the first president of the AMA to be openly gay and to have school-aged children while in office. He is also one of the youngest to hold the position, and he said he’s aware of the degree to which his service in such a highly visible role may reach those feeling isolated or different. “I know that somebody out there watching this segment is probably struggling because of their identity, because they've been picked on,” he said. “And I can only hope that the visibility that I bring through my leadership to the AMA—which, as you know, is the nation's oldest, most influential physician group—can give that person who is struggling some hope and some sense of possibility.” Dr. Ehrenfeld talked about how his perspective can inform the AMA’s role in supporting the primacy of the patient-physician relationship in health care and advancing health equity, particularly for patients from historically marginalized groups. “Issues of LGBTQ+ health and health equity are close to my heart and have been a focus of my work in medicine and will certainly be an important part of my work in the year ahead,” he said. In his remarks, Dr. Ehrenfeld also discussed the ways in which the AMA can help physicians “harness the power” of augmented intelligence (AI)—often called artificial intelligence—to improve health care quality, work conditions and technology. “Without the direct input—the guidance from physicians at the earliest stages of conception and design—far too many of these technologies are going to fail to deliver,” he said. It’s crucial, he added, for physicians to be involved “in the design and the development of these new AI-enabled technologies, providing AI training, resources and support, looking at AI trends and analysis, the regulatory framework and what's happening in the marketplace.” “AMA Update” covers health care topics affecting the lives of physicians and patients. Hear from physicians and experts on public health, advocacy issues, scope of practice and more—because who’s doing the talking matters. You can catch every episode by subscribing to the AMA’s YouTube channel or the audio-only podcast version, which also features educational presentations and in-depth discussions.  The AMA promotes the art and science of medicine and the betterment of public health.  Download AMA Connect app for
            iPhone or
      Android The best in medicine, delivered to your mailbox