The Rangers seized control of this Game 2 early in the second period and never let go. They flashed the skill for which they are famous, but there was much more than that. Because trailing 1-0 off a first-period, power-play goal, the Blueshirts took over the old-fashioned playoff way. They banged, they forechecked, they outmuscled the Devils and hemmed them in their own end one shift after another after another. The club’s immense talent waited then piled on. Body blows pinned the Devils on the ropes. Knockout blows delivered by the likes of Vlad Tarasenko, Chris Kreider and Patrick Kane, who rose to the moment with his best game as a Ranger, followed. “Playing that way and that physical isn’t easy to do all the time,” captain Jacob Trouba said after the Blueshirts’ second consecutive 5-1 victory at The Rock gave his team a 2-0 series lead in advance of Saturday’s Game 3 at what undoubtedly will be a crazed Garden. “There are times in the regular season if we’re behind we fall into the trap of saying, ‘Let’s skill it out.’ “But we didn’t fall into that trap tonight.” Trouba was credited with a game-high eight hits of his team’s total of 39. The physicality was contagious through the lineup, starting with a mixed line featuring Vincent Trocheck between Alexis Lafreniere and Kaapo Kakko that started the forecheck parade. “Rolling thunder,” said Kreider, who duplicated his Game 1 feat by scoring on two more power-play deflections. “We talked about it. When we get our forecheck going and keep the puck down there, we’re a different team.” The Rangers, of course, are only halfway home. But they have established superiority in every facet of the game against a club that, two home games into their first playoff experience since 2018, does not seem ready for prime time. Goaltender Vitek Vanecek has not been nearly good enough and will likely take a seat in favor of Akira Schmid. Head coach Lindy Ruff’s decision to keep talented neophyte Luke Hughes in street clothes but instead insert Brendan Smith into the lineup in place of the scratched Jonas Siegenthaler represents a head scratcher. Want to catch a game? The Rangers schedule with links to buy tickets can be found here. The Rangers took away Jack Hughes’ time and space throughout a match in which the Devils constantly fiddled with line combinations. The maneuvers did not matter. The Blueshirts were everywhere. They took the Devils’ hopes and crushed them, minute by minute by minute. “You don’t expect 5-1 scores in the playoffs and against a really good team, but we did expect to play pretty much the way we have,” said Trocheck, who set a screen on the Tarasenko drive from the high slot that tied the match 1-1 at 5:53 of the second period to culminate nearly three minutes of pressure. Oh, there was one incident that deviated from the norm — when Shesterkin stoned Hughes just about 40 seconds before the Blueshirts struck on a shift that resembled a slice of demolition derby life. “It’s going to be key to forecheck and keep them in their own end,” Trocheck said. “Nobody likes to play in the defensive zone. It’s exhausting. We want to make them work as hard as possible down there.” The Rangers were credited with 32 hits in Tuesday’s Game 1. They had 17 in the first period on Thursday before finishing with 39 on the night. The infantry set the stage and the fly boys swooped in for glory. Kreider’s goals were on artful deflections, the first off a Kane wrist shot, the second off a Kane pass to the blade while No. 20 turned to the net. All those redirects that did not go in during the season are going in now. Four power-play shots, four power-play goals for No. 20. “He’s not only one of the best at that in the league, he’s one of the best I’ve seen,” Kane said. “He touches everything in every drill. It’s tough to control that on the power play.” Indeed, the Rangers’ first unit with Kane, Kreider, Adam Fox, Mika Zibanejad and Artemi Panarin have scored six goals in the team’s past four games. It is humming. So was Kane in this one. A day after pledging that he had more to give, this was the No. 88 from Chicago, electric with the puck and assertive all over the ice. “I didn’t have a great Game 1, so it was nice to be a little more aggressive,” said Kane, who scored the 4-1 goal at 6:34 of the third on a left-wing drive to the net. “There’s nothing like playoff hockey and being part of the action.” The Rangers are in command. They have played disciplined hockey. They are giving nothing away for free. But they are also only halfway there. Heavy lifting lays ahead. “To come on the road and steal two is pretty special, but we don’t want to sit back at home,” Kane said with his three Cups full of wisdom. “I can’t wait to see the Garden.”  Advertisement