
 New information for Red Ded Redemption's Remake was updated by a known insider of the company, centering on the latest developments to the rumored game. The latest information centers on the company focusing its remake development on third-party partners, instead of doing it themselves within Rockstar Games.  Many fans have already requested the remake of Red Dead Redemption and Red Dead Redemption 2 for modern gaming consoles, equipped with the latest cutting-edge developments to its experience. Tez2 revealed on his latest post via GTA Forums that the development of Red Dead Redemption's remake is seeing a light at the end of a tunnel, but not exactly a bright one. In their claims, Rockstar Dundee (previously known as Ruffian Games) may not be involved in the development of this remake. It also includes the non-involvement of GTA Trilogy co-developer, Grove Street Games, after it parted with Rockstar Games after the GTA Trilogy remake.  While Rockstar Dundee is not involved in its development, other third-party studios may be tapped in to swoop in for RDR's remake for modern consoles, as reportedly, Rockstar still has plans to expand its remakes on other series.  Read Also: GTA 6 Leaks: Vice City Is Not the Only Setting of the Game; New Location Revealed There are previous hints regarding the RDR remake as evidenced by different discoveries online.  One is the most iconic one, as Red Dead Redemption appeared on a Korean listing board earlier this week.  Moreover, Rockstar's plans to remake other games were evidenced by last year's confirmation that a Max Payne title will see an upcoming revamp for modern consoles.  An upcoming in-game event for RDR Online is set to take place by July 10, and this may bring further details as fans and insiders dig for additional information about a possible remake of the original game. For a long time now, there are massive requests from gamers regarding the return of the famed Rockstar Games release, Red Dead Redemption, one of the most beloved franchises in the present time. It was previously said that Red Dead Redemption's remake would depend on the success of the Grand Theft Auto Trilogy's remake.  However, it was not necessarily a successful release from Rockstar Games and its partner, Grove Street Games. No further details were shared after this.  Rumor mongers did not let this go, as they continued to bring further details regarding a possible remake of Red Dead Redemption's two-game releases (yes, including RDR2) for modern gaming consoles. While the ongoing Red Dead Redemption Online is still delivering the experience to gamers, they are asking for the return of the classic game which they highly enjoyed from more than a decade ago. For now, there are no concrete details on the development of Red Dead Redemption, but that does not completely close the book on a possible remake of the beloved title.  Related Article: 'Red Dead Redemption 2' Surpasses Record for New Players, Rockstar To Reward Players in Christmas Update Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  