Recent decades have witnessed an accelerating pace in the development and adoption of technology, which is affecting almost every area of the economy and society. Some of the rapid technological changes include artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning, the Internet, drone technologies, renewable energy technologies, etc.  On the occasion of National Technology Day, Livemint interacted with the founders or CEOs of some organizations about the impact of growing technology on global development.  “As leaders in the tech industry, we are responsible for ensuring that our innovations are not only cutting-edge but also socially responsible. We must strive to create solutions that advance our businesses' interests and promote global equity and prosperity,” Sampath said.  “The transformative power of technology must be harnessed to address the world's most pressing challenges, from climate change to poverty reduction. Let us use our collective expertise to build a better world for all, leaving no one behind in the digital age,” the Payoda Technologies CEO added.  He said that technology has had a transformative effect on global development, and IT services and solutions have been indispensable. “These tools, which range from cybersecurity to cloud computing, have made it possible for organizations and individuals to communicate, work together, and develop in previously unthinkable ways.” “Additionally, IT services and solutions have played a significant role in the development of the global economy and the emergence of new opportunities for people. Technology has assisted in establishing new industries and sparked job growth by allowing businesses to function more efficiently and access new markets,” Ganguli said.  He added, "Ultimately, how we use technology's potential will determine how it affects global development. We can ensure that IT services and solutions continue to be a force for good in the world by cooperating to create a more inclusive and sustainable future." "Technology has become the catalyst for global development, revolutionizing the way we live, work, and connect. Its impact has been nothing short of transformative, empowering nations to leapfrog barriers and unlock untapped potential. From the smallest villages to the largest cities, technology has democratized access to information, education, and opportunities, narrowing the digital divide and fostering inclusive growth." “Technology has also stimulated the global economy with the rise of e-commerce. It has opened up new markets for businesses of all sizes across the globe. It has sparked innovation in agriculture, enabling efficient farming practices to feed a growing population while minimizing environmental impact. Moreover, technology has been instrumental in promoting sustainable development, harnessing renewable energy sources, and mitigating the effects of climate change,” Kaushik added.  Catch all the Business News , Breaking News Events and Latest News  Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App  to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.