Are we on our way to a more collaborative telecom industry? 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The GSMA has announced the introduction of open network APIs that it hopes will help provide developers with universal access to telecom networks like never before. Unveiled at MWC 2023 in Barcelona, Open Gateway has been described as a “paradigm shift in the way the telecoms industry designs and delivers services in an API economy world”. The GSMA says Open Gateway is designed with developer-friendly tools and code in an effort to encourage developers to tap into the network APIs and deploy services both more quickly and easily.  Open Gateway has initially launched with eight universal network APIs: SIM Swap; Quality on Demand; Device Status (Connected or Roaming); Number Verify; Edge Site Selection and Routing; Number Verification (SMS 2FA); Carrier Billing - Check Out; and Device Location (Verify Location). In the year ahead, the Open Gateway initiative plans to launch even more APIs to help connect developers to participating networks. The work has been made possible thanks to the GSMA’s collaboration with the Linux Foundation, who together have created the CAMARA open-source project, which already has 21 of the most prominent network operators signed up > These are the best laptops for programming

> Telcos are set to spend billions on new cloud infrastructure

> Top European telcos come together to build a huge online ad network Among the initial signatories a Telstra, America Movil, AT&T, Axiata, Bharti Airtel, China Mobile, Deutsche Telekom, e& Group, KDDI, KT, Liberty Global, MTN, Orange, Singtel, Swisscom, STC, Telefónica, Telenor, TIM, Verizon, and Vodafone. These are all networks that plan to facilitate the rollout of more connected technologies, including autonomous vehicles, drones, robotics, and extended reality. Use cases could extend beyond the typical consumer to other official bodies, too: the SIM Swap API is said to be pivotal to fighting financial crime, for example. Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! Developers looking to get on board with the GSMA Open Gateway can expect to hear more about early adopter programs over the next 12 months, including through events like Microsoft Ignite and Build, and AWS re:Invent. "By applying the concept of interconnection for operators to the API economy developers can utilise technology once, for services such as identity, cybersecurity or billing, but with the potential to be integrated with every operator worldwide. This is a profound change in the way we design and deliver services," said Mats Granryd, Director General of GSMA. With several years’ experience freelancing in tech and automotive circles, Craig’s specific interests lie in technology that is designed to better our lives, including AI and ML, productivity aids, and smart fitness. He is also passionate about cars and the decarbonisation of personal transportation. As an avid bargain-hunter, you can be sure that any deal Craig finds is top value! Phonemax X3 rugged phone review AGM PAD P2 Active rugged tablet review RevAir hair dryer review: designed to tackle complex hair TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 