Everest Group hails Mercans' service capabilities and strategic approach Mercans, the global frontrunner in payroll technology, has recently been named a Leader in NelsonHall’s annual NEAT assessment of the leading payroll companies across the globe. Among multi-country payroll firms, NelsonHall ranks Mercans highly for its ability to deliver immediate benefits to clients and meet future payroll needs. Immediately following NelsonHall's recognition of Mercans as a Leader, the Everest Group - a leading global research firm, recognised Mercans as Star Performer for the second consecutive year for its Multi-Country Payroll (MCP) Solutions. Providing fully automated, digitalised global payroll solutions across 160+ countries, Mercans is recognised as an industry leader in both customer service and compliance. Outperforming most of its competitors by a wide margin, it displayed once again that it is the only company in the industry in a position to provide non-aggregator payroll services globally on a single native platform. Mercans’ proprietary payroll platform HR Blizz offers seamless integration capabilities with top HCM platforms, including Workday, UKG, Ceridian, SAP SuccessFactors, Oracle, and Darwinbox, as well as with the leading ERP solutions and local statutory authorities. Mercans' newly appointed CEO for its Payroll and SaaS vertical, K. A. Viswanathan (Vish), add, “Mercans continues to disrupt the payroll industry by doing what no other provider has been able to accomplish. We deliver global payroll services without using sub-contractors or third-party software. Our end-to-end payroll software integrates seamlessly with all major HCM solutions or can be used as a stand-alone digital payroll platform. Companies of any size can finally achieve full automation of their international payroll operations while reducing their operating costs.” Liz Rennie, NelsonHall’s HR Technology and Services Research Director says, “Mercans is a Leader in the multi-country payroll services market, offering 160-country payroll services through a single platform, HR Blizz, one of the largest payroll engines available in the market. The single payroll engine approach delivers a hassle-free multi-country payroll process, enabling clients to benefit from cost reductions. Mercans’ leadership position is also a result of its flexibility in offering both SaaS and managed payroll services, as well as bringing strong capability with an experienced and efficient team that its clients greatly value.” The Everest Group, on the other hand, says Mercans sets itself apart from its competitors through its unique service focus, intellectual property and solutions, and domain investments and partnerships. It also recognizes Mercans as the only global provider of payroll, EOR, and integrated SaaS solutions. “Mercans has created a differentiated value proposition in the MCP market through its technology platform, HR Blizz. The platform supports gross-to-net calculations across multiple geographies and can provide broader workforce management capabilities. "Clients have valued Mercans for its in-country compliance support, platform’s scalability, and flexible outsourcing model, which has helped to strengthen its position as a Major Contender and emerge as a Star Performer in Everest Group’s MCP PEAK Matrix® Assessment.’’ says Priyanka Mitra, Practice Director, Everest Group. 
              Get Breaking News Alerts From Gulf News
             We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.