Strong regulation of artificial intelligence use in the UK would help stop malicious uses of the technology from reaching or harming the public, MPs have been told. Representatives from BT, Google and Microsoft told the Science and Technology Select Committee that AI regulation should focus on how the technology is used and not the tech itself in order to be most effective. The appearance of the tech giants before the committee, which is investigating the governance of AI, comes as generative AI – chatbots able to understand questions and hold human-like conversations – developed by Google and Microsoft have grabbed the public’s attention and raised concerns about the technology’s future. Microsoft is integrating OpenAI’s ChatGPT software into its Bing search engine, while Google has announced the development of its own chatbot – Bard – which will use Google Search to answer queries and respond to requests. As we regulate AI, we need to make sure that we are thinking hard about the regulation of uses of AI rather than the AI itself Hugh Milward, Microsoft UK When asked by MPs if the tech giants would be concerned if AI products were developed with malicious intent by countries such as China, Hugh Milward, general manager for corporate, external and legal affairs at Microsoft UK admitted the company would be “worried” by such a development, but said strong regulation in the UK would help protect the public here. “We can’t hold back the development of AI that has been developed in other countries,” he said. “As we regulate AI, we need to make sure that we are thinking hard about the regulation of uses of AI rather than the AI itself. “Because if we do that, then irrespective of where it is developed – if it’s developed in a regime that we don’t necessarily agree with – if we regulate its use, then that AI has to, when used in the UK, abide by a set of principles. “We can regulate how it’s used in the UK. “So it allows us then to worry less about where it’s developed, and worry more about how it’s being used.” When discussing uses of the technology, Conservative MP Aaron Bell, who chaired the session, said that he believes civil servants have been asking if they are allowed to use software such as ChatGPT to “help produce briefing materials”. He said he believed staff at the new Department for Science, Innovation and Technology had made “a number of requests” as to whether they could use the programme in their work. In response, Mr Milward said he thought AI could “without a doubt” could be helpful in Government because of its ability to be programmed to spot more quickly anomalies or patterns in huge collections of data. On the ongoing public testing of the ChatGPT-powered Bing and Google’s Bard, the two companies said they understood some of the concerns raised around the rise of the technology, but that allowing people to use the software was a key way for them to learn as they continue to build and develop it. Both companies noted that they also had internal policies around testing in order to reduce bias and other issues in the development of AI products. There have been concerns raised about the possible impact of the technology on a range of writing-based professions, as well as its possible use by students in essay creation. There have also been issues raised about chatbots spreading misinformation if it is not able to understand the context of the authenticity of sources. Asked by MPs if they were worried about the future and the potential power of AI to move beyond the control of humans, Mr Milward said he was not, as AI is a “co-pilot, not an autopilot” and humans had control over how it was used. Jen Gennai, Google’s director of responsible innovation, said that while it was “my job to be worried”, she was “excited about the technology as long as there are guardrails” such as strong regulation. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." One day before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has embarked on a bus tour in Pennsylvania with her running mate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... Republicans hope the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will intervene in an Arizona state election dispute. The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said