US memory chip giant Micron Technology, currently under a cybersecurity investigation by Chinese authorities, has appointed a new general manager for China in a signal of its commitment to the country, which accounts for 11 per cent of its revenues. Betty Wu, or Wu Mingxia, has been named as general manager of Micron China, while continuing to serve as a vice-president of its DRAM packaging and test operations unit in the northwest city of Xian, to “embody the company’s unwavering commitment to the local technology ecosystem, business operations, and various stakeholders in China”, the company said in a statement on Thursday. Wu, who joined Micron in 2018, said in a statement that Micron China “plays a critical role in enhancing the company’s global footprint and DRAM technology leadership” and she will “drive Micron’s future development blueprint in China and collaborate closely with central and local governments, as well as a wide range of customers”. Micron did not name Wu’s predecessor, indicating that the position is newly created. 01:54 ‘Don’t help a villain’: China urges Japan not to follow US’ lead on tech isolation The move comes six weeks after the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) launched a national security probe into Micron products in mainland China to “safeguard key information infrastructure supply chain security” and “prevent cyberspace security risks due to problematic products”. The development comes amid heightened tensions between Beijing and Washington over trade in semiconductors and advanced chip-making equipment. While the probe is still ongoing, it could result in hefty fines or even a sales ban on Micron products in China if they are found to be problematic, lawyers and analysts have said. Beijing’s move against Micron is seen by some industry watchers as China’s retaliation against the US chip company after it lobbied Washington to take measures to restrict China’s access to advanced chip technologies. Neither Beijing or Micron have provided details about the investigation. Micron is the first foreign chip maker to be probed in China and has said it is “in communication with the CAC and cooperating fully” when the probe was announced on March 31. Wu was previously responsible for managing the company’s packaging and testing programmes and implementation teams. She has over 30 years of experience in the electronics and semiconductor industry, according to the statement. Prior to Micron, Wu worked for US NAND maker Western Digital Corp, according to her profile on LinkedIn. She has a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of South Wales, UK, and a Bachelor’s degree in Production Automation Engineering from South China University of Technology. Wu has kept a relatively low-profile in China. During the pandemic and city lockdown in Xian in 2021, Micron donated 1 million yuan’s (US$144,000) worth of medical care and other materials to the city and Wu attended a ceremony for the donation, according to Micron.