
 Ever heard of an identity crisis or people mistaking another person for being someone else because they have the same name? This is also happening in the tech world, and believe it or not, there are same-name apps that are available in the App Store now, with Meta's Threads significantly boosting the popularity of another Threads app.  The goal to look for a different experience and Elon Musk-free platform is now over with Meta's Threads, now one of the most famous apps in the world. Before Meta even announced or released the new Instagram text-based app, there was already an app and platform called Threads, available since 2019. This is a communication tools app that took the name earlier than Meta, and it is focused on providing a different experience apart from social media exposure.  According to TechCrunch, there may have been some confusion regarding the name Threads, especially as when Meta introduced the new app, Data.ai reported that it saw the 2019 app rise to popularity as well.  It only saw several downloads to begin with as only a few people knew about it and use the app for their needs. However, it saw a significant rise to fame after Meta's release, now standing at the 52nd spot of the most downloaded app in the App Store.  Read Also: Is Threads Destined to End Twitter? Here's Why It's Getting More Love Threads is known for being a Slack, Discord, Twist, and more's alternative, promising more to experience and enjoy with its features.  Apart from Threads' boost in App Store popularity, its website, Threads.com, also saw a boost in traffic and visits from people all over the world. It is also important to highlight that Meta's Threads holds the domain for Threads.net. The company also made a meme about it, showing both "Threads" on the internet now. Threads was only released less than two weeks ago, but it already garnered a significant number of downloads and users on the platform, setting new records for a social media app. Since then, the new platform experienced only highs and warm reception from the public, and this is despite the platform facing several issues and bugs that are understandable for users.  The Instagram app is also near to crossing the 100 million userbase threshold, and it is catching up fast to industry giants and rivals in the industry. With Threads gaining significant traction in the tech industry today, all eyes are on its rival, Twitter, which also claims that it is thriving in the new metrics it set, seemingly unbothered by Meta's app.  It seems like Threads' popularity is still not yet going away, especially as it is slowly becoming a stellar name, a platform that users prefer to use to instantly share their thoughts. Meta helped boost another app called Threads in the App Store, and this is only natural as in other regions like the EU, the text-based app is not yet available.  Instead of the Slack-alternative Threads taking this as an offense, it posted a meme and made sure to indicate that it is not affiliated with Meta or Instagram for the public to know.  Related Article: Meta Blocks EU Users from Accessing Threads App Through VPN Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  