
WiSA Certified and interoperable products from member brands Savant, Bang & Olufsen, Dynaudio, Lithe Audio, Platin Audio, Hisense and more will highlight the rapid adoption of WiSA’s wireless audio standard
 WiSA Association’s CEDIA booth (#4320) will include a range of interoperable products that allow for immersive, wireless audio experiences in an instant. (Photo: Business Wire) SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--WiSA Association, a subsidiary of WiSA Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: WISA), enters CEDIA Expo 2023 with new wireless multichannel technology designed specifically for soundbars and a growing roster of WiSA-enabled speakers, TVs and projectors from its engaged membership base. The Association’s CEDIA booth (#4320), in addition to its members’ booths throughout the show floor, will include a range of interoperable products that allow for immersive, wireless audio experiences in an instant.

  
WiSA DS-Enabled Milan 5.1.4 Soundbar System from Platin Audio
 
Platin Audio will debut its Milan 5.1.4 Soundbar System with WiSA at CEDIA before its October launch. The system is the industry’s first to incorporate WiSA DS Technology to wirelessly power four channels of surround and true Dolby Atmos up-firing audio and a subwoofer from a single transmitter module. The Milan 5.1.4 Soundbar System delivers industry-leading technology and performance at an accessible price point of $799 MSRP. The Platin Audio Milan 5.1.4 Soundbar System relies upon WiSA DS Technology to ensure seamless and reliable 16-bit 48kHz audio transmission from the bar to the two surround channels, two rear up-firing channels and the subwoofer channel. WiSA DS is the second technology module from WiSA, designed specifically for the soundbar market to allow 4.1 channels of high-definition audio from a single transmitter.

 
WiSA Home Theater (HT) Interoperable Certified Speakers
 
CEDIA attendees will also see WiSA HT Interoperable Certified speakers from Bang & Olufsen, Buchardt Audio, Dynaudio, Savant, Lithe Audio, System Audio and Mesonovic. These brands utilize WiSA HT technology in select speaker models, allowing them to receive uncompressed, 24-bit 48/96 kHz sound over a multichannel wireless network created by a WiSA Certified transmitter and speakers. The technology transmits up to eight channels of audio, supporting sound systems up to 7.1 and 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos for truly immersive audio. To earn this certification, products undergo rigorous testing ensuring they produce the high-definition, world-class, multichannel audio that WiSA products are known for.

 
WiSA SoundSend Certified TVs and Projectors
 
The Association will showcase the latest WiSA SoundSend Certified TVs and projectors from members including Hisense and Optoma. WiSA’s SoundSend Certification verifies TVs and projectors work flawlessly with the award-winning WiSA SoundSend wireless audio transmitter, ensuring picture-perfect, tightly synchronized sound from all connected WiSA HT Certified speakers. WiSA is witnessing a growing number of SoundSend Certified TVs that can all sync to speakers via the WiSA SoundSend to complete amazing and immersive surround sound experiences for today’s streaming and on-demand TV, movie, sports, music and gaming content.

 
“We are excited to support our participating members at CEDIA and share an impressive lineup of new and upcoming WiSA-enabled products,” said Tony Ostrom, WiSA President. “The show will also provide a great opportunity to officially introduce WiSA DS Technology via Platin Audio’s first-ever soundbar, allowing us to highlight its performance capabilities and price advantages for the soundbar market.”

 
WiSA Technologies Overview
 
WiSA will showcase all three WISA Technologies and provide insight into the use cases and competitive advantages of each technology. WiSA HT transmitter and receiver module-based technology, WiSA DS transceiver module-based technology and WiSA E transceiver-based and embeddable technology will all be on display.

 
CEDIA attendees can learn more about these WiSA Technologies and WiSA Certified products from industry-leading member brands as well as the Association’s wireless audio interoperability standard and capabilities at booth #4320.

 
To learn more about WiSA and explore its product offerings, visit www.wisatechnologies.com.

 
About WiSA Technologies, Inc.
 
WiSA Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: WISA) is a leading provider of immersive, wireless sound technology for intelligent devices and next-generation home entertainment systems. Working with leading CE brands and manufacturers such as Harman International, a division of Samsung; LG; Hisense; TCL; Bang & Olufsen; Platin Audio; and others, the company delivers immersive wireless sound experiences for high-definition content, including movies and video, music, sports, gaming/esports, and more. WiSA Technologies, Inc. is a founding member of WiSA™ (the Wireless Speaker and Audio Association) whose mission is to define wireless audio interoperability standards as well as work with leading consumer electronics companies, technology providers, retailers, and ecosystem partners to evangelize and market spatial audio technologies driven by WiSA Technologies, Inc. The company is headquartered in Beaverton, OR with sales teams in Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and California.

 
About WiSA, LLC
 
WiSA® educates, evangelizes and promotes solutions for spatial audio in the home. Working in collaboration with technology developed by WiSA Technologies, Inc., WiSA Association engages with leading consumer electronics companies, technology providers, retailers, and ecosystem partners to make immersive audio an experience everyone can enjoy. WiSA, LLC - the Wireless Speaker and Audio Association - is a wholly owned subsidiary of WiSA Technologies, Inc. For more information about WiSA, please visit: www.wisatechnologies.com.

 
Ashley McMurray, Dittoe PR for WiSA Association, ashley@dittoepr.com
 WiSA Association enters CEDIA Expo 2023 with new wireless multichannel technology and a growing roster of WiSA-enabled speakers, TVs and projectors. 
Ashley McMurray, Dittoe PR for WiSA Association, ashley@dittoepr.com
