Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Rachel Center, 
                              
              Nina Bradley, 
                              
              Jason R. Rich
 
    Edited By
                        
              Fox Van Allen
 
Updated on:  July 4, 2024 / 3:41 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Have you seen all the new features bundled into the latest refrigerators, ranges, dishwashers, microwaves, washers and dryers? With all of the most popular appliance brands hosting Fourth of July sales this long holiday weekend, now's the perfect time to upgrade the appliances in your kitchen and laundry room with more energy- and time-efficient equipment.       Our in-house shopping experts have been scouring the shopping landscape to discover some amazing deals you can take advantage of right now. Many retailers are offering bundle deals, where you can save more on appliances when you buy more.      To help you narrow your search, we've rounded up a selection of discounts we found from our picks of the best dishwashers, best washers and dryers, best fridges and best ranges of 2024.       Don't pay full price for your home appliance makeover: All major appliance retailers and brands are throwing huge Fourth of July sales that you can shop this weekend.        To help narrow your search for the ultimate Fourth of July appliance deals, here are some of our top sale-priced appliance picks.      Samsung just dropped a major new member of its Bespoke line of appliances -- a state-of-the-art washer and dryer combo that's so smart, that it uses artificial intelligence to sense what you're washing and adjust accordingly. Even better, you can control it all through your smartphone, via the SmartThings app. And because this is a washer-and-dryer combo, you no longer need to move your laundry from the washer to a dryer. Just load up the machine, press a few buttons and the combo unit washes and dries your clothes.      As an incentive to order this cutting-edge appliance from Samsung's website before the Fourth of July, the price has temporarily been reduced from $3,299 to just $1,679 -- that's an instant savings of $1,620. Alternatively, finance this washer/dryer combo for just $70 per month for 24 months.      Plus, Samsung is throwing in free installation. Meanwhile, if you have an old appliance to trade in, you could receive up to $150 in additional instant credit toward the purchase of the Bespoke AI Laundry Combo. And if you're a student, educator, active military, first responder, veteran, government employee or an employee of a participating company, you could save even more by taking advantage of the Samsung Offer Program.      One of MayTag's highest-end, stainless steel refrigerators -- with 24.7 cubic feet of space -- is now on sale at Best Buy for $620 off its usual $2,520 price, so you'll pay just $1,900.      This fridge offers fingerprint-resistant stainless steel doors, simple electronic controls, two FreshLock crispers, three adjustable half-width shelves, three adjustable gallon door bins and plenty of other convenient features. There's also an automatic defrost feature, filtered water dispenser and ice maker, plus bright LED interior lighting.      On Best Buy's website, this bestselling fridge has earned a 4.4 average star rating, based on 600+ reviews. If you don't want to purchase this appliance outright, you can finance it for just $79 per month for 24 months.      This sleek-looking dishwasher from KitchenAid comes with three racks and can run multiple dish cycles that enable it to effectively clean large and extra-dirty loads. One of the features we like about this dishwasher is the FreeFlex third rack. Located at the top of the dishwasher, the rack angles downward to accommodate mugs, cups and small bowls, in addition to cutlery.         We also really like the specialized cycles, including "tough" for really soiled dishes, the express wash cycle (which is great if you need dishes cleaned quickly) and ProWash, a smart cycle that adapts its cleaning techniques by sensing what type of load it's working with.        This dishwasher has a 4.5-star rating on Best Buy. One customer wrote, "We have had our dishwasher for a few months now and we absolutely love it. The third rack is perfect for our sippy cup nipples and lids. I haven't had any issues with our dishes not being clean. It has a ton more space than our old one. Definitely recommend!"        Get it for $950 now at Best Buy, reduced from $1,215.        This Bespoke model refrigerator has one of the largest Family Hub displays, compared to other Samsung models. It takes full advantage of a whopping 32-inch touchscreen screen. With the Family Hub, you can pull up your calendar, write notes, see inside your fridge, and if you have a Ring doorbell, see who is at your front door. It'll even display your entire family's schedule.       Like other Samsung refrigerators, the Bespoke counter depth flex refrigerator comes with a dual beverage center and ice maker. Use your smartphone and the SmartThings app to help you monitor your refrigerator's energy usage and more.      You can get this Samsung refrigerator for $3,599, a savings of $1,400. It's eligible for Samsung's Bespoke bundle offer that'll get you an extra $100 off two appliances, $250 off three or $500 off four. Plus, you can now add two years of Samsung Care warranty coverage for just $1 extra (a savings of $170).        This washer (5.3 cu ft.) and dryer (7.6 cu ft.) set have settings that make it easy to quickly get your laundry clean. The speed setting allows you to complete a load in less than an hour, and the steam cleaning option in the washer and dryer helps with getting rid of stains and removing light wrinkles from clothing.       There's also a self-clean setting, saving you time from having to routinely clean the appliances yourself. Another feature we like about this washer and dryer is that you can set schedules and get alerts when loads are done on your smartphone with the SmartThings app.      Right now, you can purchase this set for $1,571 or finance it for $65 per month for 24 months (interest-free).        Unlike other dishwashers that only come in stainless steel, the Whirlpool large-capacity dishwasher allows you to choose between stainless steel, black stainless steel, white, black and biscuit (a light beige).        The dishwasher comes with three racks and cycles such as normal wash, quick wash and heavy wash. There's also a smart sensor cycle that determines the load type based on soil level, as well as a sanitizing rinse option and heated dry option to add onto cycles. You can schedule cycles for up to 24 hours in the future -- a great money-saving feature if your utility company offers time-of-day pricing.        This whirlpool model has a 4.5-star rating on Best Buy. One reviewer wrote, "Quiet and clean! Does its job so good you can't even hear it! Deluxe dishwashing experience!" Another customer said, "Installed [it] myself, was super easy. Has a ton of space and is a huge upgrade from the standard that came with our home. Color (black stainless) is great."         Regularly $840, this top-rated dishwasher just got a new price cut at Best Buy. Get it for $630 now, ahead of Fourth of July.        With the Samsung Flex Duo 6.3 cu ft. dual oven, you can cook two dishes at two different temperatures at the same time. You can preheat the oven and change cooking times from your phone with the SmartThings app, or by voice control with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant or Samsung Bixby.        The oven has a dial so you can easily choose your cooking mode, including air frying. The range comes with four standard burners, plus an elongated middle burner designed for griddle pans. We like that the knobs illuminate when the range is on -- it makes a good visual safety reminder.        Take advantage of this Fourth of July deal and save $1,330 off this Samsung smart range. The range comes with free shipping and free returns (if returned within 15 days of receipt). You can also finance this range for $78 per month for 24 months, or purchase it outright for $1,862. If you choose to trade in an old appliance, you can get an additional $150 off this new one.      This popular Samsung washer (5.4 cu ft.) and dryer (7.4 cu ft.) set is one of the most affordable Samsung laundry duos you can buy. But don't be misled by the low sale price, these are great machines.        With so much room inside, you can fill these appliances up with clothes, making this set a great option for large families. In addition to plenty of space, the washer comes with a built-in water faucet that helps with spot-treating stains. The washer's lid closes softly, preventing banging every time you have to open and close it.      The dryer offers even more space than the washer (two extra cubic feet to be exact) and comes with an internal drum light for easy viewing. Like the washer, it can be connected to the SmartThings app, which can help you remotely control laundry cycles and troubleshoot problems.        Both gas and electric dryers are available. For each old appliance you trade-in, you can get $150 in bonus trade-in credit.      This Samsung smart range (6.3 cu ft.) comes with four induction cooktops of varying sizes, making it compatible with big and small pots and pans. On one end of the range, you could easily fit an eight-quart stockpot, while the other side could be used for sautéing with a 10-inch cast iron skillet. If you're looking to replace your old gas range with an induction cooktop, this is the one to buy.        Other features include an air frying mode, a fingerprint-resistant exterior finish and wireless remote control of the appliance using the SmartThings mobile app. There are illuminated range knobs and imitation flames around each burner to signal when they are on.         When you purchase this range at Samsung, you also get free shipping, free returns and an extended two-year warranty for just $1 more.       Rachel Center is a writer with more than eight years of experience creating lifestyle content for brands such as Better Homes & Gardens, Real Simple and Apartment Therapy. 
          These deals won't last long.
         
          Check yourself out in one of the best floor mirrors of 2024.
         
          These robot vacuums from Lefant, Shark and more will keep your floors clean. But they won't break the bank.
         
          Discover the best outdoor patio furniture sets for all budgets at Wayfair, Amazon, Walmart and more.
         
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          A commission found that the Army Reserves and local police missed chances to intervene and potentially stop the deadliest shootings in Maine history.
         
          Mike Lynch, an icon of British entrepreneurship, is one of six people missing after his luxury yacht sank during a violent storm.
         
          Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York made her primetime Democratic National Convention debut.
         
          Top-ranked tennis player Jannik Sinner tested positive twice for a banned anabolic steroid in March.
         
          Improper installation of electrical component in affected cars could expose it to water, raising risk of "thermal event," the recall states.
         
          Mike Lynch, an icon of British entrepreneurship, is one of six people missing after his luxury yacht sank during a violent storm.
         
          Improper installation of electrical component in affected cars could expose it to water, raising risk of "thermal event," the recall states.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to fly domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          "Those police officers responded perfectly, and we've got body cam footage to prove it," Chicago Police Supt. Larry Snelling said of the response to the breach.
         
          Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York made her primetime Democratic National Convention debut.
         
          "We don't tell you enough that you are the love of our lives and the life of our love," Ashley Biden said of her father at the first night of the DNC.
         
          Stephanie Grisham, a former White House press secretary under the Trump administration, will speak at the DNC this week.
         
          Democrats from across the country are returning for Day 2 of the Democratic National Convention as the party continues to rally around its new ticket.
         
          The World Health Organization declared an international health emergency over the spread of mpox in Africa, but says it's not the next coronavirus.
         
          Medical aid in death is legal in 10 states and the District of Columbia. But only Oregon and Vermont explicitly allow out-of-state people who are terminally ill to die with assistance there.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Mike Lynch, an icon of British entrepreneurship, is one of six people missing after his luxury yacht sank during a violent storm.
         
          Top-ranked tennis player Jannik Sinner tested positive twice for a banned anabolic steroid in March.
         
          King Charles visits the English town of Southport, where 3 young girls were killed in a stabbing attack, a day after Taylor Swift met 2 survivors.
         
          The World Health Organization declared an international health emergency over the spread of mpox in Africa, but says it's not the next coronavirus.
         
          President Biden says Hamas is "backing away" from a cease-fire proposal as Palestinian officials accuse Israel of bombing a school in Gaza.
         
          Psychic medium and New York Times bestselling author Matt Fraser joins "CBS Mornings" to discuss his new book, "Don't Wait Till You're Dead: Spirits' Advice from the Afterlife."
         
          Los Lonely Boys, the Texas trio known for their Grammy-winning hit "Heaven," return with their first album in over a decade, "Resurrection."
         
          The New York Times is celebrating the tenth anniversary of its popular Mini Crossword, a bite-sized version of the classic puzzle. For the past decade, Joel Fagliano has been the mastermind behind the Mini, crafting it daily for the Times' website and app. Fagliano joins "CBS Mornings" to discuss his journey.
         
          King Charles visits the English town of Southport, where 3 young girls were killed in a stabbing attack, a day after Taylor Swift met 2 survivors.
         
          Los Lonely Boys, the Texas brothers known for their Grammy-winning hit "Heaven," talk to Omar Villafranca about the close bond that shapes their "Texican rock 'n' roll" sound.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          One of the former Minneapolis police officers convicted in the murder of George Floyd has been released from custody, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
         
          The parents of Dimitrios Pagourtzis, a former student accused of killing 10 people at a high school near Houston in 2018, don't bear financial responsibility for the shooting, a jury decided.
         
          Chrystul Kizer, who said she was legally allowed to a kill a man because he was sexually trafficking her, was sentenced to 11 years in prison after pleading guilty to a reduced count of reckless homicide.
         
          Alabama's governor has set a Nov. 21 execution date for what is scheduled to be the nation's third death sentence carried out by nitrogen gas.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Vice President Kamala Harris is headed to Wisconsin Tuesday as the Democratic National Convention enters its second day in Chicago. Wisconsin remains a key battleground state in the 2024 presidential election. CBS News campaign reporter Nidia Cavazos reports.
         
          The second day of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago will include speeches by former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama. CBS News Minnesota's Caroline Cummings looks ahead to Day 2 of programming at the DNC, and CBS News' Roxana Saberi has more on protests outside of the convention.
         
          Israel says it recovered the bodies of six people taken hostage by Hamas on Oct. 7, 2023. This comes as cease-fire talks continue in the Middle East and the war rages on in the Gaza Strip. Wyre Davies with BBC News, a CBS News partner, has more.
         
          Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo is attending the Democratic National Convention in her capacity as former governor of Rhode Island and joins CBS News with more on the state of the economy and how Vice President Kamala Harris would take on rising costs.
         
          Schools in Methuen, Massachusetts, and other parts of the U.S. are banning the use of cellphones during class time. Eight states so far have passed laws or issued some sort of policy to curb phone use. Jessica Saum, an elementary school teacher and fellow at the Association of American Educators, joins CBS News with more.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.