With the Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 (starting at $1,299; $1,549 as tested) gaming laptop, Lenovo took its Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Gen 8 laptop and gave it a generous trim. Effectively, Lenovo slashed some off the sides, squeezing it all down into a thinner, lighter package while keeping the big display and brilliant keyboard. Plus, souped-up Nvidia GeForce RTX 40 Series graphics make this laptop a joy to game on, putting up fierce competition for other laptops in its price range. In fact, this slimmer Lenovo is close in capability to laptops costing hundreds more, like the Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED (2023) and Origin EON16-S. For that, we give the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 our Editors' Choice award for midrange gaming laptops. The Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 borrows from the Legion formula seen on the Lenovo Legion Pro 5 Gen 8 and the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i Gen 8, but with some tweaks. It still has an anodized aluminum display lid, but it keeps the price down with a hard plastic casing for the lower chassis. All the same, it feels thoroughly robust, with minimal flex. While most Legion Pro models have sides that flare out near the back, the Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 keeps it tight. The rear exhaust, also, does not protrude as much as it previously did.  All of the trimmings helped Lenovo shrink the Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 down to 5.17 pounds and just 0.92 inch thick and 14.16 inches wide, though it's still just as deep as the Legion Pro 5 Gen 8, at 10.25 inches. While Lenovo has “Slim” in the name, it's not outdoing rivals on that front, as the recent Gigabyte Aorus 15 BMF measured in at just 0.82 inch thick. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 also includes thin rubber feet on the bottom that add a hair of thickness, which also reduce the ability to slide it into especially tight laptop sleeves. The trade-off is that those rubber feet do an excellent job holding the laptop in place on your desk or lap. Despite the trimming, Lenovo hasn’t cut much in the way of features and ports here. The left side of the laptop includes two USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C ports with DisplayPort 1.4 support (one also capable of 140-watt power delivery) and a headset jack. The capabilities here are decent, but it would have been better to see the new USB4 ports for the increased bandwidth. The right side includes a full-size SD card reader—a major get for creative users and a feature not even seen on the beefier Legion Pro 5 Gen 8 or Legion Pro 7i Gen 8. You'll also find a switch to disable the webcam. Of course, the back edge includes ports as well, where you’ll find two USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A ports, an Ethernet jack, and a full-size HDMI port with a peak throughput of 8K at 30Hz. Lenovo also includes its proprietary AC power port on this back edge. With this handy selection of ports on the back, the laptop is simple to set up at a desk without a ton of visible wire clutter. All of the rear ports are labeled along the top of the laptop as well, so they’re easy to find without spinning the laptop around. When you don’t want wires, you can enjoy a fast wireless connection with Wi-Fi 6E support. Lenovo didn’t make sacrifices to the keyboard to get the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 slimmer. It’s still the poppy, large keyboard found on the other Legion models. That’s exciting news if you want a usable number pad. It’s even better news if you hate the cramped little arrow keys found on many laptops or the shrunken right Shift key found on many gaming laptops. Lenovo’s solution is just to shift the arrow keys down below the rest of the keyboard, allowing them to remain large. The isolation makes them easier to use, as well. The keyboard has four-zone RGB lighting, and Lenovo actually lists it as spill-resistant, though I was hesitant to test that. Above the keyboard, Lenovo pulled a similar move to what I saw on the Acer Predator Helios Neo 16, which has a speaker-style grille above the keyboard but actually uses it for air intake. It’s the same for the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8, which has down-firing speakers at the front corners of the laptop. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 is available in two configurations. The model tested (number 16APH8) has an MSRP of $1,549 and includes an AMD Ryzen 7 7840HS CPU with 16GB of DDR5 memory. It packs an Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 with 8GB of dedicated VRAM. This model will come with 1TB of storage, though our test unit only had 512GB. The display on this version has a 2,560-by-1,600-pixel resolution, a 165Hz refresh rate, and an sRGB color coverage rating of 100%.  Lenovo’s cheaper configuration comes out to $1,299 and drops the CPU to an AMD Ryzen 5 7640HS, swaps out to an RTX 4050 with 6GB of VRAM, and lowers storage to 512GB. This unit also sees a big display downgrade, using a 1,920-by-1,200 panel with a slower 144Hz refresh rate and much lower color coverage.  Regardless of configuration, you’ll get a 16-inch display from this laptop, and Lenovo significantly trims the bottom bezel to keep it more in line with the side and top bezels. The display attaches to a fairly sturdy hinge that keeps the screen from jiggling too much after positioning it. The webcam on the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 may be a 1080p one, but it feels like a name-only upgrade to the common 720p options found on most laptops. The image is soft and looks rather blocky even in bright lighting conditions. Without Windows Hello facial recognition or a fingerprint scanner, you’ll be signing into this machine with a password or PIN. Using this laptop's keyboard, I was able to get my typing up to 113 words per minute with 100% accuracy measured in Monkeytype, though it took more concentration than I’d like. The keys put up stiff resistance, making for consistent and tactile typing, but they require more care to ensure they actually depress. In particular, that stiffness makes hitting the same key in rapid succession slightly trickier.  These keycaps don’t feel quite as dished as some of Lenovo’s other laptops, presenting more potential to go off the edge of a keycap without feeling it. For any minor nitpicks I have around typing, though, the quibbles are more than balanced out by the standard arrangement of the number pad and the full-size, offset arrow keys, which all make editing text and data entry significantly smoother. Lenovo’s touchpad is nothing special. My fingers glide across the surface with little resistance, though pressing to click has no particularly satisfying tactility. The surface feels a little small given the space available below the keyboard, but shrinking the touchpad's potential width to make room for bigger arrow keys feels like the right move, ultimately. Again, the 16-inch display on the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 scores big points. Its high resolution, modest brightness, anti-glare finish, smooth refresh rate, and color all make for pleasurable viewing in a variety of situations. When you are working on it, it provides substantial space for multitasking and easy visibility in most conditions. As for watching movies, the colors provide a more lively picture than most budget gaming laptops. Finally, the panel's high refresh rate provides visual smoothness while gaming. G-Sync support also helps avoid tearing—something that’s not always a given on gaming laptops. The speakers don't provide quite as big an experience as the display. They pump out a modest volume that suffices in quiet scenarios, but they don't overpower much background noise and lack substantial bass. Lenovo puts a few extra bits of software on the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 that don't come standard with Windows 11. Lenovo Vantage provides necessary controls over the hardware of the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8, and the Nahimic panel enables more control over sound. X-Rite Color Assistant (for adjusting screen tone) and Legion Arena (for launching games and tweaking hardware settings) are the only installs that don’t feel entirely necessary. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 fits neatly into the midrange with a competent set of components for the price—even leaving room to tune up the GPU by 10W. Of course, we see no shortage of machines vying for dominance in that midrange space. The MSI Stealth 14 Studio takes a similar tack packing in mid-to-high-end hardware at a modest price while going for a compact build—but smaller than the Legion Slim 5 Gen 8, to be sure. Some opt for cheaper designs so they can pack higher-power components without compromising on price, as is the case with the MSI Katana 15 B13V, which includes an RTX 4070 for the price. Meanwhile, you also have options like the Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED (2023) and Origin EON16-S, which raise their prices to include more powerful components. We run the same general productivity benchmarks across both mobile and desktop systems. Our first test is UL's PCMark 10, which simulates a variety of real-world productivity and office workflows to measure overall system performance and also includes a storage subtest for the primary drive. Our other three benchmarks focus on the CPU, using all available cores and threads, to rate a PC's suitability for processor-intensive workloads. Maxon's Cinebench R23 uses that company's Cinema 4D engine to render a complex scene, while Geekbench 5.4 Pro from Primate Labs simulates popular apps ranging from PDF rendering and speech recognition to machine learning. Finally, we use the open-source video transcoder HandBrake 1.4 to convert a 12-minute video clip from 4K to 1080p resolution (lower times are better). Finally, we run PugetBench for Photoshop by workstation maker Puget Systems, which uses the Creative Cloud version 22 of Adobe's famous image editor to rate a PC's performance for content creation and multimedia applications. It's an automated extension that executes a variety of general and GPU-accelerated Photoshop tasks ranging from opening, rotating, resizing, and saving an image to applying masks, gradient fills, and filters. Any score above 4,000 points in PCMark 10’s productivity benchmark is a telling sign that the machine will hold up well in everyday office work. A score of more than 5,000 is a sign of excellence. For gaming laptops, this barrier is usually easy to break, thanks to their powerful internals, as we saw clearly here with each machine past the 7,000-point mark. For everyday computing, any of these products be more than enough for some time to come. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 didn't blow away the competition here, but it performed respectably. While it came in with a surprising victory in PCMark 10’s productivity test, its eight-core Ryzen 7 7840HS processor simply couldn't keep up with the higher-performing, 14-core Raptor Lake CPUs in the Gigabyte, Origin, and MSI Stealth laptops. However, the Legion Slim 5 pulled ahead of the MSI Katana 15’s 10-core Intel Core i7-13620H across the board, showing that core count isn’t all that it takes to win.  While these tests showed a CPU shortfall in the most demanding tasks, the reality is that all of these systems have performance to spare when it comes to everyday computing tasks. And Lenovo’s small performance deficit here is more than balanced out by how far its price is below the laptops that beat it. While the storage in the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 also performed the worst in this group, it’s reassuring to see Lenovo didn’t completely skimp here, as some budget gaming laptops opt for much lower-performing storage that doesn’t even break the 2,000-point mark. For gaming laptops and other mobile gaming hardware, we run both synthetic and real-world gaming benchmarks. The former includes two DirectX 12 gaming simulations from UL's 3DMark, Night Raid (more modest, suitable for systems with integrated graphics) and Time Spy (more demanding, suitable for gaming rigs with discrete GPUs). Another part of that gauntlet is the cross-platform GPU benchmark GFXBench 5, which we use to gauge OpenGL performance. These GFXBench tests are rendered offscreen to accommodate different native display resolutions; more frames per second (fps) means higher performance. Our real-world gaming testing comes from the in-game benchmarks of F1 2021, Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, and Rainbow Six Siege. These three games—all benchmarked at 1080p resolution—represent simulation, open-world action-adventure, and competitive/esports shooter games, respectively. Valhalla and Siege are run twice (Valhalla at Medium and Ultra quality, Siege at Low and Ultra quality), while F1 2021 is run once at Ultra quality settings and, for Nvidia GeForce RTX-based systems, a second time with Nvidia’s performance-boosting DLSS anti-aliasing turned on. The Slim shined in the graphics and gaming tests, showing off the potency of its design. Keep in mind that the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 was running an RTX 4060—a GPU that should ostensibly underperform next to the RTX 4070 found in the MSI Katana 15, Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED, and Origin EON16-S. It’s always fascinating to see Lenovo’s powerful cooling and power budget help it land wins in comparison. Lenovo wasn't near the top for 3DMark’s Time Spy test, but it was a close race, with the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 almost matching the MSI Katana 15 and Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 kept a tidy gap between itself and the MSI Stealth 14 Studio, demonstrating the difference a bigger chassis and more cooling can make when running the same parts. As expected, the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8’s ability to keep up in synthetic benchmarks with systems that are more powerful on paper continued to play out in actual games. Despite running a more powerful CPU and GPU combo, the Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED fell behind the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 in every one of our gaming benchmarks. Why?  Because the Aero is focused on compactness and primarily creator workloads, its RTX 4070 GPU has a limited amount of total graphics power, or TGP, of 105W (compared with its 115W max), whereas the RTX 4060 inside the Legion Slim 5 is set to 125W, which is actually 10 more than suggested by Nvidia for the RTX 4060. This sees what should be a superior GPU in the Aero throttled from its full potential, while the graphics chip inside the Legion Slim 5, a technically lower-class GPU, is able to punch above its weight. Though the MSI Katana 15 generally had the edge, it's also set at 105W (not 115W), and so the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 similarly kept the race tight. That difference was further highlighted in the margins between the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 and MSI Stealth 14 Studio. In a similar situation to the Gigabyte Aero, the MSI Stealth 14 Studio has a throttled GPU...all the way down to 90W. Despite using the same graphics chip in name, this difference allowed the Legion to outpace it in F1 2021 and Assassin’s Creed Valhalla. MSI only caught a break in more CPU-bound gaming scenarios, as we saw in our Rainbow Six Siege test at 1080p Low. Lenovo’s internals are also a decent match for the 2,560-by-1,600 display. The system easily continued to run F1 2021 and Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla at playable frame rates of more than 70fps at this higher resolution. The laptop showed promise for esports as well, running Rainbow Six Siege at an average of 155fps at 1600p. Curiously, the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8's results in Rainbow Six Siege didn't parallel the other benchmarks. The CPU appears to be a limiting factor. Switching the game to run with the Vulkan API can unlock some extra performance, helping make back some of the ground that the Slim lost here. We evaluate the battery life of laptops by running a repeatable test starting each machine from fully charged, turning off Wi-Fi and keyboard backlighting, and playing a locally stored 720p video (the open-source Blender movie Tears of Steel) with Windows display brightness set to 50% and audio volume to 100% until the system quits.  Additionally, we measure key display metrics using a Datacolor SpyderX Elite monitor calibration sensor and its software to analyze the display's color saturation—what percentage of the sRGB, Adobe RGB, and DCI-P3 color gamuts or palettes the screen can show—and its brightness levels in nits (candelas per square meter) when set to 50% and 100% brightness. Lenovo continues to deliver value in the display and battery departments. Its 16-inch display has a sharp resolution and fast refresh rate that are matched by an admirable color gamut that makes for more satisfying visuals. While the display wasn't terribly bright at 346 nits max, the anti-glare finish helps for easier visibility. The screen is also a large part of what sets the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 apart from other budget competitors like MSI's Katana 15, which uses a dismal display in comparison, lacking color, brightness, size, and resolution next to the Slim 5 Gen 8's. The Gigabyte Aero 16 OLED and MSI Stealth 14 Studio show their nature as machines geared toward creators first and gamers second, as they have substantially broader color coverage and run brighter. Particularly, the Aero allows for a 4K OLED display, enabling stunning contrast and clarity at the cost of a slower refresh rate. As for battery life, netting a little more than 6 hours is respectable for a gaming laptop, especially one with so large a screen. It’s worth noting that Lenovo runs its laptop displays especially dimly when set to 50% brightness, so it conserves a lot of energy while dramatically reducing visibility. It also has an 80Wh battery, so its narrow triumph over the MSI Katana 15 (which has only a 53.5Wh battery) is not so impressive. Still, it's a decent showing next to the MSI Stealth 14 Studio, which couldn’t even break 3.5 hours with a 72Wh battery, likely due to its bright display. The Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 acknowledges that a gaming laptop doesn’t have to be as thick as possible and can still ensure adequate cooling when the muscles need flexing. To this end, in the Slim 5 Gen 8, it finds a neat balance of refined, trimmed-down design that still lets its internals cruise (even above their max power ratings). Lenovo then added in some high-end build quality with an altogether excellent keyboard that’s useful for both work and play. At its retail price, the Lenovo Legion Slim 5 Gen 8 already wins our Editors' Choice award for midrange gaming laptops. And given how often Lenovo discounts its gaming laptops over their lifetimes, this deal might just get even better over time. Mark Knapp has covered tech for most of the past decade, keeping readers up to speed on the latest developments and going hands-on with everything from phones and computers to e-bikes and drones to separate the marketing from the reality. Catch him on Twitter at @Techn0Mark or on PCMag, IGN, TechRadar, T3, Business Insider, and Reviewed. PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. PCMag PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. As an Amazon Associate, we earn from qualifying purchases.