
Medindia »
News »
Medical Gadgets »
 Surgical Robotics Market Size to Hit $30.7 Billion by 2030             
Robotics-assisted surgeries have become more popular in the operating room in the last five years, driving the robust growth of the surgical robotics market. Due to higher capital expenditures, the surgical robotics market is more vulnerable during economic recessions compared with other healthcare sectors.
Despite this, the market for robotic surgical systems and accessories is set to reach $30.7 billion globally by 2030, registering a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10% from 2022 to 2030, estimates GlobalData, a leading data and analytics company.

Robotics To Remove Heart Blocks Introduced In IndiaFor the first time, a robotic system that assists in percutaneous coronary interventions has been introduced in India.
‘The total volume of surgical robotic systems in the US decreased by approximately 27% from 2021 to 2022, mainly due to the economic slowdown.’        
Impact of the Economic Downturn on the Surgical Robotics Market
During an economic downturn, it is more difficult for healthcare providers to obtain financing for surgical robotics systems. The acquisition of a robotic surgical system is a major capital investment for healthcare facilities.
The average cost of a surgical robotic system in 2022 was around $1 million plus an additional annual service fee. The high cost can limit the ability of hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers to invest in new surgical robotics technology.
Depending on the lifespan of capital equipment, surgical centers may not replace capital equipment or buy additional units in a given year, but they continuously purchase disposables to meet the demands of high-volume procedures.

Stroke Survivors Can Now Walk Faster and Farther: Here's How
Soft robotic exosuits can make a real difference in the lives of many stroke survivors, by improving their walking speed and distance. The exosuit weighs less than 5 kgs and targets mainly the limbs of stroke survivors.
As a result, robotic accessories occupy most of the total market. Hospitals that have robotic systems generally prefer to have more robot-assisted procedures to recoup their investment in the new equipment.
During economic recessions, consumers may cancel or delay non-essential procedures and services, leading to a slight reduction in demand for surgical robotics in the short term. This causes a slower growth rate for the robotic accessories market.Advertisement     

Soft Robot Sans Batteries and Circuits to Revolutionize MedicineHarvard University scientists develop soft robot that have no batteries or circuits and run on hydrogen peroxide as fuel, revolutionizing medicine.
GlobalData observed around 5% growth in the robotic accessories market from 2021 to 2022, compared with 30% growth from 2020 to 2021. Economic downturns can also create a demand for more cost-effective solutions in healthcare.
This could lead to increased interest in surgical robotics systems, as they offer greater efficiency and cost savings compared to traditional surgical methods. As the underlying demand is still very strong, GlobalData expects the surgical robotics market to keep growing through 2030.Advertisement     

Surgical Robotics Market is Anticipated to Grow In IndiaWith a rise in chronic diseases amid an ever-increasing elderly population, the market for surgical robotics in India is anticipated to grow.
Source-Medindia
             Disclaimer - All information and content on this site are for information and educational purposes only. The information should not be used for either diagnosis or treatment or both for any health related problem or disease. Always seek the advice of a qualified physician for medical diagnosis and treatment. Full Disclaimer Advertise with us | Medindia Copyright | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © All Rights Reserved 1997 - 2024