On May 6, most channels are airing footage of the King's Coronation. However, there will be a lot of other options for those who aren't interested King Charles' Coronation is quickly approaching and almost every channel on television is airing coverage of the glitzy event.  The event, which is taking place on Saturday, May 6, is a symbolic ceremony where a sovereign is crowned. King Charles III will pledge to be 'defender of the faith' in the oath before being anointed, blessed and consecrated the Archbishop and accepting the orb and sceptres. It will start early in the morning and go on well into the afternoon but most TV channels will be airing footage of the royal family all day.  The BBC, Sky, ITV, and more will be covering the coronation.  However, not everyone wants to spend their entire day tuning in to watch the event, which last happened in 1953. Thankfully, Channel 4 has offered alternative viewing on the day. What else is there to watch during the coronation?  Instead of airing footage of the coronation, Channel 4 have chosen to air "alternative" coverage, which already started earlier this week.  The Windsors and Frankie Boyle's Farewell To The Monarchy kept fans entertained throughout the week.  The comedian, 50, looked at the history of the monarchy with his typical wry humour, while satire.  Channel 4/A&E also provided viewers with the two-part series, Andrew - The Problem Prince. Channel 4 Chief Content Officer, Ian Katz, commented: “Channel 4 exists to provide viewers with an alternative, so as the nation is engulfed by pomp, circumstance and forelock-tugging. "We’ll be offering a rather less reverential slate of programmes including Frankie Boyle’s case against the monarchy and the Windsors’ scabrous satirical take on the Coronation." On the day, fans can watch back-to-back Frasier and The King of Queens. Between 7.55am and 9.50am, viewers can switch to Channel 4 to watch classic 90s sitcom The King of Queens. The popular Kevin James show will air at the same time the guests arrive at Victoria Tower Gardens and until the congregation is seated inside Westminster Abbey. It The King Of Queens isn't for you, Dave will be airing the Red Bull Soapbox Race between 9.20am and 11.20am. Soapbox Racing has people race homemade motorless single-seated vehicles down an inclined raceway. The designs get pretty ridiculous so be sure to tune in to the event which takes place in Lisbon. After the races, they'll be airing back-to-back episodes of Storage Hunters UK. At 10.20am, Gold will be showing two episodes of the classic comedy series Only Fools And Horses. Fan-favourite episodes From Prussia With Love and Miracle in Peckham will be aired. Back on Channel 4 just before midday is Johnny English Strikes Again, starring Rowan Atkinson. The sequel has English coming out of retirement in order to find a mastermind hacker. If you need a dose of sports, the Manchester City vs Leeds United game will be available to watch on Sky Sports from 3pm. They were meant to begin at 12.30pm but moved kick-off due to the coronation. ITV will have mostly returned to regular scheduling after 4pm with The Chase: Celebrity Special airing at 4.50pm.  * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.  Get our daily royal round-up direct to your inbox