Home News Sport What’s On Send your story Subscription More   The first Bordon Soapbox Derby for more than a decade did not disappoint with thousands lining the street for an amazing and amusing spectacle of speed. And in the wake of the spectacular Sunday, July 23 event, organiser Emma Selby of SiGNAL has thanked all those whose hard work over the past year enabled the day to happen. "We would like to thank Gary Newell of Jigsaw Property Maintenance  and Barry Parker of BTE Automotive for all their exceptionally hard work last weekend and in the 12 months running up to the soapbox derby in Bordon," writes Emma.  "Without their hard work and dedication – as well as great attention to detail – the event could not have succeeded.  Interior design expert reveals how to incorporate spring trends into your home  Number of people accessing pandemic debt relief help in Surrey rose by nearly a fifth last year Waverley bucks trend as fewer people accessing pandemic debt relief help Patient 'privileged' to be first to undergo revolutionary new cancer treatment "News of the event’s success has spread up and down the county and the praise being heaped on the management team is very well deserved. "We love that these two well-loved local businessmen met through SiGNAL and created a partnership that went on to give Bordon the best community day we have had in years. "Gary and Barry have been coming along to the SiGNAL business networking meetings every month this year to promote the  soapbox and the business opportunities available on the day and as a result huge numbers of our SiGNAL Community were involved." Just under 20 racers competed on the day, with The Fighting 17 claiming top spot on the podium with a blistering time of 26.02 seconds. The Classic Car Mechanic team were more than a second behind with Mercedes Benz of Farnborough taking bronze with 27.75, much to the chagrin of their driver who spoke of “going for the win” in the minutes before his second run. Although there was the odd scrape, collision and lift-off, the races ran smoothly with organisers estimating the crowds in their thousands.  And while the racing was the main attraction there was plenty more around the town with stalls lining the A325 and live music in The Shed throughout the day. Emma continued: "Big thanks to David Tinson of &Stenball for sponsoring the finish line, and for providing a superb line-up of cars on Gasoline Alley.  "Special mention to Sarah Burch for her amazingly enthusiastic flag waving!  "Thanks also to Rob Fryer of Brandstorm for his help with brand design and for his assistance with banners. "The soapbox derby in Bordon could not have gone ahead without the help of so many people. "Thanks go to Stuart Morrison of RQ for his lively commentary, Glenn Lynch who was also an MC and to SiGNAL’s Gareth Turner for marking the carts.  "Congratulations to both Rylands of Ryland Research for participating in the race and coming 11th – and to Barry Parker for finding the time to race and providing spectacular entertainment with his mega wipeout (ouch!!)  "Huge thanks to Lisa Collyer of YAPO for providing the embroidered merchandise and also for supporting Barry and Gary in the weeks running up to the event. "Lisa was also to be seen marshalling along with Dave Nyss of Real Learning Ltd – goodness knows how many thousands of steps you two clocked up that day!  "Alison Berrisford of ABPT fitness had a stall at the top of the hill showcasing fitness and massage.  "And, of course, the SiGNAL team who hosted the VIP bus too.  "Thanks to all who bought tickets – including our own members Ryan Cutler and Stuart Elsdon. We hope you’ll be back next year! "Back at the Shed, Aly Duff of BackBeat Collective, one of our newest members, was in charge of the music and pretty fine it was too. "Huge thanks also to the team at Whitehill and Bordon Regeneration Company for being chief event sponsors and for participating so enthusiastically on the day. "It was a wonderful day and a real testament to the power of our local business community to get things done – a day Bordon will remember for years. The SiGNAL team are already looking forward to working on the next one – next year, apparently!" More About: Comments Are you missing customers?You could reach more customers with our print and online ad packages. Call now to see how we could help youTel: 01252 725224Email: [email protected] Tindle Newspapers Ltd. Owned or licensed to Tindle Newspapers Ltd.Independent Family-Owned Newspapers · Copyright & Trade Mark Notice & 2013 - 2024 Follow us