Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 DETROIT — The Tigers started hitting in the first inning and simply never stopped on Wednesday night.Twins pitchers allowed 17 hits in a 9-5 loss to Detroit in the third game of the four-game set at Comerica Park. Only one Twins pitcher, Emilio Pagán, escaped unscathed, throwing a clean sixth inning. But before and after Pagán, it was a tough night for starter Bailey Ober and reliever Jordan Balazovic.“Offensively, pitching-wise, defensively, we kind of got outplayed today,” manager Rocco Baldelli said. “ … We’ve got to play better than we did today. Overall, our approaches at the plate were just fine. They weren’t as good as they needed to be. We needed to be better defensively. And pitch better. It wasn’t our best outing today.”Right out of the gate, Ober had a turbulent first inning, walking a batter and allowing a single. Two runs — though just one earned — later scored on Kerry Carpenter’s single, which got past right fielder Max Kepler.After the Twins took a lead in the top of the second, Ober gave it back, allowing four hits and two runs in the second inning. The starter would give up another run in the fifth on Spencer Torkelson’s first home run of the game. The former No. 1 overall pick hit another off Balazovic in his next at-bat in the seventh.“I just felt like I was missing too much of the plate,” Ober said. “Whenever I got into the zone, I was missing middle and they were hitting balls where our guys weren’t, landing a lot of singles, and then late in the game, they started hitting some stuff a little harder.”For Ober, it was the second start in his past three games in which he has given up five or more runs after not doing so once in his first 16 starts of the season.Even so, the Twins (60-56) still found themselves in the game for much of the night thanks to a three-run second inning. In between a Carlos Correa home run and Joey Gallo’s first blast since July 17, Ryan Jeffers hit a double, extending his hitting streak to 14 games.

The Twins tacked on a run in the sixth inning to pull within a run but missed out on a chance to tie the game by stranding Willi Castro on third base.After Pagán did his job in the bottom of the sixth, Balazovic couldn’t do the same. The rookie allowed a pair of runs in each of his two innings of work, surrendering six hits in his outing.Those extra runs loomed large as the Twins mounted a late rally in the ninth inning, scoring one run and then loading the bases and bringing the tying run to the plate with a pair of outs for Correa, who struck out to end the game.“It’s a frustrating game, but in actuality, the way the game played out, we were kind of fighting to stay in the game,” Baldelli said. “… They’re making things happen and we didn’t get ourselves completely back in the ballgame. We got it closer, but it felt like we couldn’t get where we needed to be.” Twins pitchers allowed 17 hits in a 9-5 loss to Detroit in the third game of the four-game set at Comerica Park. Only one Twins pitcher, Emilio Pagán, escaped unscathed, throwing a clean sixth inning. But before and after Pagán, it was a tough night for starter Bailey Ober and reliever Jordan Balazovic. “Offensively, pitching-wise, defensively, we kind of got outplayed today,” manager Rocco Baldelli said. “ … We’ve got to play better than we did today. Overall, our approaches at the plate were just fine. They weren’t as good as they needed to be. We needed to be better defensively. And pitch better. It wasn’t our best outing today.” Right out of the gate, Ober had a turbulent first inning, walking a batter and allowing a single. Two runs — though just one earned — later scored on Kerry Carpenter’s single, which got past right fielder Max Kepler. After the Twins took a lead in the top of the second, Ober gave it back, allowing four hits and two runs in the second inning. The starter would give up another run in the fifth on Spencer Torkelson’s first home run of the game. The former No. 1 overall pick hit another off Balazovic in his next at-bat in the seventh. “I just felt like I was missing too much of the plate,” Ober said. “Whenever I got into the zone, I was missing middle and they were hitting balls where our guys weren’t, landing a lot of singles, and then late in the game, they started hitting some stuff a little harder.” For Ober, it was the second start in his past three games in which he has given up five or more runs after not doing so once in his first 16 starts of the season. Even so, the Twins (60-56) still found themselves in the game for much of the night thanks to a three-run second inning. In between a Carlos Correa home run and Joey Gallo’s first blast since July 17, Ryan Jeffers hit a double, extending his hitting streak to 14 games. The Twins tacked on a run in the sixth inning to pull within a run but missed out on a chance to tie the game by stranding Willi Castro on third base. After Pagán did his job in the bottom of the sixth, Balazovic couldn’t do the same. The rookie allowed a pair of runs in each of his two innings of work, surrendering six hits in his outing. Those extra runs loomed large as the Twins mounted a late rally in the ninth inning, scoring one run and then loading the bases and bringing the tying run to the plate with a pair of outs for Correa, who struck out to end the game. “It’s a frustrating game, but in actuality, the way the game played out, we were kind of fighting to stay in the game,” Baldelli said. “… They’re making things happen and we didn’t get ourselves completely back in the ballgame. We got it closer, but it felt like we couldn’t get where we needed to be.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group