For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Growing and caring for a garden is one of the great joys of summer. However, pests are almost inevitable and can cause severe damage to backyard crops like tomatoes, flowers, and fruit trees. While some insects like bees and butterflies serve as beneficial pollinators and can make your plants healthier, others like aphids only harm your plants and leave your yard looking worse for the wear. If you've seen those tell-tale holes in your plants' leaves, you're probably here because you want to learn how to get rid of aphids as quickly as possible. Have no fear: As harmful as these critters can be, an aphid infestation isn't a garden death sentence. Ahead, we'll guide you through how to get rid of aphids and keep them away. We'll also explain the signs to look for to tell if you have them or if you're dealing with another pest. According to the Old Farmer's Almanac, aphids are "small, soft-bodied insects that feed by sucking the nutrient-rich liquids out of plants. In large numbers, they can weaken plants significantly, harming flowers and fruit." The big issue with aphids is that they multiply quickly—one day there might be tens of them, and the next there'll be hundreds. It's exponential. So it's important to get rid of aphids and get an invasion under control before it becomes a full-blown infestation. Because of their small size and nearly clear appearance, aphids are very difficult to see, so it's crucial to look at your garden and plants to figure out if you are struggling with an aphid infestation. These are the best ways to tell if aphids have been eating your plants: Look for misshapen, curling, stunted, or yellowing leaves. Be sure to check the undersides of leaves; aphids love to hide there. Feel the leaves and stems to see if they feel sticky. That's a sign that aphids may have been sipping the sap. When aphids feed on trees, their honeydew can drop onto cars, outdoor furniture, driveways, and so on. Check for black areas on your plants and trees. The honeydew can sometimes encourage a fungal growth called sooty mold, causing branches and leaves to appear black. Note the condition of any flowers and fruit. They can become distorted or deformed due to feeding aphids. Luckily, the best and fastest ways to get rid of aphids instantly are natural and don't require any chemicals. A temporary fix that's great for an isolated plant is to spray it with a strong stream of water. This will dislodge the aphids and send them flying. The aphids usually won't be able to find their way back. Neem oil for plants is one of the best natural ways to kill aphids. Spray or brush the leaves with the oil once a week during an infestation. The oil stops aphids and other pesky insects from feeding on the plants. You can often control aphids by wiping or spraying the leaves of affected plants with a solution of water and a few drops of mild dish soap. Soapy water should be reapplied every two to three days for two weeks. Dusting an affected plants' leaves with diatomaceous earth, or DE for short, is a good way to dehydrate aphids and keep an aphid infestation in check. DE consists of the fossilized skeletons of microscopic single-celled aquatic organisms; it looks like a white powder. Pests don't like to crawl over DE because the bits are very sharp, like walking on broken glass. They get cut, become dehydrated, and slowly die. However, don't apply DE when plants are in bloom, as it will kill the good pests and pollinators such as bees and butterflies as well as unwanted bugs like aphids if they come into contact with it. Always make sure to put DE on plants' leaves only, not the flowers. A chemical insecticide is a very effective method for getting rid of and killing aphids, but it's not the most environmentally friendly or natural option. Insecticides also need to come into direct contact with the aphids to work. You Might Also Like 15 Home Bar Gifts Every Cocktail Enthusiast Will Appreciate 32 Low Light Indoor Plants That Can Survive in the Darkest Corners of Your Home These Are the 50 Best Paint Colors for Your Living Room Advertisement Advertisement AOL AOL AOL Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement