Film reviews Jalyn Hall as Emmett Till and Danielle Deadwyler as Mamie Till Chemistry-free – Michael Ward and Olivia Colman in 'Empire of Light' Till Three Stars In cinemas; Cert 12A That simple title goes a long way. Directed by Chinonye Chukwu, Till acts as both a delicate examination of the murder and legacy of a young black boy named Emmett Till, and the subsequent transformation of his extraordinary mother, Mamie Till-Mobley, from grief-stricken parent to internationally renowned Civil Rights activist. Mamie’s son was barely 14 when he was abducted by armed white men at his great uncle’s house in the middle of the night. The youngster’s so-called crime was that he allegedly flirted with a white female grocer in 1950s Mississippi. It was three days before Emmett’s body was discovered in the Tallahatchie River, his face beaten and broken beyond recognition. Emmett’s lynching caused an uproar, and his devastated mother made international headlines after she held an open-casket funeral and allowed members of the press to photograph and publish images of her son’s mutilated body. “Let the people see what they did to my boy,” said Mamie. These and other events are capably captured in Chukwu’s compassionate biographical drama that, though not without its flaws, stays with you long after the credits roll. We begin in Chicago, Illinois where young Emmett Till (Jalyn Hall), a wide-eyed teenager with his whole life ahead of him, can barely contain his excitement. A summer holiday is just around the corner and Emmett already has his bags packed. His adoring mum, Mamie (Danielle Deadwyler), is happy to see a smile on her boy’s face, but she’s worried about the everyday cruelty and discrimination he might encounter as a young black man in the Jim Crow-era South. The world, she insists, is a different place down there. Emmett nods dutifully and – as he’s travelling without her – assures his concerned mother that he’ll take extra care not to attract attention. She helps him on his way and, as the days pass, Mamie wonders if perhaps she should have accompanied Emmett on his travels. She could never have anticipated the horrors that would be inflicted upon her son in the early hours of August 28, 1955. Chukwu’s film shows Emmett, in the days leading up to his murder, visiting a local grocery store near the field where his extended family pick cotton. The young lad asks for a piece of candy and tells the shopkeeper, a Mrs Carolyn Bryant (Haley Bennett), that she looks like a movie star. She chases him out of the store, and he whistles at her from the street. Mrs Bryant responds by fetching her gun and – later – her husband. We’ve already covered the details of what happened next. Till then folds itself into something resembling a prestige legal drama. The many surrounding players deserve our praise, even if their presence is frequently eclipsed by that of Deadwyler’s towering performance. Sean Patrick Thomas lends solid support as Mamie’s committed partner, Gene Mobley. Whoopi Goldberg (who serves as a co-producer here, alongside James Bond chief, Barbara Broccoli) works hard as Emmett’s inconsolable grandmother. Tosin Cole delivers a strong turn as civil rights activist Medgar Evers, a field secretary for the NAACP who welcomes Mamie’s involvement, believing her story will help highlight the despicable injustices towards black people across America. It’s a busy piece and, as a result, Chukwu’s film – which she co-wrote with Michael Reilly and Emmett Till case expert Keith Beauchamp – stumbles slightly in its hasty, scattershot depiction of Mamie’s activist duties. It’s a tad over-directed, too, and occasionally loses itself with one too many stagey, stylised shots. Indeed, there is something distinctly old-fashioned about this soulful yet disappointingly heavy-handed picture. Quite often, Till plays out like a glossy TV movie, replete with soapy, shallow dialogue, out-of-the-box costumes and an overbearing score. Despite all this, Chukwu’s well-intentioned display does what it’s supposed to. It may not be a remarkable piece of filmmaking, but what matters here is the story, and this undeniably moving account is both educational and essential. Chukwu – writer and director of the 2019 prison drama, Clemency – makes the right call by framing Emmett’s story from the perspective of his devoted mother. Till may be a tad creaky in parts, but Deadwyler’s phenomenal, career-defining central turn keeps us invested. Seek it out.​​​​​​ Chemistry-free – Michael Ward and Olivia Colman in 'Empire of Light' Empire of Light Three stars In cinemas; Cert 15A Between Steven Spielberg’s upcoming The Fabelmans, Damien Chazelle’s Babylon, and this new offering from Sam Mendes, we are in the midst of a glut of releases where the main star is “the magic of cinema” itself. Leaving aside the timing of this and the Oscars’ track record of fetishising films about lights-camera-action, Mendes’s interracial romance portrays the auditorium as a sanctuary of wonder in a drab, unkind world. And perhaps he’s on the money. Unfortunate, then, that Mendes’s ninth feature film swamps this theme under a flat and over-proved romantic drama that too often strains for emotional clout. We’re in a seaside movie theatre in 1980s England. Olivia Colman is sturdy as the troubled manageress whose breakdown is halted when she finds love and connection in a handsome new usher (Michael Ward). Scant on-screen chemistry between the pair is not helped by Ward’s love interest being too thinly sketched. Outside of its comely production values, in fact – Roger Deakins on cinematography, Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross on score – the most tangible fruit on show is Toby Jones’s wizened projectionist. Hilary White A Man Called Otto Three stars In cinemas; Cert 12A Tom Hanks is Otto Anderson, a short-fused, suicidal widower who has decided he hates the world and everyone in it. He is determined to end his own life, but that soon changes with the arrival of new neighbours Marisol (Mariana Treviño) and Tommy (Manuel Garcia-Rulfo). First they need a hand parking their car. Next they come knocking for tools, then a ladder. Eventually Marisol asks Otto to be her driving instructor, and later a babysitter. Might she be his guardian angel? Will she and the other big-hearted inhabitants of Otto’s quirky gated community help restore the spring in our cranky protagonist’s step? Director Marc Forster and writer David Magee steer this bumpy English-language remake of an Oscar-nominated Swedish dramedy (based on a novel, A Man Called Ove, by Fredrik Backman). You might have to look past the tricky tonal shifts and wobbly plot manoeuvres. Hanks elevates proceedings, applying a well-worn brand of loveable, everyman charm to a classic movie grump that just about keeps us on side. An odd yet oddly irresistible display, A Man Called Otto is as predictable as they come, but hey, it passes the time nicely. Chris Wasser Wildcat Four stars Prime Video; No cert So often, stories about people interacting with the natural world reveal far more to us about human nature. Take this documentary from Trevor Frost and Melissa Lesh in which a damaged soul negotiates a tenuous lifeline to recovery through a jungle cat conservation project in the Peruvian Amazon. Harry Turner, a young English veteran of Afghanistan, has found purpose in the wildlife association Hoja Nueva – and in its young US founder Samantha Zwicker, love too. The group rescues ocelots and margays from the black market and rehabilitates them for release back into the wild. One such animal, an orphaned cub named Keanu, becomes Harry’s main focus in life and a salve for the chronic depression and PTSD he now lives with. The rainforest, however, is no fairy tale world, and any joy Harry finds through Keanu is subject to ever-present threats, be they wild or manmade. Needless to say, the rehab requirements of both man and cat begin to align. The interplay of wild splendour, fly-on-the-wall immediacy, and the knife-edge tension of Harry’s mental health stakes gives this a harrowing potency. Hilary White Join the Irish Independent WhatsApp channel Stay up to date with all the latest news