MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS "When defendant calculated plaintiffs' [actual cash value] benefits under the [policy], defendant withheld costs for both the materials and labor required to repair or replace the plaintiffs' residence as depreciation, even though labor does not depreciate in value over time," the complaint said. "Defendant withheld labor costs through its actual cash value calculations as depreciation." February 09, 2023 at 04:54 PM  3 minute read News Litigation Reporter A putative class action was filed against Trumbull Insurance Co. in federal court in Connecticut. The plaintiffs claim that Trumbull withholds costs for materials and labor when calculating cash value payment as depreciation. The plaintiffs are represented by Michael C. Conroy of Hassett & George, J. Brandon McWherter of McWherter Scott & Bobbitt, Erik D. Peterson of Erik Peterson Law Offices, and T. Joseph Snodgrass of Snodgrass Law. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Charles Toutant By Amanda Bronstad By Alex Anteau By Emily Cousins 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder 'If Only We Had Full Staffing': This Legal Sector Is Spread Thin, but Negotiating Higher Rates The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  The New England Legal Awards serves as a testament to the outstanding contributions and achievements made by legal professionals. The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 
                                        RECRUITMENT BONUS Newly hired employees from this recruitment may be eligible to receive bonus payments up to $3,000!*   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE: ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Connecticut Law Tribune now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.