Aug. 7 (UPI) -- The world's first exascale supercomputer may be able to help avoid major disruptions to the nation's power grid, researchers say. A team consisting of experts from multiple institutions developed new software to respond to a variety of grid failures using the Frontier supercomputer this spring. The team was assembled at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, Calif., for the Exascale Computing Project's ExaSGD project. The software, called HiOp, ran the largest simulation of its kind to optimize the power grid's response to failures from weather events, natural disasters and attacks. In a 20-minute process, it was able to help researchers identify safe and cost-effective power grid setpoints for 100,000 grid failures. A power grid setpoint refers to multiple measures of grid performance of conditions such as voltage, frequency and the active level of power. "Because the list of potential power grid failures is large, this problem is very computationally demanding," Cosmin Petra, researcher for LLNL, said in a statement. "The goal of this project was to show that the exascale computers are capable of exhaustively solving this problem in a manner that is consistent with current practices that power grid operators have." The challenges of keeping the grid running effectively are compounded by adapting to new energy sources and the risks of future natural disasters as a result of climate change. Currently a human operator is required to respond to grid failures. When a failure happens, operators attempt to determine the first plans of action to get back up and running within the first 30 minutes to avoid blackouts and widespread outages. "This computational problem may become even more relevant in the future, in the context of extreme climate events," Petra said. "We could use the software stack that ran on Frontier to minimize disruptions caused by hurricanes or wildfires, or to engineer the grid to be more resilient in the longer run under such scenarios, just to give an example." "It is a massive jump in terms of computational power," he added. An exascale supercomputer is a massive computing system capable of executing billions of calculations per second. It is up to 20 times faster than other supercomputers, according to the Department of Energy. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.