
    HBO Max has rebranded as Max in the US. Here are its brand-new titles for launch day.
   Gremlins: Secrets of the Mogwai is a prequel to the movies. HBO Max is now officially Max, the revamped streaming service that merges HBO Max and Discovery Plus' libraries. Today, new movies and shows premiere on the service, including a SmartLess docuseries and a family-friendly Gremlins cartoon. (Shazam! Fury of the Gods isn't totally new, but it's included in the list below, too.) Here's more about what just hit Max on launch day and what's coming in the future. If you stick with the service long enough, you'll eventually catch a new Harry Potter series and Game of Thrones spin-off. Max streams Warner Bros., HBO, Max Originals, DC, HGTV, Food Network, Adult Swim, Cartoon Network, Discovery Channel, TLC, ID and more. Also coming to Max relatively close to launch are Magnolia Network series Silos Baking Competition (May 28), ID docuseries The Curious Case of Natalia Grace (May 29), Sarah Silverman's comedy special (May 27), HBO documentary Being Mary Tyler Moore (May 26) and Reality, an HBO film starring Sydney Sweeney (May 29). Max is the streaming home of HBO, so it isn't leaving Game of Thrones behind. WBD revealed that HBO has ordered a new Game of Thrones prequel series, A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms: The Hedge Knight. The series will be set 100 years before the events of Game of Thrones, when "two unlikely heroes wandered Westeros ... a young, naive but courageous knight, Ser Duncan the Tall, and his diminutive squire, Egg," according to its description.  "Set in an age when the Targaryen line still holds the Iron Throne and the memory of the last dragon has not yet passed from living memory, great destinies, powerful foes, and dangerous exploits all await these improbable and incomparable friends," the log line says.  Harry Potter fans will be able to get invested in a new, multi-season show on Max. Casey Bloys, chairman and CEO of HBO and HBO Max content, said, "Over the course of the next decade … we will once again enter the wondrous world of Harry Potter as a multi-season live action series for the first time." The Max original series will adapt the first seven Harry Potter books and star new actors. A first look at The Penguin and more: Same faces, different places. Rick and Morty: The Anime is coming this year to Max and @adultswim. #StreamOnMax pic.twitter.com/GLs6mgH4lB