There are far more ways to stream video than Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, and Netflix. These are the top streaming services based on price, catalog, features, and more. I’ve been writing and editing technology content for over five years, most recently as part of PCMag's consumer electronics team, though I also spent several years on the software team. Before PCMag, I worked at Neowin.net, Tom’s Guide, and Laptop Mag. I spend too much of my free time reading forums and blogs about audio and photography. In 2013, I started my Ziff Davis career as an intern on PCMag's Software team. Now, I’m an Analyst on the Apps and Gaming team, and I really just want to use my fancy Northwestern University journalism degree to write about video games. I host The Pop-Off, PCMag's video game show. I was previously the Senior Editor for Geek.com. I’ve also written for The A.V. Club, Kotaku, and Paste Magazine. I’m the author of a video game history book, Video Game of the Year, and the reason why everything you know about Street Sharks is a lie. 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Fast internet connections and an abundance of media streaming devices have accelerated the decline of traditional cable. An increasing number of people are cutting the cord in favor of dedicated streaming alternatives (even if there are still some good reasons to keep cable). Streaming services are only growing larger and more numerous, leaving you with an overwhelming number of options. Fortunately, we here at PCMag have thoroughly tested many streaming services, big and small, for our expert reviews. If you're looking to toss some money at a streaming video service, our top picks are a terrific starting point. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 Netflix is the standard-bearer for streaming video services. It hosts an impressive content selection, with new titles exchanged for older ones every month. And then there's its constantly growing library of premier original programming, which outclasses its rivals. Netflix's impressive catalog includes Altered Carbon, Black Mirror, BoJack Horseman, Dead to Me, Mindhunters, Orange Is the New Black, Russian Doll, Stranger Things, The Umbrella Academy, The Witcher, and even original anime. That's in addition to its original movies, such as El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie and Martin Scorsese's The Irishman. Unfortunately, Netflix has lost some top titles recently, such as Friends (to Max) and The Office (to Peacock).  Netflix is a premium service for people willing to pay premium prices. It recently raised the price of its two higher-end subscription plans. The Standard tier, which costs $15.49 per month, unlocks HD content and supports streaming on two devices simultaneously. The top-of-the-line Premium plan costs $22.99 per month. This gives you four concurrent streams and access to 4K content where available. Netflix also offers a cheaper, ad-supported tier for $6.99 per month. Besides lacking premium perks, this budget tier doesn't include every show in Netflix's library. You can download Netflix apps on a variety of devices, including your Chromecast, game console, PC, and tablet. And, yes, you can finally disable the obnoxious auto-playing previews. Other new Netflix features include Screen Lock on Android devices, which prevents unintentional screen taps, and more parental control settings that let you better restrict content and profiles. Alongside Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, and Disney+, Netflix is one of the few streaming services that supports both offline downloads and 4K and HDR streaming (now on Macs, too).  Netflix's DVD mailing service ended on September 29, 2023. Streaming is clearly the company's primary business. Given its diverse streaming options, Hulu is one of the best all-in-one options for cord-cutters. In addition to an extensive library of classic shows and a strong movie selection, Hulu offers a robust live TV option (more than 70 channels of news, sports, and entertainment programming). Still, Hulu trails some top competitors, given its lackluster original content and limited selection of 4K content. Hulu recently added Viacom channels to its lineup, including BET, Comedy Central, MTV, NFL Network, Nickelodeon, and Paramount Network. Hulu is great for anyone seeking streaming convenience without abandoning traditional live TV. Its basic on-demand streaming plan currently costs $7.99 per month, while the ad-free version is $17.99 per month. College students can get Hulu's ad-supported version for $1.99 per month. The Hulu + Live TV plan costs $76.99 per month and combines Hulu's live TV service with the ad-supported streaming plan. In addition, all subscribers now enjoy Enhanced Cloud DVR, increasing the available DVR storage from 50 to 200 hours. You can also add the Unlimited Screens package (it allows an unlimited number of concurrent device streams in your home and up to three outside of it) to your plan for $9.99 per month. NBC's Peacock offers two plans: a Premium tier with 20,000 hours, some live sports, and clips-based channels; and a Premium Plus option that builds upon the Premium tier by removing ads when you stream on-demand titles. Although you can't stream some of NBC's biggest hits on-demand (Friends, Seinfeld), you can watch other popular past and current entries from NBC, such as 30 Rock, Cheers, Chicago Fire, Friday Night Lights, The Office, Parks and Recreation, Saturday Night Live, Will and Grace, Law & Order: SVU, Superstore, and This is Us.  Who doesn't appreciate affordable quality content? Peacock is also slowly expanding its live sports content, and now lets paid users watch Sunday Night Football games. Other sports programming on Peacock includes Premier League soccer, IndyCar coverage, and World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) content. Note, however, Peacock no longer offers a free tier for new subscribers. Existing free subscribers are unaffected for now.  Peacock doesn't support 4K streams, which is disappointing, but it lets you stream on up to three devices per account. Only Premium Plus users can download shows for offline viewing on mobile devices. You can download the Peacock app on mobile platforms (Android and iOS), media streaming devices (Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku), and gaming consoles (last-and-current-generation PlayStation and Xbox systems). Amazon offers two ways to get Prime Video: a standalone subscription ($8.99 per month with ads, $11.99 per month ad-free) or an Amazon Prime subscription that includes shipping and shopping perks ($14.99 per month or $139 per year). In recent years, Amazon has focused on curating high-quality original shows such as Bosch, The Boys, Catastrophe, Fleabag, Hanna, Hunters, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, Patriot, Tales From The Loop, Undone, and Upload. The $416 million Lord of the Rings series is still on track, too. Many of these shows are excellent and on par with Netflix's offerings, though the latter has a much deeper content library. There's one advantage that Prime Video has over Netflix: It broadcasts Thursday Night Football games, select MLB matchups, and most recently, WNBA games. Although it has a subscription option, Prime Video is also for people who want to buy or rent shows or movies a la carte. Amazon's video library also includes tons of popular and classic movies available for streaming at no additional cost. Amazon's purchase of MGM for $8.45 billion should considerably improve the movie selection.  Prime Video is notable in that it supports 4K and HDR streaming, as well as downloads for offline viewing. Amazon's video service works on a web browser, plus Android and iOS devices, game consoles (PlayStation, Xbox), smart TVs, and media streaming devices (Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, Nvidia Shield, TiVo). With Prime Video, you can stream up to three titles at the same time from the same account, but it limits you to streaming the same title to two devices simultaneously. Prime Video also lets you create multiple viewing profiles per account, a fairly recent addition. Max's greatest strength is its catalog of prestige original shows, including Barry, Big Little Lies, Chernobyl, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, Sex and the City, Silicon Valley, Six Feet Under, Succession, The Sopranos, The Wire, and Westworld.  The service acquired the streaming rights to several other popular shows, such as Friends (including a reunion show), Rick and Morty, and South Park. Babylon 5 Remastered is also now available for streaming. In addition, Max includes select content from other sources within the greater Warner Discovery universe, including CNN, Crunchyroll, DC Comics, and Looney Tunes. Read our feature on everything coming to Max this month to find out what you can watch. In addition to all those TV shows, Max bundles an impressive collection of popular movies from other Warner properties (Warner Bros. and New Line Cinema ) and other sources (such as The Criterion Collection and Studio Ghibli). Plus, you get all the wonderful reality trash of the Discovery universe, from cooking shows like Chopped to dating nightmares like 90 Day Fiancé.  HBO is arguably the biggest name in quality TV, and you can only stream it with Max. If Max's $15.99-per-month plan is too expensive for you, a cheaper, ad-supported version is available for $9.99 per month. This tier does not include access to the aforementioned Warner Bros. same-day releases, nor does it let you stream in 4K or download titles for offline viewing. The ad experience is reasonable, however; Max says the total playtime of ads will not exceed four minutes per hour, and that ads will not play during its own content. Max has all the top features found in other video streaming services, including offline downloads on mobile devices, support for multiple viewing profiles (up to five), simultaneous streams (up to three), audio descriptions, and modern apps. However, only a few titles currently support 4K streaming. Check out our Max tips story to get the most from your subscription. The service is available on mobile devices (Android and iOS), TVs (Apple, Android, and Samsung), and current-and-last-gen gaming consoles (PlayStation, Xbox). It supports Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku media streaming platforms, too. Disney+ packages a ton of Disney's media properties, including content from Marvel, National Geographic, Pixar, and Star Wars, into a full-featured streaming service. In addition to classic Disney content, you can also watch originals such as Encore!, High School Musical: The Musical: The Series, Marvel's Hero Project, The Falcon and The Winter Soldier, Loki, The Mandalorian, The World According to Jeff Goldblum, WandaVision, and What If...? Note that most of the content Disney acquired from its 21st Century Fox takeover is missing from the service, though a lot of those shows are on Hulu. If you have even a passing interest in just one of the many beloved properties under the Disney corporate umbrella, Disney+ is for you. Aside from all the Marvel, Pixar, and Star Wars movies already on the service (although not all Marvel movies are available here), Disney continues to debut its latest films here too.  Disney+'s monthly price is reasonable relative to the rewatch value of its content, but its basic tier now comes with ads. To remove adds and download videos for offline viewing, you must pay for a more expensive tier. You can save money by opting for an annual plan. Disney also offers various plans that bundle Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu. Disney+ supports capabilities such as 4K streaming and offline downloads (on mobile). The service's support for four simultaneous streams and seven customizable profiles make it a compelling option for families, though we wish its parental control options allowed for more flexibility. Our Disney+ tips and tricks feature helps you leverage all that the service offers. The streaming channel is available on the web; Android and iOS devices; media streaming platforms such as the Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku; and gaming consoles. YouTube TV offers an excellent selection of news channels, live sports (including exclusive Sunday NFL games), and many popular entertainment options. Some top networks available include ABC, AMC, CBS, CNN, ESPN, Fox, FX, and NBC. In addition, it features channels from Warner Bros. Discovery and Paramount Global, plus local PBS channels. So naturally, this channel variety doesn't come cheap; steady price hikes have brought YouTube TV to $72.99 per month.  YouTube TV is your best option for replacing cable. If YouTube TV's library still doesn't meet your needs, you can add other packages, such as Acorn TV, CuriosityStream, and NBA League Pass, to your subscription. The Entertainment Plus package bundles Max, Showtime, and Starz for $30 per month. YouTube TV's most recent 4K Plus add-on ($19.99 per month) unlocks 4K streaming, support for unlimited simultaneous streams, and offline viewing of DVR content. With YouTube TV, you get unlimited cloud DVR storage. The service will keep your recordings for nine months, and you can stream your content from anywhere in the US. One YouTube TV membership supports up to six accounts, so you can share with family or roommates, though you can only simultaneously stream from three accounts. In addition, YouTube TV's apps look and work great across various platforms, including Fire TV devices and the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series S/X consoles. Tubi is a free video streaming service that claims a collection of 50,000 movies and TV shows (though we aren't sure if it counts episodes individually as part of that number). Regardless, its catalog includes popular films such as A.I. Artificial Intelligence, Black Hawk Down, Donnie Darko, Legally Blonde, Memento, Minority Report, Rain Man, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and We Need to Talk About Kevin. Its TV library is less impressive, but some notable entries include 3rd Rock From the Sun (seasons 1-5), Degrassi: The Next Generation (seasons 1-14); Hell's Kitchen (seasons 1-14), Jojo's Bizarre Adventures (seasons 1-4), Naruto (seasons 1-4), and V (seasons 1-2). Note that Tubi's library regularly changes.  Tubi is for people who want a free service that doesn't feel cheap. Tubi's web interface and mobile apps have clean designs and organize everything neatly into descriptive categories. One limitation with Tubi is that the streaming resolution is capped at 720p. That wouldn't be a major problem, except that many movies are only available in 540p. As expected, Tubi does not support offline downloads for mobile devices, either. However, the service keeps track of the content you've watched and lets you manage a watchlist. The parental control tools are a bit limited, but at least they're an option. Tubi is available on the web and for mobile devices (Android and iOS). Supported media streaming devices include Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, Roku, and TiVo. Tubi also supports gaming consoles (PlayStation and Xbox) and select smart TVs from Samsung, Sony, and Vizio. Fubo is a great option for any cord-cutting sports fans. Its base subscription plan, called Fubo Pro, costs $79.99 per month and grants access to roughly 150 channels, with the exact number depending on your location. For national sports, there's CBS, FOX, NBA TV, NBC, and NFL Network. For international sports, you get channels from the beIN network and Univision. Fubo has Disney-owned channels (including ESPN), but no longer carries CNN and other WarnerMedia channels. Most recently, Fubo dropped six A&E-owned channels: A&E, History Channel, FYI Channel, Lifetime, Lifetime Movie Network, and Vice TV. However, Fubo also added Bally Sports RSNs. If you're ever not in the mood for sports, Fubo offers many entertainment channels, such as AMC, The Food Network, FX, National Geographic, SYFY, and USA. After adding Viacom channels a few months back to the Standard plan, Fubo now bundles channels from the Discovery network, such as Animal Planet, Discovery Channel, and TLC. You not only get to watch live events and programs from the included channels, but there are also numerous on-demand shows and movies. Sports fans need customization options to follow precisely which teams and games they want to see. Fortunately, you can supplement the base Fubo plan with add-ons, including the Sports Plus with NFL RedZone ($10.99 per month) and Fubo Extra (7.99 per month) options. The latter adds nearly 60 channels to the lineup. To top it off, Fubo offers excellent DVR capabilities. It gives you 250 hours of storage by default, which can be increased to 1,000 hours, and it supports three simultaneous streams (which expands to 10 streams via an add-on). In addition, the Lookback feature lets you watch anything you may have missed up to 72 hours after it first aired. Similarly, the Startover feature lets you watch currently airing events from the beginning, no matter when you tuned into the program. Aside from watching Fubo on the web, you can download apps for Android, Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, iOS, Roku devices, and smart TVs. The service is available on Xbox consoles, but not PlayStation boxes. Crunchyroll is one of the most complete anime streaming services, with more than 1,300 titles in its library. Popular shows on the service include Attack on Titan, Death Note, FLCL, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, Hunter X Hunter, One-Punch Man, several Naruto series, and Yuri!!! on Ice. Crunchyroll also has some original series, such as A Place Further Than the Universe, In/Spectre, and The Rising of the Shield Hero. Upcoming titles include Onyx Equinox, which is set in Meso-America, and Meiji Gekken: Sword & Gun, which takes place in Japan during the 1870s. It also maintains a respectable lineup of about 40 simulcast shows. You can even purchase relevant merchandise, manga, and more from the Crunchyroll shop. Crunchyroll gives anime fans a convenient (and legal) way to watch shows that years ago would never have come to the West. Crunchyroll supports HD streams for both free and paid accounts, but you must opt for the premium tier to get rid of ads. We would like to see Crunchyroll clean up some of its interfaces. Most of Crunchyroll's content supports subtitles, but after absorbing Funimation (along with VRV) its dubbed library is also now much stronger.  You can download the Crunchyroll apps on media streaming devices (Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku), mobile phones (Android and iOS), and several gaming consoles (Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series S/X). Crunchyroll supports as many as six simultaneous streams, depending on your price tier, as well as offline downloads. CuriosityStream offers a massive collection of informational and entertaining documentary features in numerous categories, including History, Kids, Lifestyle, Nature, Science, Society, and Technology. David Attenborough and Sigourney Weaver are among the hosts of the top-notch titles on CuriosityStream. There’s also a kid-specific section on the platform. Make sure to check out our roundup of the best online learning sites if you are interested in expanding your knowledge potential. The service offers two pricing tiers that offer the same documentaries. The only difference is that the more expensive plan ($9.99 per month) unlocks 4K streaming. CuriosityStream supports offline downloads on mobile, and doesn’t display ads. You can download the app on mobile devices (Android and iOS), gaming platforms (PlayStation 4, Xbox One), streaming media devices (Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku), and smart TVs. Many streaming services offer the mindless comfort of watching reruns of your favorite shows. That gets tiring, eventually. CuriosityStream is for people who want to learn about a topic whether they're on the couch or on the go. This streaming service offers a huge collection of high-quality films and documentaries from distribution giants, such as A24, Bleecker Street, HBO Documentary Films, Paramount, PBS, and Samuel Goldwyn Films. Kanopy also has a dedicated section for kids ages two and older. The one main drawback to Kanopy is that it limits the number of titles you can watch each month. This restriction doesn't apply to the content in the Kanopy Kids section. Kanopy is especially useful for students and library visitors. If you have a library card or a current university email address, you can access Kanopy for free. Kanopy also supports an unlimited number of simultaneous streams per account and does not show ads, but it does not support offline downloads on mobile devices. In a nice touch, Kanopy lets you record content clips for sharing on social platforms. Kanopy is available on the web, mobile platforms (Android, Fire OS, iOS), and media streaming devices (Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, and Roku), but not game consoles. PBS Documentaries, as its name implies, is an excellent source for documentary film fans. It includes entries from numerous distributors, including American Experience, American Masters, Frontline, Independent Lens, Nature, Nova, POV, and other independent producers. PBS Documentaries is also home to Ken Burn's entire collection of documentaries. Some examples of films you can watch on the service include Stanley Nelson’s The Black Panthers: Vanguard of the Revolution, Academy Award-Nominated films such as For Sama and Last Days in Vietnam, and nature documentaries, such as Your Inner Fish.   While PBS is for the public, only certain users can access PBS Documentaries. PBS Documentaries is only available as a Prime Video channel, but that's not a huge strike against it, since Prime Video is available on nearly every platform that supports offline downloads on mobile devices. The service features the IMDb-powered X-Ray overlay, too. Despite its low price, it does not show any ads. One drawback of PBS Documentaries is that none of its titles currently support audio descriptions. Still, PBS Documentaries edges out fellow PBS streaming apps PBS Videos and PBS Passport.  If you enjoy watching documentaries, particularly those about ancient civilizations or military history, then History Vault may be right up your alley. This affordable, on-demand streaming service boasts popular titles from the History Channel, too, such as American Restoration, Ancient Aliens, Ice Road Truckers, Modern Marvels, and The Universe, plus biopics of famous historical figures. If you already get the History Channel via a cable or live TV subscription, you can also access many of that channel's reality show offerings via the free History app. Either you are a history buff, or you'll grow into one, so you might as well embrace it now with History Vault. However, the service could use a few more modern touches. For example, history Vault does not support 4K streaming (most titles are available in either 720p or 1080p). Unfortunately, History Vault has limited accessibility options. You can get the app on mobile platforms (Android and iOS), media streaming devices (Apple TV, Chromecast, Fire TV, Roku), and on the web, but not on game consoles. KweliTV is your destination for films and shows from Africa and beyond. The service features more than 600 total curated entries, including Africa United and Black Enuf, along with other documentaries and titles you might find at an indie film festival. You can check out the full list of KweliTV's award-winning content, even without a subscription. There's also a free, live streaming component (not available on the web) that plays KweliTV content, albeit with some ad breaks. You can rent individual films and shows from the service, too. Apart from access to KweliTV's streaming library, a subscription grants you discounts at more than 35 Black-owned brands, plus invites to members-only events. KweliTV also maintains a merchandise store, where you can purchase KweliTV-branded apparel and accessories. KweliTV is for anyone who celebrates the fact that incredible art exists outside their own borders. KweliTV supports streams up to 1080p resolution, though not every entry meets this standard. The service currently lacks any parental control tools, and is inconsistent in terms of subtitle support. However, it lets you download titles for offline viewing on mobile platforms. KweliTV offers apps on all major mobile and media streaming platforms, though console owners can only access it via the web. Although it may not be what you think of when looking for a video streaming service, Plex now has a decent amount of on-demand streaming content. The catalog includes Crackle’s entire library of movies and TV shows, as well as films from studios, such as MGM and Warner Bros. Much of this content is available to stream in 1080p resolution. Although you can’t claim this content for your own media server, you don’t need to allocate space for it either. Plex features preprogrammed live TV channels too, with channels from AMC, IFC, and Tastemade, among others. While on-demand movies and shows are appreciated, media server management remains a core Plex feature for good reason. The software makes it easy to set up a server, offers intuitive playback apps on many platforms, and wraps everything into an intuitive interface. It's the only service on this list for users seeking that kind of functionality. Plex isn't as customizable as Kodi, and no longer fully supports home theater PCs (HTPCs), but it is one of the best solutions for accessing your local media library from anywhere. The competition between video streaming services has never been tougher, so some media companies are banding together. For instance, CBS and Viacom merged (again) to launch Paramount+ bundled with Showtime. Warner Bros. merged with Discovery to form the new streaming giant Max, which has already killed CNN+, the Batgirl movie, and many cartoons. However, thanks to the Discovery+ content, it leads the charge in streaming's new trash TV golden age. Amazon also bought MGM for $9 billion, which considerably boosted Prime Video's library. Crunchyroll became the definitive anime streaming service by gobbling up rivals Funimation and VRV. Disney bundles Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ to cover all entertainment bases. Even AMC+ has a bundle packaging together AMC Premiere, Shudder, Sundance Now, IFC Films Unlimited, and BBC America. The increasingly competitive streaming market is not without consequences. Consumers who may have initially been attracted to the flexibility that streaming services offer over cable now must navigate a crowded and constantly shifting nightmare of streaming rights and new services, many of which continue to rise in cost. Live TV streaming services are also struggling to adjust to the rising costs of broadcast rights from cable channel owners. The price of just about every one of these services has increased considerably over time. As mentioned, a video streaming service's success largely depends on what its library offers. That's why so many services are investing heavily in developing high-quality original content. Consider, for example, Netflix's Stranger Things, Amazon's The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, and Hulu's The Handmaid's Tale, all of which are Emmy-winning shows. Without these hooks, standalone video streaming services would likely be unable to compete with existing entertainment behemoths. Several platforms have also saved popular shows from the grave in an effort to build a compelling library. For instance, Roku brought back all the originals from the ill-fated Quibi, even if many of those shows have since been removed. Apart from on-demand video streaming services, complete cable-replacement services are now just as mainstream. Some of the best live TV services, for example, such as Hulu and YouTube TV, offer robust lineups of local, news, sports, and lifestyle channels. Others have specialties. For instance, DirecTV Stream is the best option for regional sports networks (RSNs), and Philo is custom-built for lifestyle and entertainment fans.  Sports fans may worry that they won't be able to watch live sports when they ditch cable. However, that's simply not the case. Many of the video streaming options we reviewed are also among the best sports streaming services. Whether you want to watch regional, national, or international sports, there is a service that meets your needs. Although blackouts and cancellations may still apply, these streaming options offer distinct advantages over cable, including full-featured apps on many platforms and simultaneous streaming capabilities. Check out our roundup of the best NFL streaming services, best MLB streaming services, best NBA streaming services, and the best NHL streaming services for specific recommendations. Smaller and sometimes cheaper options also exist with a more specific focus. For example, Crunchyroll, Hidive, and RetroCrush represent anime streaming services. Check out our roundup of the best free video streaming services if you want to reduce the amount you spend on streaming subscriptions each month. Explore our article about the best video streaming services for celebrating Black art, too.  Horror fans need not fear ditching cable, either, with the best horror streaming services. We've curated lists of the best horror films and scary original shows. Even Troma has a streaming app now, so low-budget schlock aficionados have options.  Cinephiles should read our coverage of the best movie streaming services. If you're after something more educational, our roundup of the best documentary streaming services is a good place to start. Alamo on Demand and Angelika Anywhere offer virtual versions of curated movie theaters. If live theater is more your thing, BroadwayHD is your best bet.  Although it is not what typically comes to mind, Vimeo also offers a small selection of indie films and video projects via its On Demand section. Twitch is your best bet if you want to watch people play games. You should also consider streaming Netflix and other top video services to your game consoles. Plex is yet another option for streaming your local media content, over-the-air cable (provided you have the right hardware), and an on-demand library that now includes all of Crackle's library. Open-source software Kodi offers similar media-management functionality. You should use a virtual private network (VPN) for all your internet-related tasks, but VPNs are particularly useful for streaming services since they can sometimes grant access to region-locked content. For example, if you connect to a VPN server in the UK from a device in the US, you may be able to watch free content from BBC TV. That said, streaming services are cracking down on VPN usage, so we recommend signing up for a trial to test your network setup before fully committing to a service. Make sure to check out our explainer on how to unblock Netflix with a VPN, as well as our guide on the best VPNs for video streaming. If you want to cut the cord, here's our rundown of what you can expect from the most popular services. You shouldn't fall into the trap of paying more for video streaming services than you did for cable, so make sure to only sign up for those that offer the content you actually want to watch and pick services that fit your budget. If you need more help, check out these helpful streaming video guides that help you find and list content. We've reviewed dozens of streaming services, but if we missed your favorite option, make sure to let us know in the comment section. Stay up to date with the latest streaming hits with our recurring feature on what to watch this weekend. Does your home's Wi-Fi coverage not extend to your backyard oasis? We'll show you how to download videos from every video streaming service for offline playback. Even though you may not be able to be in the same physical place as your friends and family due to COVID-19, you can still watch the same shows together. You can use the Netflix Party Chrome extension to sync that service's video playback across devices. Hulu ad-free subscribers and Plex fans also enjoy co-watching features.  Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I’ve been writing and editing technology content for over five years, most recently as part of PCMag's consumer electronics team, though I also spent several years on the software team. Before PCMag, I worked at Neowin.net, Tom’s Guide, and Laptop Mag. I spend too much of my free time reading forums and blogs about audio and photography. Read Ben's full bio In 2013, I started my Ziff Davis career as an intern on PCMag's Software team. Now, I’m an Analyst on the Apps and Gaming team, and I really just want to use my fancy Northwestern University journalism degree to write about video games. I host The Pop-Off, PCMag's video game show. I was previously the Senior Editor for Geek.com. I’ve also written for The A.V. Club, Kotaku, and Paste Magazine. I’m the author of a video game history book, Video Game of the Year, and the reason why everything you know about Street Sharks is a lie. Read Jordan's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.