My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Logistics firm Delhivery will acquire Pune-based supply chain software provider Algorhythm Tech for Rs 15 crore. Post completion of the transaction, which is expected to be completed by January 31, 2023, Algorhythm Tech will operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, Delhivery said. Set up in 2003, Algorhythm offers end-to-end supply chain planning and execution products to customers in various sectors, such as FMCG, pharma, steel, auto and telecom. Delhivery said that Algorhythm’s supply chain software tools are relevant both as a value-added service to the unicorn’s customers, and to drive cost optimisation in service delivery. Apart from buying 100 percent shares and certain other payments to outgoing management team members, Delhivery may provide inter-corporate loans or infuse additional capital in the company to meet business requirements and settle past arrears and other liabilities. The acquisition will be funded from the proceeds raised through the initial public offer earlier this year. Last month, Delhivery said its shipment volumes are expected to grow in the range of 18-30 percent in FY23. The company's shipment volume had zoomed 101 percent to 58.2 crore packages in FY22 while it had recorded a revenue growth of 63 percent to Rs 7,241 crore. Although the e-commerce industry, which is Delhivery’s biggest revenue source, is expected to grow slower this year due to macro headwinds, the company said it was optimistic about the sector’s long-term prospects as e-commerce penetration continues to be very low in India.
         DAILY-EVENING DAILY-EVENING  Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.