Unravelling the hype behind IT for creating useful CIO strategies. As large language models become embedded in enterprise software, CIOs will likely face a brick wall of resistance from internal stakeholders concerned about sharing confidential data and data compliance regulations like GDPR. Generative AI systems and large language models like ChatGPT, rely on processing vast swathes of training data, often collected from the public cloud. Many heads of IT and IT security are assessing the privacy and security implications for their organisations. A new BlackBerry’s study, conducted in June and July by OnePoll,  based on a survey of 2,000 IT decision-makers, found that two-third (66%) of respondents have banned or are considering banning ChatGPT. Computer Weekly previously discussed how smaller businesses are at a disadvantage in the world of large language models, as their datasets may not span a wide enough range to provide robust training for an AI system. There will clearly be opportunities to purchase commercial LLMs that have been trained on much larger datasets. The challenge is then how to combine multiple data sources in a way that offers decision-makers meaningful, auditable and accurate insights. Larger organisations may well have diverse enough datasets to build their own data models internally and the expertise and resources to enhance these with controlled access to public data stores. But some recent changes at SAP may mark the beginning of a trend in enterprise software, taking the build or buy debate into the AI era. In July, during SAP’s second quarter earnings call, CEO Christian Klein unveiled a new plan for how some of the more advanced AI-powered features in the company’s enterprise software will be delivered. Customers of SAP pay significant maintenance fees to keep their ERP up-to-date with the latest developments. But Klein now wants to differentiate between premium AI-powered add-ons, only available to SAP Rise customers, hosting their enterprise software on the SAP cloud and those whose strategy involves running SAP S/4Hana in on-premise datacentres or hosting in another public cloud provider’s infrastructure. SAP appears to be positioning Rise hosted on SAP servers as the best way to take advantage of the continuous improvements to data models the company can offer through its cloud services. Benefits, according the SAP, include faster return on investment. According to the transcript of the earnings call, posted on Seeking Alpha, Klein sees a potential doubling of SAP’s addressable market to $1 trillion by 2028 thanks to AI enhancements in business software. IT chiefs may have a very good reason for not wanting to host their commercially sensitive data in SAP’s cloud, even if it will offer compelling AI enhancements, albeit at a premium. Anyone facing this dilemma will have some difficult choices: build your own AI enhancements or accept SAP Rise as your enterprise platform. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... In light of the recent CrowdStrike outage, security teams should ask their vendors 10 key questions to ensure they're prepared ... Product updates announced at Black Hat USA 2024 can help security teams better manage constantly changing attack surfaces and ... The global IT outage caused by an errant CrowdStrike channel file update dominated security news last month. But there were still... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Nutanix and Dell are expanding their partnership with a new appliance out now and a new HCI model that melds Dell PowerFlex with ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
