The city is expected to bask in the sunshine for a bit longer Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters It is set to be another sunny weekend in Bristol as forecasters predict people will need to grab sunglasses and top up on sun cream.. After weeks of sunshine, Bristol is set to see temperatures of 22C with ore clear blue skies heading into next week. The UK saw the hottest temperatures of the year so far this week, with Porthmadog in Wales hitting above 25C on Tuesday, May 30. Other parts of the West and South West stayed firmly in the low 20s for much of the week, while cities further eastwards struggled to stay in double figures.  Bristolians will not have to face 25C just yet, through the weekend ahead is expected to be just as warm ad sunny as recently seen. After a cloudy start to Friday (June 2) the sky will clear up through this afternoon, with the mercury reaching 20C. Read more: Glastonbury 2023 weather: Met Office long-range forecast suggests 'thundery' conditions Tomorrow (Saturday, June 3) will also see a cloudy start for Bristol, though the Met Office expects this to clear up by late morning. The sky will stay sunny for the rest of the day, with temperatures hitting 22C around 4pm.  On Sunday, the forecast is much the same. Meteorologists say clear skies and warm temperatures reaching 22C through the day are expected. Temperature is not the only thing forecast to be high in Bristol however, as the Met Office warns of particularly high levels of grass pollen in the city. The Met Office says grass pollen levels are highest in the South as more species of grass starts to flower, prompted by warmer weather. In a tweet, the Met Office said: "Grass pollen levels are on the rise, as more grasses come into flower, particularly in the south. Lower levels of grass pollen further north, but pockets of moderate tree pollen still possible, with oak the most prevalent at this time of year." Brought by clear skies and sunshine, the forecaster also warns of very high levels of UV radiation in Bristol this weekend. The Met Office uses Solar UV Index, created by the World Health Organisation, to mark the strength of ultraviolet (UV) radiation in an area according to sun position, cloud cover, and the ozone in the atmosphere. The Met Office forecasts very high UV levels across Bristol from around 1pm in the afternoon through the weekend, reaching an eight on the index - the highest seen in the UK. This is not uncommon for the time of year, but it is recommended to avoid being outside during these times. The forecaster advises: "Avoid being outside during midday hours. Shirt, sunscreen and hat are essential." Settled on Friday and into the weekend with warm sunshine. Today: Cloud soon breaking up through the morning to leave another fine and settled day with plenty of warm sunshine, though remaining breezy along the coasts. Maximum temperature 21C. Tonight: Remaining dry this evening with plenty of late sunshine. Cloud spreading in from the east overnight with clearer skies further west. Feeling cooler than recent nights and rather breezy. Minimum temperature 5C. Saturday: Any patchy low cloud in the east quickly clearing to leave a bright day with plenty of lengthy sunshine. Feeling pleasant with a slight breeze. Maximum temperature 22C. Outlook for Sunday to Tuesday: Staying dry with high pressure remaining dominant. Plenty of strong sunshine but some cloud bubbling up at times. Warm days, albeit cool overnight. Breezy along the southern coasts. Read next: Couple who've never entered Bristol CAZ receive £1.4K of fines Lift back from pub turned into horror crash that changed woman's life New £25m Bristol school ordered to change admissions policy Bristol's best fish and chips shops according to our reader poll Bristol Register Office windows smashed as police appeal to identify man 