Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters A four-day weekend is just around the corner, thanks to the Easter bank holidays on Friday April 7 and Monday April 10.  With some sunshine and mild temperatures due to make an appearance for the extended break, many people will want to make the most of time outdoors with friends and family. And now the UK has moved from Greenwich Mean Time to British Summer Time, it means we can enjoy the brighter evenings, with the sun setting at around 7.43pm from Friday.  As exciting as the warmer weather is, for many people it brings a seasonal struggle; hay fever. Pollen allergies can cause sufferers to have a runny nose, itchy eyes and sore throat. For people with asthma, it can exacerbate symptoms including a tight chest and wheezing.  READ MORE: Babies and toddlers 'at-risk' to be offered COVID vaccine The condition is thought to infect up to one in five people, according to NHS Inform. The Met Office has updated its pollen forecast for the Easter weekend, with high warnings in place for Wales, the midlands and southern England. However Northern Ireland, Scotland and the north of England will see low pollen counts from Good Friday through to Easter Monday.  The north west of England is an exception and will see a moderate pollen warning on Saturday. The pollen count will be high in the east and west midlands, south west and east England, London and Wales on Friday.  The pollen warning bumps to up 'very high' in the west midlands, south west and east England and London on Saturday. The warnings will lower down to mild in the south of England, Wales and the midlands on Sunday.  Unlike a cold, hay fever can last for weeks and months. According to the NHS, hay fever is usually worse between late March and September, when the pollen count is at its highest. Warm, humid and windy weather can also have an impact. There is no cure or prevention for hay fever, however there are steps you can take to help alleviate symptoms when the pollen count is high. These include putting Vaseline around your nostrils to trap pollen, washing pollen off by changing your clothes and showering after spending time outside and staying indoors as much as possible. Read today's top stories here READ NEXT:  NHS gives urgent warning to anyone taking medication ahead of Easter weekend that could have 'serious consequences' Random 'poo on stick' test landed on dad's doormat one day - and saved his life 'I missed birthday parties, I'd dread being asked to drinks - I had no clue how ill I was' Grandad who was sent home from hospital with painkillers ended up needing leg amputated 1.5 million people are affected by this debilitating condition - including Molly-Mae - but many have no idea what it even is 