Just got your hands on a PlayStation 5? You’ll need to know what the best PS5 games are before you take Sony’s new-gen console for a spin. From Elden Ring and Demon’s Souls to Returnal and Grand Theft Auto V, we’ve rounded up the video games that’ll help make your PS5 experience that much better and justify the long wait you’ve had to put up with while Sony was dealing with hardware shortages for its new flagship console. Most of the games listed below can be found on Sony’s revamped PlayStation Plus service as PS5 remakes, but we’ve also included a handful of PS4 backward-compatible games that we think should definitely be part of your collection. Keep in mind, our list will be updated regularly, especially since 2023 has some exciting PS5 games on the way including the Dead Space remake, Marvel’s Spider-Man 2, Forspoken, the Resident Evil 4 remake and Hogwarts Legacy. RELATED: PlayStation 5 Review – A Complete Sensory Experience Release Date: February 25, 2022Metacritic Score: 96PlayStation Exclusive: No It’s hard to write about Elden Ring without being sickeningly servile to FromSoftware’s unequivocal masterpiece. The vast open world this developer, best known for the Dark Souls games (or, for fans, the “Soulsborne” franchise), has created is endlessly fascinating with more hidden secrets – importantly, worth exploring – than any game I’ve played to date. The big adventure is as ruthlessly difficult as FromSoftware’s other famously intimidating Souls titles, and yet the developer has happened upon a formula that works perfectly. Instead of frustratingly slamming down your PS5 DualSense controller like you would as a kid, there’s a strong sense of determination as you play through Elden Ring’s most challenging moments. That’s because FromSoftware has managed to make each and every success in Elden Ring feel genuinely rewarding. This lessens the sting of dying 200 times from the same boss. That pure dopamine hit you get from finally killing a perfectly choreographed boss like Malenia, Blade of Miquella – even if you had to use a summons (online multiplayer assistance) – is always going to be worth it. There’s really no other game like it, and until FromSoftware stop being cowards and make a truly open-world Bloodbourne then Elden Ring will remain the best of all the PS5 games available. To no one’s surprise, Elden Ring was named Game of the Year 2022 and The Game Awards and has been a major success for Bandai Namco, selling well over 17.5 million copies globally – that’s more than Dark Souls III and Sekiro combined. Release Date: February 18, 2022Metacritic Score: 88PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Sony Interactive Entertainment happened upon a goldmine when it published Horizon Zero Dawn in 2017 for the PS4. Developed by Guerrilla Games, the vast open-world RPG immediately hit hard as one of PlayStation’s best new properties, led by charming protagonist Aloy and functioning as somewhat of a sprawling Jurassic Park with robots. The first game hit all the right beats for an epic action-adventure game, with intuitive controls, unique gameplay and tight combat mechanics that didn’t get stale over time. Horizon Forbidden West, the official sequel, followed in 2022 and used those foundations very well, spinning a richer, more exciting story and filling the world with exceptional boss battles and engaging sidequests. While the new Horizon adventure builds upon the first game very well, it could just as easily act as a solid standalone game. Guerrilla Games has successfully maximised the new gaming hardware of the latest PlayStation console, giving us a good option to complement other excellent showcase pieces like Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart and the stunning Demon’s Souls PS5 remake. It’s not confirmed whether Guerrilla Games is working on a Horizon Forbidden West sequel yet, but it wouldn’t be a surprise to see this series continue. Already, the Horizon Forbidden West: Burning Shores DLC is well on its way, but it’ll be a PS5 exclusive so PS4 players won’t be able to download it. We already know that the PSVR2 will have its own standalone game as part of the series, called Horizon Call of the Mountain, and there is going to be a Horizon Netflix show as well to add to the string of small-screen gaming adaptations rolling out over the next few years. There are also rumours that a PS5 remake of the original game will be out in due course. Release Date: May 7, 2021Metacritic Score: 84PlayStation Exclusive: No Spilling on from the heavy impact of Resident Evil 7, the next entry in this long-running horror-survival franchise has once again demonstrated that there’s plenty of steam left in Capcom’s most prolific property. What Resident Evil Village does so well moves the series beyond flesh-and-bone zombies and monsters into more mystical and supernatural territory, expanding the type of villains the developers can experiment with, which has led to some incredible character design. From killer floating dolls to primary antagonist Lady Dimitrescu, Resident Evil Village is genuinely terrifying and while it may not have the same snub-nosed brilliance of adventure-heavy Resident Evil 4 going for it, Village manages to keep things fresh while still retaining the grotesque charm that has made Resident Evil such a hit over the years. With the Shadows of Rose DLC now available, Resident Evil Village is packed full of so much content that even if the game wasn’t as good as it is, it’d be worth the investment. Considering a Resident Evil 4 Remake will be released on March 24, 2023, it seems this series will – fortunately – never die. Release Date: June 11, 2021Metacritic Score: 88PlayStation Exclusive: Yes During the lead-up to the PS5 launch, Sony would lean heavily on footage from Ratchet and Clank Rift Apart to really showcase what its new gaming hardware was capable of. The latest entry in the long-running series uses “rifts” or portal-like fractures at various points throughout the game that required a huge graphical load and really demonstrated what a difference it makes to have a higher frame rate. When it was finally released months after the PS5 launch, Ratchet and Clank Rift Apart delivered when it promised – ruthlessly brilliant graphics, fast-paced platforming action and addictive weapon progression that just ate through your dopamine reserves like a mystery bag at a Saturday night rager.  It’s an incredibly moreish game, focusing on the animated fantasticism that made the series so popular to begin with and adding so much relentless action that playing through it often feels like you’re on a rollercoaster. I haven’t had this much fun with a platformer since Ubisoft Montpellier’s Rayman Legends. It’s absolutely one of the best games on PS5 right now. Release Date: November 12, 2020Metacritic Score: 92PlayStation Exclusive: Yes More than a few quality of life improvements have elevated Demon’s Souls, the title that started the entire Soulsborne series, to a status of high art. The incredibly fluid combat, vivid details and streamlined gameplay has taken the PS3 original and made it better in every conceivable way. This has also made FromSoftware’s intimidating title much more accessible. It still retains that punishing difficulty, of course, but the intuitive controls make it much easier to handle each fight. When Demon’s Souls was announced as a PS5 launch title, there was widespread disappointment. While no one would say no to another FromSoftware title, it seemed like we were being shortchanged having a remake – albeit a substantial one – as one of the primary table-setters next gen consoles. The reason soon became apparent. The Demon’s Souls remake is a true next gen game. The changes made make it feel like a brand new game as well, revisiting what is widely considered one of the greatest hardcore adventure titles in modern gaming. Release Date: February 4, 2022Metacritic Score: 77PlayStation Exclusive: No It may not be as polished and exciting as the original game, but the sequel to 2015’s excellent Dying Light is still well worth your attention. For Dying Light 2, developer and publisher Techland brings much of the same zombie survival tactics to the table, powered mostly by high-octane parkour as you have to jump from building to building, trying to “stay human” as you play an infected survivor Aiden Caldwell and barrel your way through hordes of aggressive undead. The story isn’t as focused as it was in the first game, but the moment to moment gameplay is still top-notch and will easily keep you entertained for a few months while you explore the fractured open-world in which Techland has clearly poured a lot of technical know-how. Release Date: November 9, 2022Metacritic Score: 94PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Sony’s Santa Monica Studio has really established itself as MVP when it comes to PlayStation exclusives. 2018’s God Of War won all sorts of awards for its heartfelt story and gutsy, gory gameplay, so of course there was an immense amount of pressure on the long-awaited follow-up to meet expectations. Expectations exceeded. Santa Monica Studio knocked it out of the park for God of War Ragnarök, continuing that rich storytelling and father-son dynamic for Kratos (Christopher Judge) and Aterus (Sunny Suljic) while also widening the game, building a fascinating world based on the nine realms for Norse mythology. It’s one of those games that deserves to be played with no expectations. An experience unto itself, much like Elden Ring or The Witcher 3. Release Date: April 10, 2020Metacritic Score: 89PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Square Enix held out for as long as they could while fans quite literally begged for a Final Fantasy VII remake. It seems the PS5 was as good a reason as any to give the beloved Final Fantasy title a significant retouch. Importantly, one that didn’t compromise on the original story that has come to define the long-running Final Fantasy series and make the seventh entry the finest and most acclaimed Final Fantasy game to date. And there’s still more to come. But for now, Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade is a fine example of Square Enix at its very best. It takes the first chapter of the game and touches it up in gorgeous HD and full voice acting for deeper immersion into a story that reaches back five generations of PlayStation. Substantial changes include faster real-time action that’s more skill-based than the button-mashing of traditional turn-based combat – although there’s plenty of that as well as you explore Midgar and areas like Wall Market. With an Intermission expansion already adding value for players, Square Enix plans to complete the remake with Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, due in late 2023. And before that, Square Enix will also be releasing Final Fantasy 16, first exclusively on PS5 before it also comes out for PS4 players. Release Date: December 14, 2022Metacritic Score: 97PlayStation Exclusive: No While the definitive edition of The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt has already been out for the Nintendo Switch for a while, PS5 owners had to wait until December to get their hands across CD Projekt RED’s fantasy-adventure masterpiece. Much like Elden Ring and God of War Ragnarök, The Witcher 3 is yet another example of why open-world RPGs are always going to be the most exciting – and acclaimed – titles in the modern age of console gaming. With the PS5’s advanced capabilities, it’s well worth getting The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt – Complete Edition simply because the hardware was made to handle massive games like this with confidence and a sense of slickness you wouldn’t get on the PS4. At the time of writing, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt – Complete Edition is the highest rated PS5 game on Metacritic with a score of 97. Release Date: November 12, 2022Metacritic Score: 85PlayStation Exclusive: Yes With Marvel’s Spider Man: Miles Morales serving as the big original launch title for the PS5, there were plenty of people curious as to why such a niche open-world superhero adventure was serving as the lead-in for Sony’s newest console. Insomniac Games has taken the first game into new territory by moving away from Peter Parker and towards the equally likable Miles Morales, doubling down on what made the 2018 title one of the best superhero games ever made. Yes, even better than Batman: Arkham Knight. Consider it the MCU version of Grand Theft Auto, with a completely open world, made even more thrilling by the obvious traversal mechanic – swinging from building to building around New York City via Spider Man’s webs. Release Date: August 13, 2021Metacritic Score: 93PlayStation Exclusive: No Hades really came out of nowhere and is a great example of an initially under-the-radar title that shoots up in popularity based on word of mouth. It’s proof that any game can be a success if it’s good enough. Originally released in 2018 to massive acclaim, Hades was re-released in 2021 for the next gen consoles, with Supergiant Games’ exceptional dungeon crawler working best on the PS5. As the immortal prince of the underworld, you’re afforded plenty of powers and skills as you play to navigate the gameplay, which is basically like a super-charged version of Diablo with more content. And to be quite honest, more fun. With Supergiant Games announcing Hades II with a teaser trailer at The Game Awards in December 2022, now is a great time to catch up on what is easily one of the best hype games of the past few years. Release Date: November 13, 2020Metacritic Score: 76PlayStation Exclusive: No While there’s a more recent Call of Duty game for PS5 players to wrap themselves around – the massively successful Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 – its Black Ops Cold War that players should be throwing themselves at first. Treyarch and Raven Software have interpreted Activision’s iconic first-person shooter franchise quite nicely, turning it into a cinematic espionage thriller. The actual quality of the gameplay can become a bit stale after a few of the longer missions that just drag on, but there’s enough here to justify Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War being included in this round up of the best PS5 games. Release Date: November 10, 2020Metacritic Score: 84PlayStation Exclusive: No Ubisoft Montreal put a lot of work into making Assassin’s Creed Valhalla feel more epic and cinematic than some of the more recent Assassin’s Creed games. While the series has been through its ups and downs, keeping it simple with gorgeous graphics and fun gameplay mechanics was always going to be the way to go. You play as Eivor, a hulking Viking raider chasing the kind of glory only afforded to the most brutal and cunning warriors. It may chip away at the tactical stealth-based gameplay that made the first few Assassin’s Creed games such a huge hit, but I feel like this is one of the better entries into the ever-evolving series in recent years. Release Date: January 20, 2021Metacritic Score: 84PlayStation Exclusive: No IO Interactive finally put the cap on its World of Assassination trilogy with Hitman 3 when it released all three games together for the PS4. Agent 47’s swan song is treated with an appropriate sense of occasion, and sprucing it up for the PS5’s smooth 60fps. All the major beats of the first Hitman games return and have been dialed up quite violently for the last hurrah, sprinkled with a sense of fun that makes Hitman 3 the best of the trilogy. What IO did with Hitman 3 bodes well for their next project, which will be a new James Bond game that’s reportedly still a few years away. Release Date: August 27, 2019Metacritic Score: 85PlayStation Exclusive: No Original, fascinating and constantly evolving. Control is one of those games that just fires on all cylinders, proving that outside of open-world adventures and first-person shooters, there are still studios out there coming up with genuinely fresh ideas. The game’s tone and gameplay are both aligned really well as players use various psychic abilities to – sometimes hilariously – mess with the game’s enemies. Developers Remedy Entertainment has used its distinctive design language to give Control plenty of personality, spun into the wider Remedy universe and leveraged off underrated games like Alan Wake and Quantum Break. With Remedy currently at work on Control 2 for PS5, Xbox Series X|S and PC, now is a good time to catch up with Control Ultimate Edition. The studio will also be putting out Alan Wake 2 as well as remakes of both Max Payne 1 and 2. Release Date: July 17, 2020Metacritic Score: 87PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Cinematic, ruthlessly beautiful and consistent throughout. Ghost of Tsushima is one of those games that’ll go down as one of the greatest PS5 exclusives of all time. Sucker Punch just got everything right here, offering an expansive samurai epic on par with Rockstar’s Red Dead Redemption II and FromSoftware’s slightly similar Sekiro. Take what made the original game such a hit on the PlayStation 4 and step that up with the PS5’s smooth frame rates – the combat moves so seamlessly and makes the entire experience feel more immersive. Those stunning visuals are all the better for it. The Director’s Cut is the ultimate way to play Ghosts of Tsushima, with tighter voice acting and various performance improvements that also maximise compatibility with the DualSense controller. Release Date: April 30 2022Metacritic Score: 86PlayStation Exclusive: Yes A tremendously difficult sci-fi shooter that comes with an unconventional concept – called Roguelike – and some of the best sound design in any game to date. That’s Returnal for you, and it’s going to be as divisive as hell. Hardcore gamers seem to love this AAA title, but casual gamers might want to approach this atmospheric space shooter with caution. Some may find this ambitious game more difficult than the likes of Elden Ring and Dark Souls III, which honestly says a lot. But hey, that high Metacritic score ain’t lying, and Returnal is a stunning game that’s both rewarding and immensely satisfying. Release Date: March 26, 2021Metacritic Score: 90PlayStation Exclusive: No This is a mass weapon of nostalgia, throwing it all the way back to Y2K when you would spend days in front of the PlayStation trying to get as much air time as possible with Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 2. Released for the PS5 on March 26, 2021, this is a fantastic remake by Vicarious Visions, touching on the two original games and elevating them to the new-gen with a confident, comprehensive package that captures all the greatness of yesteryear and boosts that with smooth frame rates and vastly improved graphics. Release Date: September 2, 2022Metacritic Score: 88PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Even though the classic original still doesn’t feel outdated, The Last of Us Part 1 has thankfully been thoughtfully remade for the PS5. And for those who haven’t played it before, there are very few PS5 games out there that are as good as this one – a perfect survival horror with a story so deep that it’s now the subject of HBO’s The Last of Us TV series by Craig Mazin and Neil Druckmann. The little said about this masterpiece the better. Release Date: April 23, 2019Metacritic Score: 88PlayStation Exclusive: No The ultimate version of the ultimate fighting game. There have been many Mortal Kombat games over the years, and it’s unlikely this ridiculously violent beat-em-up will ever stop, but there’s something about Mortal Kombat 11 that really refined the series to high art. Everyone from Scorpion and Sub-Zero to Goro and Raiden looks amazing, elevated thanks to the fluid frame rates that make each fight feel cinematic. Release Date: February 5, 2021Metacritic Score: 87PlayStation Exclusive: No If you love playing punishing, rewarding games like Bloodborne and Dark Souls, then you’d be remiss if you looked over Nioh. The deeply immersive samurai game is an easy pick if you’re looking for PS5 games with a sharp edge, pummelling you continuously with interesting boss fights and weaponry. A lot of people seemed to miss Nioh when it was first released for the PlayStation 4 in 2017, which is why packaging both games with all the necessary additional content is so valuable. Consider The Nioh Collection an absolute must if you fancy yourself an experienced gamer. Release Date: January 28, 2022Metacritic Score: 87PlayStation Exclusive: Yes In 2007, Uncharted: Darke’s Fortune kickstarted what has been one of Sony’s biggest moneymakers and most acclaimed franchises. The series was made to be a blockbuster, following Nathan Drake as he treasure hunts his way across the world and builds some of the most fascinating and thrilling action moments in video game history. You’ve surely already played an Uncharted game before, so the Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection should come with plenty of nostalgia for those who want to revisit the more recent Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End and an exceptionally remade Uncharted: The Lost Legacy. Release Date: March 15, 2022Metacritic Score: 81PlayStation Exclusive: No While we’re not holding our breath for a Grand Theft Auto V PS5 remake, Rockstar North doesn’t really need to try hard to make its blockbuster crime title stick for new-gen consoles. Grand Theft Auto V, now one of the most successful video games of all time, was mind-blowing back then and it’s still as incredible now. Release Date: October 26, 2018Metacritic Score: 96PlayStation Exclusive: No Here’s another Rockstar title that’s now become equal to Grand Theft Auto in terms of both acclaim and success. When Red Dead Redemption II was first released in 2018, Rockstar had successfully created a western thriller so deep, exciting and consistent that many claimed it was their greatest achievement to date. While that’s debatable, there’s certainly no denying Red Dead Redemption II its place in video game history. And if you’ve just got your hands on a PS5, then owning a piece of that history is pretty much mandatory. Unfortunately, the game is no longer part of the PS Plus Collection so PS5 users don’t have free and immediate access to it. Not to worry though, it’s still worth any amount of money considering how much you’ll get out of this game. Rockstar also hasn’t re-released the game for the PS5, so you’ll need to make do with the version that was built for the PS4. Luckily, that’s still quite advanced and makes great use of the PS5’s updated hardware. Release Date: September 8, 2022Metacritic Score: 80PlayStation Exclusive: No The greatest basketball game ever made? It’s certainly up there, considering 2K’s flagship NBA series has now reached an enviable level of success that most game developers could only dream of. Now with an expanded roster, incredible graphics and a genuinely engaging MyCareer mode, 2K Sports has clearly poured a lot into this iteration of the ongoing sports game series. And it’s one that longtime fans will be largely satisfied with, especially when you’ve got that crystal clear, fluid graphics making each and every game feel cinematic and special. Release Date: November 15, 2019Metacritic Score: 79PlayStation Exclusive: No While Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order was released for the PS4 in 2019, it was enhanced for the PS5 and now features native 4K with better textures and a reasonably smooth 30fps frame rate. While many fans think the game would have been even better as an open-world adventure, you’ve still got a highly engaging story and plenty of exploration to keep you glued to what is now one of the best Star Wars games of our time. You play as Jedi Padawan Cal Kestis, on the run from the Galactic Empire while trying to rebuild the fallen Jedi Order. The simple, fairly linear plot keeps things running along quite nicely as plenty of Star Wars nostalgia is packed in by developers Respawn Entertainment, helping to unlock a wholly original part of the Star Wars universe that takes place just a few years after the events of Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith. Release Date: November 12, 2020Metacritic Score: 83PlayStation Exclusive: Yes Astro’s Playroom isn’t a substantial effort Japan Studio’s Team Asobi division, but it’s still a playful follow-up to Astro Bot Rescue Mission conceived as a major showpiece title for the DualSense controller. It’s also just a great game, which is why it’s on this list of the best PS5 games you can play in 2023. Team Asobi has included a huge range of PlayStation nostalgia to make the puzzle solving feel like less of a choir and more like a fun standalone game that you won’t delete after just a few hours. While you may not want to revisit Astro’s Playroom as much as you would for a Nintendo native title like Wii Sports, it’s hard not to be charmed by the creative gameplay designed as a fantastic showcase and somewhat of an instructional manual for what the PS5 is all about. © 2024 BOSS HUNTING PTY LTD | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
A LUXITY MEDIA COMPANY