System requirements released intentionally this time too It looked like the upcoming PC version of Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart had already exhausted its supply of glossy, Windows-exclusive features to show off; we already knew it’s coming with DLSS, DLSS 3, FSR 2 and ray traced lighting and shadows. Turns out there’s plenty more, as port developers Nixxes Software have used a  Sony blog post to detail quite a few new tech toys – including Rift Apart’s Microsoft DirectStorage 1.2 support. DirectStorage is simultaneously one of the most exciting recent developments in gaming hardware, and one of the most underutilised: it basically adapts your PC’s process for reading data from an SSD or hard drive in a way that can massively reduce game loading times, but has so far only made it to prime time in Forspoken. I suppose the upside is that once Rift Apart is out on July 26th, DirectStorage’s compatible games list will increase by 100%? The blog post, penned by Nixxes Online Community Specialist Julian Huijbregts, also announces that Rift Apart’s PC version will also get fully new ray-traced ambient occlusion effects and – for those without an suitably RT-capable graphics card – support for Intel XeGTAO. This is another form of ambient occlusion that, according to the post, should go easier on performance than conventional AO techniques like SSAO and HBAO+. Rift Apart will in fact be the very first game to release with XeGTAO up and running. The post concludes with Rift Apart’s PC system requirements, which were already in the wild after the seemingly accidental publishing of a Steam announcement last week. Good thing I was too busy to write them up then so can just put them here now like it’s all brand new info, eh? Those who also follow console gaming news might recall how Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart acted as an advert for the PS5’s SSD, with developers Insomniac Games suggesting that the game’s instantaneous dimension-hopping mechanics were only possible with the data crunching speed of an NVMe drive. The lack of a hard SSD requirement in these specs indicates that may have been marketing puffery, though I’ll be interested to see if there’s more of a stretched-out transition when making those interreality jumps on a slower HDD. Then again, DirectStorage 1.2 works on mechanical drives as well as SSDs, so maybe that will help. I do think all of this stuff is encouraging: DirectStorage’s loading time cuts and texture streaming improvements show that PC tweaks aren’t just about purely aesthetic, shiny-shiny ray tracing baubles. And while I haven’t seen it in action yet, XeGTAO could be a welcome addition for those on lower-end systems. Some of Sony’s previous PlayStation ports haven’t gone well – The Last of Us Part 1 took months of post-release patches to get in order – but I have a good feeling about Rift Apart. ...Nobody quote that in the comments if it’s terrible. 
Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart
 
PS5, 
            PC
 
        Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming
       
        Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.
       

Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart system requirements, PC performance, and best settings to use                    
 Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.