                      by Talk Business & Politics staff ([email protected])  June 29, 2023 3:22 pm 1,234 views  The Oaklawn Jockey Club announced Thursday (June 29) that William “Bill” Cravens, who joined the Oaklawn Jockey Club Board of Directors in 1976, is retiring from the board. Cravens is a legendary figure in Arkansas’ accounting and banking community. He joined the Russell Brown and Company accounting firm in 1962. He joined the Oaklawn Jockey Club Board in 1976 where he has remained as a member until now. “Bill has been a trusted advisor to the Cella family for many years as a board member and friend,” said Oaklawn President Louis Cella. “He offered a constant and steady influence on our organization and while we’ll miss him in our Board meetings, we’ll continue to cherish his friendship.” “Bill Cravens has long been a mentor for me,” said Eric Jackson, former Oaklawn general manager. “He was always a phone call away to serve as a sounding board or to offer advice and suggestions on various matters.” Cravens worked as an industrial engineer, accountant, banker and entrepreneur throughout his long career. In banking, he made his mark as president and chief executive officer of First National Bank in Little Rock, where he later guided its merger with Commercial National Bank, forming First Commercial Bank. After a brief retirement, Cravens served as chairman of Alltel Information Services. Late in his career, he established Pinnacle Bank in Little Rock and served as its chairman. “Bill’s business philosophy is so simple, yet so effective: ‘Set a goal and meet it’”, said Cella. “That philosophy has served Oaklawn well for many years and we thank Bill for investing his energy, talents and knowledge into helping make Oaklawn what it is today.” Cravens is a 2013 inductee in the Arkansas Business Hall of Fame. Arkansas headlines delivered to you on demand 

 by Roby Brock by Dr. Sam Makhoul by Michael Tilley by Chuck Hyde by Scott Benedict 

  4 hours ago  15 hours ago  16 hours ago  17 hours ago  17 hours ago  3,069 views  1,695 views  898 views  879 views  792 views 
 
Talk Business & Politics is a news website that covers business, politics and culture in Arkansas. You can also sign up for daily e-mail news delivered every morning to your inbox.

 by Tina Alvey Dale by Talk Business & Politics staff