Share DuPage County Sheriff James Mendrick issued a statement earlier this month, saying he thought the state's new law banning assault weapons was unconstitutional and wouldn't enforce it. Some lawmakers have called the comments reckless. On Tuesday, that issue was the focus of a packed board meeting in DuPage County. DUPAGE COUNTY, Ill. - Gun violence was the main topic for the DuPage County Board meeting in the wake of mass shootings in California and controversy surrounding the assault weapons ban in Illinois. The county board meeting began with a moment of silence for the victims of the Lunar New Year mass shooting in California and recognition of all mass shootings so far this year. Outside, activists rallied for gun rights and in support of Sheriff James Mendrick, who stood up to the law. Mendrick issued a statement saying he would not enforce the new law, claiming it was unconstitutional and poorly written. Sheriff’s supporters and guns rights advocates were numerous at Tuesday's meeting. SUBSCRIBE TO FOX 32 ON YOUTUBE Elected officials and the public directed comments at Mendrick, who did not attend the meeting. They said his job was to enforce the law, not to interpret it. The board extended the public comment portion of the meeting to allow more people to talk. Nearly 300 people attended. All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. City of Chicago officials, alongside the United States Secret Service, will hold a series of daily public safety briefings during the Democratic National Convention. With all eyes on Chicago for the Democratic National Convention, several activist groups are planning on holding rallies and marches to draw attention to their platforms. The Democratic National Convention returns to Chicago today for the first time in 28 years to decide one half of a pivotal presidential election. Harris will formally accept her nomination on Thursday. The convention committee announced Sunday that several other prominent Democrats will join Biden in addressing the party throughout the week.  The Democratic National Convention is shutting down several streets in downtown Chicago, disrupting the travel of locals and visitors making their way across the city. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX Television Stations