Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Jason R. Rich
 
    Edited By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
Updated on:  June 26, 2024 / 2:15 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Flat-screen TVs are nice and thin, but that often means that the speakers aren't ideal. So, if you want to enhance sound quality from your TV, the thing to do is connect a soundbar. The best soundbars often generate "virtual" three-dimensional, spatial audio that replicates surround sound. But if you want an authentic, movie theater-like surround sound experience, you'll need to connect a complete surround sound system to your TV.  A surround sound system should include a soundbar and at least two satellite speakers. Speaker tech can now bounce sound off of walls and a ceiling, and adjust sound based on a room layout, but to generate the best audio, the more speakers integrated into the soundbar, the better. Our team of in-house tech experts has curated this roundup of the best TV surround sound systems available. Keep in mind, any surround sound system -- from any brand -- can be used with any make and model TV or projector. We do, however, recommend sticking with audio components from the same brand, which are often sold together as a bundle. Meanwhile, if all you need is a TV soundbar, be sure to check out our coverage of the six best TV soundbars for 2024. Included Components: Soundbar, subwoofer, rear speakers | Channels: 11.1.4 | Ports: HDMI, Optical Audio | Supported Codecs: Dolby Atmos, DTS:X, DTS HD, Dolby Digital Plus | Wireless Connectivity: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth | Special Features: Alexa and Apple AirPlay support, Game Mode Pro, Active Voice Amplifier feature | Soundbar Dimensions: 48.5 x 2.7 x 5.4 inches  Imagine filling your TV room with 22 powerful speakers designed to engulf you in audio. Well, you can expect that and more from the Samsung Q-Series Q990C surround sound system. When used with a Samsung TV (like the 2024 Frame smart TV or QN900D 8K TV) that supports it, in addition to utilizing Dolby Atmos, you get access to Samsung's own Q-Symphony sound. This means the speakers built into the TV will work in conjunction with the surround sound system. The soundbar alone offers 11 front-facing speakers. Using the Adaptive Sound function, the Q990C optimizes audio in real time to ensure dialogue can be heard clearly. For gamers, thanks to the Game Mode Pro feature, the sound system automatically adjusts to provide the most immersive audio possible when playing your favorite games. Whether you're watching TV shows, movies or sports, the Q990C offers a loud, clear and an overall impressive listening experience. Included with the system is a remote control and wall mounting kit. Included Components: Soundbar, wireless subwoofer, wireless satellite speakers | Channels: 5.1.2 | Ports: HDMI eARC, Optical, USB Type-A, 3.5mm audio | Supported Codecs: Dolby Atmos, Dolby TrueHD, DTS:X, Dolby Digital | Wireless Connectivity: Bluetooth | Special Features: 9 speakers built into the soundbar, Roku TV ready | Soundbar Dimensions: 36.2 x 3.5 x 2.4 inches Forget about cable clutter with this low-cost surround sound system. While the soundbar connects to the TV using an HDMI cable, the subwoofer and satellite speakers are wireless. What you get is a 5.1.2 channel sound system with a nine speaker array built into the soundbar itself.  The soundbar can project sound straight outwards, as well as to the left, right and upwards, so it bounces off the ceiling. With the help of Dolby Atmos and DTS:X, you'll enjoy immersive, true surround sound. The soundbar has several audio enhancement modes, including one for news, movies, sports, games and nighttime viewing.  The Hisense AX5125H system comes with the soundbar, wireless subwoofer, two satellite speakers, a remote control and a wall mounting kit -- all for around $300. It offers a really good value that's perfect for a TV in a bedroom or playroom. Like all Hisense products, this sound system uses higher-end tech, but it's sold at a price that's considerably less than the competition. Included Components: Soundbar, wireless subwoofer, satellite speakers | Channels: 5.1.2 | Ports: HDMI, Optical Audio, AUX | Supported Codecs: Dolby Atmos, DTS:X, PCM, Dolby Digital, Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby Atmos True HD, DTS, DTS HD | Wireless Connectivity: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth | Special Features: Google Chromecast, Apple Airplay 2 and Spotify Connect supported | Soundbar Dimensions: 4.4 x 4.1 x 3.1 inches Ideal for smaller rooms, the Polk Audio Magnifi Mini AX generates big, crisp, clear sound. The system generates true surround sound and supports a wide range of audio codecs, including Dolby Atmos, DTS:X and Polk's own 3D audio technology. This is also one of the few soundbars to support Google Chromecast, Apple AirPlay 2, Spotify Connect, as well as Bluetooth wireless connectivity. This means you can wirelessly stream audio content from your computer, as well as an iOS or Android mobile device, directly to the sound system. The soundbar itself connects to your TV via an HDMI, Optical Audio or AUX cable and is Roku TV ready. The other components in the system are wireless. If hearing clear dialogue is essential, simply activate the VoiceAdjust feature. The soundbar's center speaker enhances clarity of voices without affecting the rest of the audio.  Using the included remote, you can easily switch between a handful of audio presents. While the sound quality, size and design of the Polk Audio MagniFi Mini AX soundbar is truly impressive, our biggest complaint is the larger size of the included wireless subwoofer. It measures 15.6 x 14.6 x 7.2 inches and is designed to be placed on the ground, away from the soundbar. The rest of the components are compact and unobtrusive. Included Components: Soundbar, wireless subwoofer, satellite speakers | Channels: 7.1.3 | Ports: HDMI | Supported Codecs: Dolby Atmos, Dolby Digital, Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby TrueHD, DTS:X, DTS Digital Surround | Wireless Connectivity: Bluetooth, Wi-Fi | Special Features: AirPlay 2, Spotify Connect, and Amazon Alexa support, 24-bit audio upsampling | Soundbar Dimensions: 49.2 x 5.3 x 2.5 inches Sure, the LG S90TR surround sound system is the perfect companion to an LG Evo G4 or Evo C4 series television or LG projector, but it'll also work nicely with any brand.  In addition to Dolby Atmos and DTS:X support for generating immersive audio, the soundbar itself has triple up-firing speakers that work seamlessly with the subwoofer and two-channel wireless rear speakers to generate 670 watts of audio power. The center up-firing channel makes dialogue sound like it's originating from the center of your TV. This makes it easier to understand and sound more realistic The system has preset audio modes including Standard, Bass Blast, Bass Blast+, AI Sound Pro, Cinema, Game, Music and Sports, so whatever you're watching or listening to will sound clear and robust. Each time the sound system is used, it scans the listening space and the position of the TV viewers. It then automatically adjusts volume and delay to create the ideal, true surround sound listening experience for everyone. Plus, using AI, basic two-channel sound is upscaled to become multi-channel audio that offers a deeper and fuller overall sound. Included Components: Soundbar, subwoofer, satellite speakers | Channels: 5.1.2 | Ports: HDMI eARC | Supported Codecs: Dolby Atmos, Stereo PCM, Dolby Digital, Dolby Digital Plus, Dolby TrueHD, Multichannel PCM, Dolby Multichannel PCM, DTS:X | Wireless Connectivity: Wi-Fi, Apple AirPlay 2 | Special Features: The soundbar offers up-firing speakers for a multi-dimensional soundstage| Soundbar Dimensions: 44.96 x 4.57 x 3.34 inches This Sonos bundle includes the premium Sonos Arc soundbar, Sub (Gen 3) wireless subwoofer and two Era 300 satellite speakers that are sold together as a surround sound system bundle. What you wind up with is multi-channel surround sound with powerful bass and realistic sounding spatial audio (with the help of Dolby Atmos). The Sonos Arc is our top pic for best premium soundbar, so it makes sense that when you add the additional audio components, the system becomes our pick for best premium TV surround sound system. This sound system does a great job presenting audio from your favorite TV shows, sports, movies and games, but it also includes speech enhancement technology that ensures all dialogue sounds crystal clear. One of the great things about all Sonos audio systems is that they work with all Sonos speakers, so expanding the system or creating a multi-room listening experience is simple (albeit rather expensive). You also get superior control over your listening experience using the Sonos mobile app. Another positive thing about Sonos is that you're not just paying for a premium brand name. You actually get premium quality audio components, too. If you're shopping for any type of TV, we recommend checking out our coverage of the six best TVs for 2024, the five best OLED TVs for 2024, the six best 55-inch TVs, the six best 65-inch TVs of 2024, the the 7 best 75-inch (and larger) TVs of 2024, and the five best TVs for video gamers. We've also compiled a curated collection of the five best home projectors for 2024. Remember, all of our latest tech coverage, which is continuously updated, is here to help you. Jason R. Rich (www.JasonRich.com) is an internationally recognized consumer technology expert with more than 30 years' writing experience. He's also an accomplished author and photographer. One of his most recently published books, The Remote Worker's Handbook: How to Effectively Work From Anywhere ($24.99, Entrepreneur Books) is now available from Amazon and wherever books are sold. 
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          Hinge and Bumble are two of the most popular dating apps of 2024. We compare the two to see which is better.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the New Orleans Saints face the San Francisco 49es for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the Green Bay Packers face the Denver Broncos for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          The Premier League Chelsea vs. Manchester City soccer game will be played today. Find out how and when to watch.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Jaden Brunz, an 18-year-old artist, turned a risky graffiti project into a promising opportunity with the help of Sioux Falls Mayor Paul TenHaken.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Labor Day weekend will mark the end of the summer travel season. Here's how Americans are capping it off.
         
          A U.S. district judge said in her ruling that FuboTV was likely to be successful in proving that the joint venture would violate antitrust laws.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          As Democrats gather in Chicago for their national convention, parallels to the turbulent 1968 Democratic National Convention are apparent.
         
          Democrats from across the country are descending on Chicago for the convention, where the party will rally around Harris — and her new running mate — as the party's nominees.
         
          Three presidents, leaders in Congress and other prominent members of the party are expected to address the Democratic National Convention.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          Mark Twitchell, a Canadian filmmaker, is dubbed "The Dexter Killer" because of the numerous links between the TV series and his real-life crimes.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Vice President Kamala Harris will accept the Democratic nomination for president this week at the DNC in Chicago. Meanwhile, former President Donald Trump will hit battleground states to rally voters. CBS News campaign reporters Aaron Navarro and Jake Rosen have more.
         
          Former New York Rep. George Santos is expected to plead guilty to several felony fraud charges Monday, CBS News has learned. Santos has been facing criticism for fabricating details about his past and allegedly misusing donor credit card information. CBS News' Scott MacFarlane has more.
         
          Legendary daytime talk show host Phil Donahue has died at age 88, his publicist confirmed to CBS News. The White House called Donahue's show one of the most influential TV programs of its time. Donahue received the Presidential Medal of Freedom earlier this year for his contributions to American television. Dave Quinn, a senior news editor at People, joins CBS News with more.
         
          The Democratic National Convention in Chicago will host a variety of speakers outlining the party's agenda ahead of Vice President Kamala Harris' keynote address accepting the nomination for president. CBS News Minnesota's Caroline Cummings has more on those expected to speak.
         
          Severe weather slammed the Northeast, causing flooding, road damage and mudslides. In Connecticut, some roads collapsed under the weight of flash floods. CBS News correspondent Nikki Battiste reports from Sandy Hook, and CBS News meteorologist Grant Gilmore has the latest weather forecast.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.