JEA and St. Johns County Utility Department have issued boil water advisories to their customers after a water main break in southern Duval County. JEA issued the precautionary boil water advisory for more than 25,000 of its customers after a water main break near Philips Highway and Greenland Road, JEA said. The utility said customers “in the southeast portion of JEA’s service territory, including the Philips Highway corridor south to Nocatee communities, may experience poor pressures or no water.” The utility is encouraging customers to conserve water. JEA shared the following map of the areas affected by the advisory: Precautionary Boil Water Advisory by ActionNewsJax on Scribd  JEA said its crews are working to repair the main as quickly and safely as possible. The utility said it will directly contact impacted customers by phone, email, and/or text with specific information and updates. The St. Johns County Utility Department also issued a boil water notice as a result of the water main break for its customers along U.S. 1, located north of Stokes Landing, south of County Road 210 West, and along International Golf Parkway east of St. Marks Pond are served by this water main. This area includes but is not limited to the following communities: Twin Creeks Beacon Lakes Walden Chase Palencia Las Calinas Florentine Kensington [DOWNLOAD: Free Action News Jax app for alerts as news breaks] SJCUD Customers with questions are encouraged to call Customer Service at 904-209-2700, or the boil water notice hotline at 904-209-2731. Impacted customers are advised to bring water to a rolling boil for at least one minute before drinking, food preparation, brushing teeth or cooking. The water main break affected Atlantic Coast High School on Tuesday. The following letter was sent to parents by Principal Dr. Michael George: “Good morning Stingray family, “This is Dr. George, your principal. We have just made an announcement to all staff and students that water has been cutoff for our campus. At this time, the water is out in the surrounding communities due to a water main break and we do not have an anticipated time for water service to be turned back on. “We have been coordinating with district leadership and JEA to determine the cause and estimated time of restoration. “We do have lunch already prepared for our students but we currently have our restrooms closed and water fountains off. We encourage you to check restoration updates on JEA and direct your timing questions to them. “We will provide an update within the next 30 minutes regarding next steps.” [SIGN UP: Action News Jax Daily Headlines Newsletter] An updated message was sent to ACHS families, saying emergency water was able to be restored to a portion of the building: “Stingrays, “Quick update on the water situation … because we are a designated hurricane shelter site, our district plumbing staff was able to turn on emergency water access to a portion of our building. “Lunches will continue as scheduled. Students will be directed to the gym to use the restrooms. “We will continue the school day as normal, regardless of JEA’s timetable for water restoration. “Thank you for your patience and understanding.” Click here to download the free Action News Jax news and weather apps, click here to download the Action News Jax Now app for your smart TV and click here to stream Action News Jax live. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.