Airfares are generally pretty high this summer. But there are still deals to be had, especially for flights within the U.S. Southwest Airlines has a sale through June 1 for flights throughout the summer and into the fall, with tickets available for as little as $59 one-way, and Norse Atlantic Airways announced deals to Europe. As always with these deals, there are restrictions and not all flights are covered by the sale, but if your schedule is flexible and you’re looking to sneak in a getaway, you may be in luck. Here’s what’s in the fine print. Cruising Altitude: Here's what United Airlines' former CEO told me about flying coach If you book by June 1, you may be able to get one-way tickets on Southwest for as little as $59 to many destinations, including Hawaii, Puerto Rico and international locales. According to the airline, travel under the deal generally must take place on Tuesdays or Wednesdays between June 13 and Nov. 1. Flights between Hawaii, Puerto Rico or international destinations and the U.S. mainland must take place between Aug. 8 and Nov. 1. The sale fares are nonrefundable but are eligible for Southwest credits if the trip gets canceled, though fare differences for rebooked flights will apply. Southwest does not guarantee sale fare availability, saying in the terms that “seats and days are limited. Fares may vary by destination, flight, and day of week and won't be available on some flights that operate during very busy travel times and holiday periods.” All Southwest fares include up to two free checked bags. Tell us your story: Mobility device lost or damaged by an airline? USA TODAY wants to hear about it. Low cost airline Norse Atlantic is also marketing deals on certain flights between the U.S. and Europe. These include $189 one-way flights from New York to London and Berlin, as well as $219 one-way fares between Fort Lauderdale and Oslo, and $279 one-way fares between Los Angeles and Oslo. According to Norse, the promotional rates are subject to availability and may not be available on every flight. Zach Wichter is a travel reporter for USA TODAY based in New York. You can reach him at zwichter@usatoday.com This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: What to know about Southwest Airlines' $59 summer fare sale New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.