Netflix took home six Oscars last night, besting all the other streaming services, but a single film, Everything, Everywhere All at Once, dominated the biggest awards. It claimed three of four of the acting awards, along with Best Director and Best Picture. Netflix’s All Quiet on the Western Front won Oscars for Best International Feature, Best Cinematography, Best Production Design and, perhaps surprisingly, Best Original Score. Netflix also claimed Best Animated Feature trophy for Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio, while Apple TV+ – the only other streaming service to win anything – claimed Best Animated Short Film with The Boy, the Mole, the Fox, and the Horse. However, it’ll be a muted celebration compared to last year, when Apple won the first-ever Best Picture Oscar for a streaming service with CODA. – Mat Smith The Morning After isn’t just a newsletter – it’s also a daily podcast. Get our daily audio briefings, Monday through Friday, by subscribing right here. Netflix comedy series 'I Think You Should Leave' comes back on May 30th  Hitting the Books: How 20th-century science unmade Newton's universe  ‘Ted Lasso’ returns with a stronger, more focused third season Ring Car Cam hands-on: Amazon's video security ecosystem hits America's highways eBay's first union is formed of workers at a trading card marketplace  According to a report from The Wall Street Journal, Elon Musk is attempting to build a company town for Tesla, Boring and SpaceX workers. The mooted town, around 35 miles from Austin, Texas, would likely be called Snailbrook. The plan would encompass 110 homes next to Boring and SpaceX facilities in Bastrop County. The report states Boring employees were invited last year to apply for housing, with rents expected to start at around $800 per month for a two- or three-bedroom home. The median rent in nearby Bastrop is around $2,200 a month. Continue reading.  Audi is the latest automaker to dip into upscale e-bikes, with a pricey electric mountain bike that takes design cues from its RS Q E-tron E2 electric Dakar Rally racer. Built by Italy's Fantic, it combines a 250W Brose motor with a 720Wh battery, but Audi hasn’t announced the range or top speeds yet. Like other Brose-powered e-bikes, the ride has four levels of electric assistance ranging from a mild Eco through to the all-out Boost mode. The Audi electric mountain bike comes in three sizes, but you'll need to act quickly and have a large bank balance. The bike is only available as a "limited run" model priced at £8,499 (about $10,200) in the UK. Continue reading. US regulators have announced they're acting to "fully" protect all deposits at Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). The institution is home to many startups and established companies, like Roku and Etsy, which will have full access to their funds as of today. At the same time, officials said there will be "no bailouts." On top of SVB, regulators closed Signature Bank on the weekend. It's one of the largest banks used by cryptocurrency companies, and Crypto exchange Coinbase had $240 million in deposits at the bank. In a joint statement, federal regulators said, "all depositors of this institution will [also] be made whole." Continue reading. SpaceX’s Crew-5 mission has safely returned to Earth. On Saturday evening, the company’s Endurance Dragon spacecraft splashed down off the coast of Florida, following a five-month stay at the International Space Station. The capsule was carrying NASA astronauts Josh Cassada and Nicole Mann, Japan’s Koichi Wakata and Russian cosmonaut Anna Kikina. Not on the flight was NASA astronaut Frank Rubio, who flew to the ISS on MS-22, the Russian Soyuz spacecraft that sprung a coolant leak late last year following an apparent micrometeoroid strike. The Endurance crew temporarily retrofitted their ride to carry Rubio in case of an emergency evacuation from the ISS after Roscomos determined MS-22 could only safely transport two people. Fortunately, there’s now a replacement craft at the ISS. Continue reading. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Apple Podcasts on the web now allows you to do a whole lot more than just listen. Amazon's revived Echo Spot is back on sale, this time for $55. The Echo Show 5 and Echo Dot are on sale too. Gamescom 2024 is almost here. Exhibitors from over 60 countries will descend on Cologne, Germany, for what is now the industry’s biggest gaming event following E3’s demise. You can watch the opening-night showcase right here on Tuesday, August 20. Here is a list of the best PC games you can get right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. The biggest news stories this morning:   Fortnite returns to iOS, How to choose the best TV for gaming right now, Microsoft boosts Windows’ FAT32 partition size limit. Here's a guide to picking the best TVs for 4K gaming, plus a few of the best gaming TVs you can get right now. The US Department of Transportation has laid out a plan to deploy vehicle-to-everything tech across the country. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries on America's roadways. X owner Elon Musk says that the company is shutting down operations in Brazil effective immediately. The company claims one of its legal representatives was threatened with arrest if it did not "comply with his censorship orders." In an Instagram story, Adam Mosseri has revealed that the app is testing a vertical grid for users' profiles. A recap of recent Engadget reviews, including our impressions of the Dyson OnTrac, Pixel 9 Pro Fold and Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. How to watch all of Xbox's Gamescom streams. All told, there are four events to check out. The company revealed that it did suffer a security breach wherein people's names, emails, addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers and mailing addresses had been stolen. A federal court granted an injunction against Fox-Disney-Warner's planned launch for Venu Sports. Google says the wording that was in a form sent out to Team Pixel members for device access "missed the mark" and has been removed. OpenAI says it thwarted an Iranian influence campaign that used ChatGPT to generate fake news stories and social posts in English and Spanish. In a blog post on Friday, the company wrote that it identified and banned accounts generating content for five websites pretending to be news outlets. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.