New York Jets general manager Joe Douglas speaks during a press conference at the NFL football scouting combine in Indianapolis, Wednesday, March 2, 2022. (AP INDIANAPOLIS – Jets general manager Joe Douglas stepped onto stage No. 3 at the NFL Scouting Combine on Tuesday, looked into the crowd of reporters and smiled. “I’m sure you guys have a lot of questions about the safeties,” Douglas said, drawing laughter from a crowd that immediately peppered Douglas with questions about the team’s uncertain quarterback situation. The Jets’ pursuit of free agent Derek Carr, and the possibility of trading for Packers legend Aaron Rodgers, once again dominated the news cycle for Douglas and the Jets. But this is a big, important offseason for the Jets and there was plenty more ground covered during Douglas’ session with reporters Tuesday. Want to bet on the NFL? See the best NJ Sports Betting sites Here’s what stood out. Long-term deal close for Quinnen Williams? A day after the 2022 season ended in early January, Quinnen Williams made his intentions clear: he wanted a big-money extension, and he wanted it quickly – threatening to sit out of the voluntary parts of the team’s offseason program if the Jets didn’t get a deal done by April. Well, there’s still no deal done. But Douglas said he’s been working closely with Williams’ agent, Nicole Lynn. “We’ve had several good discussions with Nicole and Quinnen since the season [ended],” Douglas said. “And we feel really good about where we’re at. I feel good that this process is going to play out in the right way.” Williams wouldn’t say how much he was seeking to get paid, but hinted that he wanted to be paid as one of the best defensive tackles in the game. Aaron Donald makes $31.7 million per year, the most of any interior defensive lineman. Leonard Williams is next at $21 million per year. Quinnen Williams could command north of $25 million, given his age (25) and improving skills (he set a career high with 12 sacks last year). Will Corey Davis, Carl Lawson get cut? Several teams have cleared salary cap space in recent days by moving on from some big names or restructuring contracts. And the Jets, who currently are about $264,000 over the cap, according to OverTheCap.com, are certainly a candidate to do the same. They could clear nearly $26 million in cap space by moving on from Carl Lawson ($15.4 million) and Corey Davis ($10.5 million) before they hit the final year of their contract. But Douglas seemed to hint that the Jets might prefer to keep them around by restructuring their deals. “Notice that some teams are doing some of these restructures now,” Douglas said. “We haven’t begun that process. We feel confident … we hardly have any money pro-rated into the future on our salary cap so we have great flexibility to create very large amounts of cap space if necessary. So we’ve talked, we’ve had some initial discussions about the avenues of doing that, but I don’t anticipate that happening until after the Combine.” Banking on Becton? Quarterback isn’t the only key position Douglas must fix on that side of the ball, as his offensive line remains a huge question mark heading into 2023. And one big question mark is Mekhi Becton, who looked to be in great shape at the end of the season and said that he has committed himself like never before to staying on top of his game. But Becton has missed 33 of the last 34 games because of knee injuries and hasn’t completed a full game since his 2020 rookie season. So can the Jets count on him as a starter in 2023? Douglas didn’t give a definitive answer. “For any of you guys who were here in the 2020 season, you saw what a healthy Mekhi can do on the football field and how dominant a player that he was as a rookie, early in his rookie year,” Douglas said. “And unfortunately, the last few years have been frustrating from an injury standpoint, but I can tell you that Mekhi is in as good of a place now as I’ve seen him in a long time. And he’s working his tail off, and he wants to be the best player that he can be for the New York Jets.” Projecting blockbuster Giants trade for All-Pro wide receiver Yankees-Dodgers trade brewing after terrible Gavin Lux injury? NFL Draft 2023: Giants add playmaker in ESPN’s Mel Kiper Jr.’s latest 1st-round mock Marriott tries exploiting legal loophole in ex-Cowboys star Michael Irvin’s $100 million lawsuit Douglas also declined to answer a question about Becton’s fifth-year option, noting that the Jets don’t have to decide if they want to pick it up until after the draft. Spoiler alert: the Jets won’t be picking up the fifth-year option on a player that has missed the vast majority of snaps through his first three years. And ultimately, that answers the first question: yes, it would be nice for Becton to be a starter, but Douglas and the Jets cannot go into 2023 banking on it. And it doesn’t sound as if Douglas will be. “As I’ve said before, o-line, D-line are going to be a high priority for us,” Douglas said. “Always. And so if there’s an opportunity to upgrade tackle, center, guard, d-tackle, d-end, we’re probably going to look to do it.” Could Duane Brown return? Becton’s inability to stay healthy leaves the Jets in an interesting position with another key player from 2022: starting left tackle Duane Brown, who returned to play 12 games last year after suffering a shoulder injury just before the start of the regular season that cost him the first four games of the year. Douglas said Brown, 38, had surgery in recent days to repair the shoulder. The Jets have praised Brown repeatedly for opting to play through his injury instead of having season-ending surgery to repair it, which was an option back in September when the injury happened. “For him to do what he did last year,” Douglas said. “For him to play with the injury that he played with, which I don’t think we could find a documented tackle that played with the injury that he had for an entire year, it’s a special thing.” Douglas said there haven’t been discussions yet with Brown about returning in 2023. He’s under contract for a cap hit of about $11.3 million. The Jets would save about $5 million if they cut him. “I haven’t had those discussions,” Douglas said. “I don’t think coach [Robert Saleh] has had those discussions with Duane yet … I know that we hold him in very high regard as a person and a player, so let him recover a little bit and we’ll have those discussions as the offseason progresses.” Similar to Becton, the Jets can’t bank on Brown staying healthy as he approaches 40, so keeping him as a depth option would make sense but keeping him as a projected starter would be asking for trouble. Injury updates Douglas said that running back Breece Hall (torn ACL), offensive lineman Alijah Vera-Tucker (triceps) and Max Mitchell (blood clots) are all “doing great” in their recovery from season-ending injuries last year. When asked specifically about Hall, who was contending for offensive rookie of the year before he went down in Week 7, Douglas said that he’s expected to be ready for the start of the season this fall. Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription. Andy Vasquez may be reached at avasquez@njadvancemedia.com If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices