New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman admitted the obvious Wednesday. Speaking with reporters while the team was on a nine-game losing streak, its longest since 1982, Cashman responded to the first question by calling this season "a disaster" and questioning whether anyone could've seen it coming. "It's been a disaster, this season," he said. "It's definitely a shock. Certainly, I don't think anybody on our side of the fence, from our player group, from our coaches, our manager or even outside the organization, would've predicted this." The team's season is all but over, given that it's 9.5 games back from the third AL wild-card spot. The nine-game losing streak included sweeps at the hands of the Miami Marlins, Atlanta Braves and Boston Red Sox. The streak finally ended Wednesday, with a blowout 9-1 win over the Washington Nationals. Yankees star Aaron Judge hit three home runs in the contest, marking the first three-homer game of his career. With the victory, the Yankees improved to 61-65. So much has gone wrong for a team that a major projection system viewed as the best team in baseball before the season, from injuries to underperformance to plain bad luck. And there have been some embarrassing missteps along the way. Cashman said that New York will take the time it usually spends in the playoffs to evaluate what went wrong this year and that he has already had several meetings with chairman Hal Steinbrenner: "Well, we're gonna evaluate it all, clearly. Unfortunately, we're gonna have some time to do that. But let's say everybody's had a little bit of a hand in it, from top to bottom, and it's our job to find out where. Obviously, that's what we're going to be up to and tasked with. I certainly met with Hal Steinbrenner on several occasions already, and this is not something we're accustomed to or used to. There's definitely going to be a lot of internal assessments going on here." The Yankees haven't finished below .500 since 1992 and are obviously on pace for that. Even when they last missed the playoffs in 2016, they got something out of it by trading names such as Aroldis Chapman and Andrew Miller for significant prospects. They didn't do that this season, with deals to add relievers Keynan Middleton and Spencer Howard representing their only trade-deadline moves. The big question now is if there is any reason to hope the Yankees will be better next season. They might be healthier, yes, but that's never a guarantee when everyone will be a year older. If they don't improve, the seats might get hot for both Cashman and manager Aaron Boone. Cashman at least promised that the issue hasn't been a lack of trying among players: "The fight is there. The care is there. The intent is there. Being a part of this organization for quite some time, I do know the difference when you're bad ... I can just tell you, putting yourself into a player's seat, if they're at the plate, for instance, they do not want to fail. If they're on the mound, they do not want to fail either, and they're all collectively trying to do the best they possibly can to to stop what's happening to us or is occurring now for a sustained period of time." Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder.