In life sciences, every activity along the value chain must be done with an unrelenting emphasis on quality and compliance. By Aparna Seksaria, Global Practice Lead R&D Solutions – Life Sciences, SAP The network among life sciences supply chain organizations have been ahead of their time in the best possible way. Long before supply delays and turbulence gripped the global economy, they have steadily created networks that exchange products across multiple smaller ingredient suppliers, contract research organizations, manufacturers, and packers. And every activity along the value chain is done with an unrelenting emphasis on quality and compliance. To fulfill their role in this network framework, nearly one-third of midsize life sciences companies are increasing their emphasis on supplier and partner networks as a top driver for efficiency, according to an SAP Insights study. The other priorities that rounded out their top five include divesting inefficient businesses, bringing supply chains closer to markets, and allowing employees to choose their preferred work environment. Fortunately, surveyed midsize organizations recognize that many of these focus areas are related and can be tackled together strategically. As the report notes: "By having the right tools to automate lower-value tasks, gain real-time insights, and collaborate with colleagues, employees can be more productive and successful. They can produce effective outcomes ‒ such as cost reduction, R&D productivity improvement, and accelerated delivery of products to market faster." Fulfilling the conditions of one customer in the life sciences industry is challenging. And those requirements multiply with each new customer, so midsize organizations face the challenge of overlapping specifications, incompatible protocols, unique data, and constrained resource capacity. And these realities create an environment where standardized work, information exchange, and communication still need to be consolidated and provide opportunities for developing standards for the larger ecosystem to adopt. In an industry where most ingredient suppliers, contract research organizations, manufacturers, and packers operate in the same space, point-to-point integrations should be eliminated. Instead, organizations could leverage the same infrastructure and established lines of partner onboarding and information exchange mechanisms. Business networks enable midsize organizations to gain a balanced, connected approach to critical procurement, supply chain management, and logistics challenges. For example, they can collaborate directly with their customers to reduce costs, mitigate risk, and improve operational efficiency while optimizing planning with shared forecasts and transparency into multiple supply chain tiers. In addition, networks can provide access to a strong procurement ecosystem of registered entities to find alternative suppliers or additional customers. When midsize organizations unify every participant in their supply chain into a single network, they drive the resiliency and transparency necessary to remain on a high-growth trajectory. This connectedness improves visibility into the freight order lifecycle to complete transactions, manage goods in transit, notify stakeholders of deviations, and monitor fulfillment performance. Organizations can collaborate on a single version of the truth with their trading partners for optimal asset data integrity and service efficiency. Plus, they can preserve working capital by taking control of lead times, delivery targets, and stock shortages. Through these capabilities of networks, midsize organizations can strengthen the entire clinical value chain for both themselves and their customers. They help ensure quality standards are met and data is exchanged in compliant formats. Using the same infrastructure also lowers the risk of exposing confidential business relationships, intellectual property, or classified information when communicating trial timelines, research observations, projected inventory needs, and other business matters. Inherent in the life sciences industry is a commitment to producing high-quality, life-saving, and life-enriching products and making them more accessible to everyone. But achieving such a big goal responsibly and profitably requires a modern approach to business operations. By using networks, midsize organizations can run more intelligent and integrated supply chains that are purpose-built for today's digitally connected economy as well as the future. Organizations can gain and share visibility into manufacturing processes and give partners and customers access to real-time data and insights. But more importantly, they can leverage analytical and enabling tools and services to enable data-driven decision-making – a hallmark of an industry supply chain leader. To learn more, read the SAP Insights paper "The Transformation Mindset: How Growing Life Sciences Companies Scale Profitably and Sustainably."  