A family is thankful to be safe after their boat sank to the bottom of Lake Murray during the annual Fourth of July boat parade. The Burlesons were lined up with their two children for the boat parade Saturday when heavy waves caused by the wake of passing boats overtook their craft and it began to sink from taking on the water. “Our boat was a small 16-foot 1983 beechcraft,” Nichole Burleson wrote on the family’s GoFundMe fundraiser. “As our nose dipped from going over one wake, another huge one went straight over the open bow and over took our boat.” The family escaped with only minor cuts and bruises, she said, but their boat — along with their cell phones, keys, tools and other belongings — was underwater within seconds. A military family who just moved to the area after Burleson’s husband was posted to Fort Jackson, they were worried about how to afford the cost of retrieving their boat from the lake. “We are dealing with a family member dying of cancer, our home hvac system just went out, and our transmission on my van,” Burleson wrote on the fundraising website. “So we have no savings left to put towards this cost.” But salvage companies have reportedly offered to help the family get their boat back free of charge. “It was a military family, someone that’s defending our freedom, in a boat parade, celebrating the country’s birth of its freedom,” Rick Kahn, owner of Tow Boat US, told WACH FOX. “And they have an unfortunate accident were the boat goes down. It just kinda hit us hard, and we realized it’s something we had to help with.” Kahn told WLTX his crew would “go out on Tuesday morning at nine and run some GPS searches in some of the locations ... where the boat supposedly went down,” he said. Divers would then work to pull the sunken beechcraft out of Lake Murray, a service that would normally cost the family thousands of dollars. Not that the family is eager to get back on the water anytime soon. Burleson told the TV stations her children are now too frightened to get back in a boat. “They were scared of the boat regardless,” she told WLTX. “This was a nail in the coffin for boating.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.