If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on Dec. 29, 2022
 
By: Christy Bieber
 Writer  KEY POINTS Sometimes, life circumstances lead to money moves you otherwise wouldn't make. Paying cash when buying a home is not the smartest financial move. In fact, even opting for a mortgage loan with a short pay-off timeline usually doesn't make sense. There's a few key reasons for that. First, it's hard to get money out of your home, so tying up a bunch of cash in an illiquid investment isn't a great idea. Second, mortgage interest is usually pretty affordable (even at today's high rates), and can be tax deductible so it's usually a better idea to get a mortgage and invest your cash in other things. Even though I've repeatedly written about why it's not a good idea to buy a home outright, I had to do exactly that last year. My husband and I needed to purchase a property and we had to pay cash for it. Here's why that's the case -- and why I don't regret my choice.




 The biggest reason why paying cash on a property made sense for us is because doing so allowed us to be competitive in a seller's market without having to pay more than our home was worth. My husband and I had to buy a home during the heart of the buying frenzy and properties were routinely selling for above asking price. We didn't want to get into a bidding war. Because we were cash buyers, though, we were able to get a good deal on a home that people needed to sell quickly. Our sellers needed to be out of the house ASAP because they were having disputes with the HOA, so they accepted our all-cash offer with a very quick closing date even though they could have gotten more for the property had they waited. Since we didn't have to wait for a lender or worry about an appraisal, our cash purchase made us competitive buyers despite not being willing to overpay -- and that was worth it to us. One of the biggest reasons not to pay cash for a property is because of the opportunity cost. But my husband and I did not have to give up on our other investments when we paid cash for our home. We used the proceeds we'd made from selling another house to buy it. Since we still had plenty of other money invested and weren't reducing our deposits into our brokerage account, I didn't worry about putting my future security at risk (or tying up cash I might need) by buying the house with cash. Finally, the last reason I didn't mind paying cash is because we don't intend to stay in this home for more than a few years. It is a temporary one while we wait for the market to calm down and for a house we really want to come on the market at a price we're willing to pay. When we move into our next house, we have the option to get out of this property, get our money back, and make a choice about whether we want to get a mortgage. Since I wasn't tying up cash forever, I felt better about the choice. My situation shows that sometimes money rules have to be broken -- and it can make sense to do so. The important thing is to look at the pros and cons and decide what's the best option for your personal circumstance, rather than just following conventional wisdom in every case. 
Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with 15 years of experience. She has a JD from UCLA and is a former college instructor.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.