The bloodsucking lore of the chupacabra is getting the CGI treatment and rebranding itself into a cute and cuddly creature. Netflix's "Chupa" (streaming now) – the adventure-fantasy film directed by Mexican filmmaker Jonás Cuarón, co-writer of the Oscar-winning film "Gravity" and son of "Roma" director Alfonso Cuarón – follows a shy 13-year-old Alex (Evan Whitten) who travels from Kansas City to Mexico to meet his grandfather Chava (Demián Bichir). On his grandfather's ranch, Alex meets a new furry, mythical friend and the two embark on a whirlwind adventure. Cuarón tells USA TODAY that working on "Chupa" was not only exciting but a "very personal story for me." Growing up in Mexico in the '90s, and being around the same age as Alex in the film, Cuarón pulled from his memory of the first time he heard of the legend of the chupacabra. "As a kid, those things were exciting," he says. The trailer for "Chupa" – starring Bichir, Whitten and Christian Slater – shows a nervous Alex, still mourning the death of his father, being sent to Mexico by his mother amid sightings of the chupacabra dominating broadcast news. "He'll be our little secret," Chava tells Alex upon meeting the Chupa, who also warns him of "bad people out there" (scientist Richard Quinn, played by Slater) hunting the misunderstood creature to try and harness his powers. The chupacabra, which translates to goat-sucker in English, was reportedly first spotted in the early '90s in Puerto Rico. As the story goes, sightings then spread across Latin America with people believing the creature attacked and drank the blood of livestock, including goats. "There was a frightening element about it but there's also so much curiosity and excitement about something magical being around you," Cuarón says. "It's fascinating how Latin American culture works and how easy prey we are," Bichir adds. "That creature never existed, are you kidding me? That's exactly why I think it's brilliant, that we took that crazy time of our history and converted it into a beautiful fantasy." A chupacabra?: Texas zoo seeks help identifying 'strange' creature captured on camera As oral historians, grandparents use their gift of storytelling to keep traditions alive, bestow unforgettable life lessons, and retell the folklore of their times. "Growing up surrounded by two big Mexican families, I know that grandparents are truly the carriers of the family narrative," Cuarón says. "Everything you need to know about life is right there in our parents and grandparents' experiences," Bichir added. "Alex goes through this interpersonal journey when he goes back to his roots and reconnects with his grandfather and at the same time with his late father." "Chupa" is about the importance of "trusting your family in order to overcome grief and any other growing pains," Bichir says. It's about believing in yourself and reconnecting with your roots. "I don't see this as a Latino or Mexican film," the actor adds. "It's a universal story about how we connect to our family." "It also shows the importance of (basking) in the magic that there is in the world," says Cuarón. 15 must-watch shows starring Latinos: 'Los Espookys,' 'With Love,' 'Superstore,' more Cuarón flips the previously horrific chupacabra folklore on its back and creates what Bichir calls a "loving little creature." Production went through many iterations of the Chupa and based the design on real animals while also "playing with something that is fantastical, which is a creature that's kind of like a mammal but has wings and feathers – something we've never seen," says Cuarón. "I want a chupacabra in my room, that little Chupa is the cutest thing you've ever seen," Bichir adds. 50 of the best TV shows to watch on Netflix: 'Wednesday' is for the Addams Family 'He's a flawed superhero': Why 'Luther' is the coolest character Idris Elba will ever play Cuarón says it was "impossible not to think about 'E.T.'" when working on "Chupa." "As a filmmaker, you really look at the works that you admired to try to learn from them, and in this genre, there are so many references for me to grab on," Cuarón says. Throughout filming, the director rewatched the sci-fi/adventure classic over 10 times. Cuarón adds that "what would flatter me the most would be to meet someone 20 years from now and tell me that growing up, 'Chupa' really marked them. Because that's what movies like 'E.T.' did for my generation." 'E.T.' turns 40: Steven Spielberg recalls how 6-year-old Drew Barrymore 'stormed' into Gertie role As fathers, Cuarón and Bichir are excited to create a film their children can enjoy. "For the last five years, I've been watching so many kids' movies and trying to see the world of cinema through their eyes," the director father of two says, adding it led him to reconnect with movies from his own childhood including "E.T.", "Gremlins" and "The Goonies." Bichir, who has starred in films including "The Nun," "The Hateful Eight" and "The Grudge," jokes he doesn't "have many films that my daughter can watch." For Bichir it's also important to "connect with new generations, that's always the biggest challenge as an artist. You want to make sure the new generations know your work, and that they can connect with you too." 'Scream VI': How the new Ghostface matches the bloody 'brutality' of New York City Review: Ghostface takes Manhattan in a solid but familiar stab-filled outing This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Netflix's 'Chupa': Demian Bichir, Jonas Cuaron talk chupacabra legend New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.