Clear skies. Low 51F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear skies. Low 51F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 9:50 pm   Staff Writer/Reporter From left to right, Rick Liptak, George Dryer, Will Gullekson, Johnathon VanDrie, Cole Mortenson, Jarek Liptak, Corbin Eaton and Jeff Bellaire pose for a picture these scouts were honored for earning the rank of Eagle Scout. Seven scouts in total from Troop 125 earned the rank of Eagle Scout. Not present for the photo was Joseph Gandolphi. CADILLAC — Boy Scouts of America Troop 125 of Cadillac recently honored seven area seniors who achieved the rank of Eagle Scout. The group was honored during the troop’s quarterly Court of Honor at the Cadillac United Methodist Church Monday, May 1, and it was the culmination of a journey that started in 2011 for the seven scouts as members of the Cub Scouts. The seven scouts included home school student George Dryer, Cadillac students Will Gullekson, Johnathon VanDrie, Cole Mortenson, Jarek Liptak and Corbin Eaton, and Lake City student Joseph Gandolphi. Along the journey, the seven scouts worked their way through seven ranks, 13 required Eagle Scout Merit Badges, 13 plus elective merit badges and finalizing their Eagle Projects. The seven ranks have varying requirements, from community service hours to troop leadership positions. They also include camping and hiking requirements and mentoring. There are more than 150 Scout merit badges to choose from, but only 13 are required for the rank of Eagle Scout. These 13 merit badges require extensive engagement with the local community, state and national government, finances, family life, first aid, cooking, hiking, five, 10, 15 and 20 miles, or swimming or biking, environment, camping, sustainability and communication. These seven graduating Eagle Scouts built more than 600 feet of split rail fence and eight benches for Veterans Serving Veterans Park, cleared a trail and built a trailhead at Forest View Elementary, built a pavilion at the Falmouth Dam, built picnic tables for the pavilion at Cadillac Pathway and performed trail maintenance with benches at the Carl T Johnson Preserve. rcharmoli@cadillacnews.com Staff Writer/Reporter   
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Breaking News from the Cadillac News Entertainment from Cadillac News Local News from Cadillac News National News from Cadillac News Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Obituaries from Cadillac News Sports from Cadillac News Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Monday - Friday 8:00am – 5:30pm You’ll get access to the #1 Source of local news, sports and advertising information when and where you want it. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 