Comment In another indication that the market for technology transactions is gathering steam, Cisco announced last month its intention to buy Splunk for $28 billion. The networking company is spending a nontrivial fraction of its market capitalization on the transaction, and while Splunk shareholders are cheering the deal and the premium it may bring to their own holdings, Cisco’s shareholders appear to be less enthused, if the stock price is any indication. In strategic terms, the deal is being hailed as a big win for both teams, bringing together AI and data management capabilities, especially as applied to cybersecurity of Splunk with Cisco’s network data. Together they have the potential to be a powerful combination, but bringing together two large companies like this is no small task, and the ability to merge two cultures will go a long way in measuring the success of the deal. In financial terms, it’s interesting. While the recent Klaviyo IPO gave us a look at how the market values high-growth software companies as they go public, the Cisco-Splunk deal instead shows us the potential value of slower-growing software entities. Thus the transaction is slightly less meaningful for startups than this week’s public offerings, but still useful given the sheer dearth of liquidity events that we have seen lately. Now, as the announcement hype has faded and as reality sets in, it looks as though Cisco investors still aren’t necessarily thrilled about the deal. Maybe the big price tag is scaring them, but they haven’t answered enthusiastically, that’s for sure. The question is: Why? One thing Cisco has going for it, according to Ray Wang, founder and principal analyst at Constellation Research, is a track record of absorbing acquired companies. “The culture issue is hard, but Cisco has been built on M&A. That’s what they do, so this is a core competency for them,” Wang told TechCrunch+. Jevin Jensen, an analyst at IDC who watches companies like Splunk, says he thought the combo made sense last year when rumors of an acquisition first surfaced — and he still does. The “announcement gives Cisco a market leader in observability and enterprise security, both delivered via SaaS for customers ready to move to the cloud, or on-premises for those industries with compliance regulations,” Jensen told TechCrunch+. “These are capabilities that Cisco was lacking and should greatly improve their standing with enterprises,” he said. But that all depends on Cisco not screwing up a good thing, and Allie Mellen, an analyst at Forrester, says that Cisco has had issues with its acquisitions in the past. “Cisco has long been a case study for acquisitions that don’t live up to their initial promise and suffer from underinvestment and a lack of focus. That said, in recent years they have maintained the Duo acquisition,” Mellen said. “To keep Splunk’s massive, loyal user base, Cisco needs to let Splunk deliver what Splunk does best: a flexible, powerful [security information and event management service] and observability offering.” Starboard Value goes after 3 tech companies with cost-cutting axe  Wang said it comes down to something more fundamental in the M&A game. “They are buying $4 billion of ARR. They are buying customers,” he said. What’s more, he thinks the company is trying to build this intelligence network, while continuing its journey from hardware to software. ”And now they’re doing in the two hottest spaces — AI and cybersecurity — and where else are they going to buy a company at this valuation in AI?” But is it really worth that hefty price tag? That could be what has investors spooked. Shares of Cisco fell in the wake of the deal’s announcement, closing at $55.50 the day before the transaction was announced and falling to as low as $52.71 per share at the end of trading on September 26. Since then, Cisco has regained some ground, though at $53.51 per share as of morning trading on Wednesday, Cisco remains underwater from its pre-announcement worth. If the strategic elements of the deal seem solid as we noted above, the easy read of the situation is that Cisco is simply paying too much for Splunk; if the American networking giant is overpaying, it’s not hard to see why some of its own investors might be a little bit miffed. Here’s what we see from our current perch, some time after the deal was first discharged onto the market: How Cisco keeps its startup acquisition engine humming  So far it’s a bit hard to say, “Hey, this company is dramatically overvalued compared to what we can see in the market.” That said, investors valued Splunk as low as $65 per share inside of the last year. That puts the price that Cisco is paying for Splunk, some $157 per share, into better context. Certainly, Splunk’s value had recovered ahead of the deal’s announcement — rising to as much as $119 per share before the news dropped — but Cisco is still paying a sharp premium to the value that public-market investors ascribed to the company after it rebuilt its value this year. If Splunk’s exit price by a very coarse multiples-comparison analysis doesn’t cause alarm inside the TechCrunch+ office(s), why was the company valued so cheaply in recent quarters? Put another way, who is more right: Cisco today, or investors a few quarters ago? Going back through a few quarters of Splunk earnings, we can see a company that was working to control costs while still growing. In its Q1 F2024 results (three months ending April 30, 2023), the company bragged that it “generated 16% ARR growth while reducing non-GAAP operating expenses by 1% year-over-year,” which is the corporate way of saying ta-da! Splunk is also moving toward a cloud-based subscription model, which always takes time. It is still doing material license revenues, which investors might not love, but given the sheer profit from that revenue, it hardly bothers us. So what should we think about the Splunk deal? A fair read of the situation is that there’s opportunity cost to big deals; you can only do so many and so frequently. And if public-market investors are not convinced that the Cisco-Splunk tie-up will be as synergistic as the bankers on the deal, then they may simply view it as a large use of funds for a modest uptick in revenue growth. Throw in the fact that it doesn’t feel cheap, and you can understand why the market appears modestly skeptical of the transaction. The bull case is that one plus one equals three when Cisco and Splunk tie the knot, but that will remain an open question until the combined entity has had quarters to self-digest. For now, the continued modest decline in value at Cisco is a warning sign that investors are not fully convinced. Perhaps if Cisco had executed the deal a quarter earlier, at a discount to what it did, investors would be more content. That might have made the whole transaction sweeter to Cisco shareholders, if potentially anathema to Splunk backers. And thus, the high-wire tension of mega-deals. It’s hard to make everyone happy at once, even when $28 billion smackers is changing hands. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP