  For many years now, I’ve been talking about how I love strategic plays that allow tech vendors to operate effectively in a hybrid multi-cloud environment, because it means they can make money no matter where the workload sits or which network is used. We’ve seen this time and again from Cisco, HPE and other big players who want to serve customers across a range of needs in any kind of IT deployment. Today we’re seeing it from IBM with its $4.6 billion acquisition of FinOps provider Apptio. I like this move for IBM, where Apptio will slot in next to Turbonomic, Instana, AIOps and other well-established offerings to provide customers with better visibility into what they’re spending on IT in hybrid multi-cloud environments. (If you want to see how serious IBM has been about its multi-cloud strategy going back several years, check out this analysis of the Turbonomic acquisition and other moves that I wrote in 2021.) Deal rationale: Know what you’re spending on IT When I talked with Rob Thomas, IBM’s chief commercial officer yesterday, he laid out the end-user rationale for this deal succinctly: “If you're a CEO, a CFO or a CIO, you're trying to figure out ‘How do I manage all this complexity? Ultimately, how do I get visibility into what I'm spending?’” In Thomas’s view, “There's nothing that even compares to what Apptio can bring in terms of what I would call a virtual command center to look at my technology spend, cloud spend, labor spend. So it's really . . . total cost of ownership, finally brought to the automation and data era.” Thomas believes that IBM will have success with Apptio through direct software sales as well as via IBM Consulting, where Apptio can be deployed as a piece of bigger, top-down digital transformation projects. This addresses one of the few limiting factors on Apptio’s success as a freestanding company: although it now has 1,500+ clients, including more than half of the Fortune 100, the company’s sales operation is fairly small. As Apptio COO Ajay Patel put it to me, “We [at Apptio] don't have a product problem and we don't have a market problem—we have a reach problem.” A lack of reach will be a thing of the past once IBM and its big network of channel partners come into play. The AI angle of the Apptio purchase On top of all that, the sky’s the limit for FinOps insights once IBM is able to feed Apptio’s anonymized IT spend data—$450 billion worth of it—into the watsonx platform. It’s early yet, but Patel thinks AI might (1) improve Apptio’s (already excellent) ability to ingest and classify data, (2) detect anomalies in data or operations and (3) create recommendations, for example about the top areas where a CTO could proactively reduce IT spend. The first of those would further improve ease of use and accuracy, while the second would definitely expand insights for customers. But the third one could be a runaway hit for the combined company. Operational insights driving planning, spending and optimization Apptio is already great at aggregating data from multiple sources onto a common data platform, and it’s great at showing everyone from the C-suite to DevOps teams on the front lines where IT dollars are going and how effective those dollars are. As part of IBM, we should see even more ability for it to get granular with questions like “What is it really costing me to serve a customer?” or “What’s this product SKU costing me?” or to go big with questions like “What market should I get into next?” Thomas said that in the current economic climate the customers he deals with are focused on “getting fit—thinking about how they optimize investments.” The Apptio transaction, which should close later this year, increases IBM’s already significant ability to help customers do exactly that, and do it across any part of today’s hybrid multi-cloud environments. That’s how companies will get the most out of their IT investments—and how IBM will make the most of its investment in Apptio. Moor Insights & Strategy provides or has provided paid services to technology companies like all research and tech industry analyst firms. These services include research, analysis, advising, consulting, benchmarking, acquisition matchmaking, and video and speaking sponsorships. The company has had or currently has paid business relationships with 8×8, Accenture, A10 Networks, Advanced Micro Devices, Amazon, Amazon Web Services, Ambient Scientific, Ampere Computing, Anuta Networks, Applied Brain Research, Applied Micro, Apstra, Arm, Aruba Networks (now HPE), Atom Computing, AT&T, Aura, Automation Anywhere, AWS, A-10 Strategies, Bitfusion, Blaize, Box, Broadcom, C3.AI, Calix, Cadence Systems, Campfire, Cisco Systems, Clear Software, Cloudera, Clumio, Cohesity, Cognitive Systems, CompuCom, Cradlepoint, CyberArk, Dell, Dell EMC, Dell Technologies, Diablo Technologies, Dialogue Group, Digital Optics, Dreamium Labs, D-Wave, Echelon, Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Five9, Flex, Foundries.io, Foxconn, Frame (now VMware), Fujitsu, Gen Z Consortium, Glue Networks, GlobalFoundries, Revolve (now Google), Google Cloud, Graphcore, Groq, Hiregenics, Hotwire Global, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Honeywell, Huawei Technologies, HYCU, IBM, Infinidat, Infoblox, Infosys, Inseego, IonQ, IonVR, Inseego, Infosys, Infiot, Intel, Interdigital, Jabil Circuit, Juniper Networks, Keysight, Konica Minolta, Lattice Semiconductor, Lenovo, Linux Foundation, Lightbits Labs, LogicMonitor, LoRa Alliance, Luminar, MapBox, Marvell Technology, Mavenir, Marseille Inc, Mayfair Equity, Meraki (Cisco), Merck KGaA, Mesophere, Micron Technology, Microsoft, MiTEL, Mojo Networks, MongoDB, Multefire Alliance, National Instruments, Neat, NetApp, Nightwatch, NOKIA, Nortek, Novumind, NVIDIA, Nutanix, Nuvia (now Qualcomm), NXP, onsemi, ONUG, OpenStack Foundation, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Panasas, Peraso, Pexip, Pixelworks, Plume Design, PlusAI, Poly (formerly Plantronics), Portworx, Pure Storage, Qualcomm, Quantinuum, Rackspace, Rambus, Rayvolt E-Bikes, Red Hat, Renesas, Residio, Samsung Electronics, Samsung Semi, SAP, SAS, Scale Computing, Schneider Electric, SiFive, Silver Peak (now Aruba-HPE), SkyWorks, SONY Optical Storage, Splunk, Springpath (now Cisco), Spirent, Splunk, Sprint (now T-Mobile), Stratus Technologies, Symantec, Synaptics, Syniverse, Synopsys, Tanium, Telesign,TE Connectivity, TensTorrent, Tobii Technology, Teradata,T-Mobile, Treasure Data, Twitter, Unity Technologies, UiPath, Verizon Communications, VAST Data, Ventana Micro Systems, Vidyo, VMware, Wave Computing, Wellsmith, Xilinx, Zayo, Zebra, Zededa, Zendesk, Zoho, Zoom, and Zscaler. Moor Insights & Strategy founder, CEO, and Chief Analyst Patrick Moorhead is an investor in dMY Technology Group Inc. VI, Fivestone Partners, Frore Systems, Groq, MemryX, Movandi, and Ventana Micro., MemryX, Movandi, and Ventana Micro.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.