WHO:             Daryl Wade, Astros MLB Youth Academy Director                         Erin Hinch, wife of Astros manager AJ HinchWHAT:          The Astros Foundation and South Central Sportz Youth Association are hosting the Jackie Robinson                          JrRBI Jamboree at Sunnyside Park, a Community Leaders park sponsored by Schlumberger. The jamboree                         is an opportunity for teams from different age groups to compete in tournament-style play and showcase                         their talents in honor of the 70th anniversary of Jackie Robinson breaking the color barrier. The 15-team                         event will feature teams from the South Central Sportz JrRBI, the Astros JrRBI (Astros MLB Youth Academy)                         and other youth baseball and softball programs from the greater Houston area. The Major League Baseball                         JrRBI program is designed to create playing divisions that provide baseball and softball opportunities for                         children ages 5-12.                         The Astros Foundation Literacy Bus presented by Phillips 66 will also make a stop at the jamboree from                         11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m., providing free books to children participating in the event. The Astros Foundation                         Literacy Bus presented by Phillips 66 is in partnership with the Houston Independent School District and                         Friends of the Houston Public Library.WHEN:          Tomorrow, Saturday, April 22                         9:00 a.m. - event beginsWHERE:        Sunnyside Park                         3502 Bellfort St., Houston, TX 77051ABOUT COMMUNITY LEADERS:The Astros Community Leaders program, developed by Astros Owner and Chairman Jim Crane, provides newly renovated baseball and softball fields to Houston-area children. The concept of the program is to provide the next generation of ballplayers and young athletes with clean, beautiful ballfields on which they can play, to help them develop physically and mentally. Baseball and softball teach young players the importance of teamwork, perseverance and commitment, principles that will serve them not only on the field, but throughout their lives. Since its inception, the Community Leaders program has renovated 20 ballfields in eight parks and currently serves more than 2,500 children. In addition to year-round maintenance to the ballfields, additional features include player and coaching clinics, free equipment and uniforms, complimentary tickets to Astros games and special experiences at the ballpark with Astros players and coaches. For its efforts, the Community Leaders program was named a 2016 Mayor's Proud Partner Award winner.-ASTROS-