Ross McCrorie played in Aberdeen's win over Rangers on Sunday Aberdeen and Bristol City are in advanced talks about a deal that would see defender Ross McCrorie move south for a fee of around £2m. The 25-year-old would remain at Pittodrie for the rest of the season and complete the switch to the English Championship club in the summer. When asked about it after his side's win over Rangers, Aberdeen interim manager Barry Robson said: "You clearly know more than me." McCrorie is under contract until 2026. He joined Aberdeen from Rangers in August 2020, initially on loan, and subsequently earned a Scotland call-up but is yet to win his first cap,  Aberdeen stun Rangers for seventh win in row Visit our Aberdeen page for all the latest news, analysis and fan views You can now get Aberdeen news notifications in the BBC Sport app - find out more Our coverage of Aberdeen is bigger and better than ever before - here's everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment Everything Aberdeen - go straight to all the best content BBC Sport Scottish Premiership Aberdeen official site 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help What now for Clarke as Scotland's ongoing deterioration continues? 'Time for Scotland rebuild? Or can this team reach World Cup?' Do Scotland's problems lie away from the national team? From titles to tinpottery - rank Scotland's top 10 clubs Subscribe & follow updates on your Premiership team The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.