The 18-year-old joined the Citizens' academy at the age of eight and has since worked his way through the club's youth ranks to become a first-team squad member under Pep Guardiola. Lewis enjoyed an impressive breakthrough season with Man City in their treble-winning 2022-23 campaign, making 23 appearances across all competitions including 10 Premier League starts. The highly-rated Bury-born defender has shown his versatility under Guardiola, operating at either right-back or left-back and in centre-midfield. Lewis was handed a start in Man City's Premier League opener against Burnley last Friday, playing for 79 minutes in a 3-0 victory at Turf Moor, and he is expected to feature regularly for the Citizens in 2023-24.   Rico Lewis signs a new five-year contract with City, keeping him at the Etihad Stadium until 2028! ✍️ pic.twitter.com/SPBTS783SG Speaking to Man City's official website about signing his new deal, Lewis said: "It's been an unbelievable year for me and now to sign this contract is a dream come true. "As a City fan I can remember watching us winning trophies when I was young and it's the only place I've wanted to be. "To know I'm going to be here until 2028 is fantastic and I can't wait to keep working and keep improving. "Everyone at the club has been so amazing, starting with the academy where I learnt so much and I am hugely grateful for everything they did. "The fans have been brilliant too and I'll give everything for them and the club to try to keep us being successful." © Reuters Lewis added: "It's amazing. For me, my family, it's a chance for me now to live my dream and work as hard as I can to, you know, continue to get better and do more for the club. So, yeah, I'm really proud. "I've been given the chance to play in a team that has won the treble. And I'm being given a new contract at the club that I love and I've been at my whole life." Director of football Txiki Begiristain continued: "Rico is a really intelligent footballer and is already a mature and reliable member of the squad. "He absorbs every single piece of information Pep gives him, which for a player of his age is special. "We are very proud to have watched his journey through the academy and to see him playing with such confidence in the first team. "His energy and hunger around the squad is contagious and we believe he can help to bring more success in the coming years." Lewis is hoping to win another trophy with Man City on Wednesday when they take on Sevilla in the UEFA Super Cup in Athens. 






 Subscribe to our newsletter
 
