Spotify has put a robot DJ into its app — a computerized song-spinner with a “stunningly realistic” voice that queues up music based on your musical tastes and listening history. The beta version of DJ is rolling out in English starting Wednesday for Spotify Premium users in the U.S. and Canada. More from Variety Spotify Podcast Reorg: Max Cutler to Exit, Julie McNamara to Assume Oversight of Licensed Exclusives Including With Joe Rogan Rihanna Streams Surge by 640% Thanks to Super Bowl Halftime Performance Algo-Rhythm: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love AI (Guest Column) Spotify, of course, already has numerous personalized-listening features built into the service, including with its Daily Mix and Discovery Weekly auto-generated playlists. What’s different about DJ is that it combines Spotify’s personalization technology with generative AI through the use of technology from OpenAI (the company behind ChatGPT chatbot). Spotify says it put the AI tech in the hands of its music editors “to provide you with insightful facts about the music, artists or genres you’re listening to,” according to the company. Also, just like a human DJ, Spotify’s DJ provides ongoing commentary about the tracks and artists it’s playing. The feature uses an AI text-to-speech engine from Spotify’s Sonantic acquisition last year. To create the voice model for the DJ in its initial release, the company turned to its head of cultural partnerships, Xavier “X” Jernigan, who previously served as one of the hosts of Spotify’s first (and personalized) morning show, “The Get Up.” Jernigan’s voice is the first model for the DJ, and “we’ll continue to iterate and innovate, as we do with all our products,” Spotify said. Based on your music-taste profile, the Spotify DJ will scan new releases that it predicts you will like or resurface songs that you have had on repeat in the past. The feature also constantly refreshes the lineup based on your feedback. If you aren’t into the playlist that the DJ is playing, you can click on the “DJ” button to skip to the next genre or mood. The new feature is “a generative, expressive and realistic AI DJ that delivers a personalized lineup of music and commentary to each user, for all those times you don’t know exactly what you want to hear,” Spotify chief R&D officer Gustav Söderström tweeted. How to find the Spotify DJ: Go to your Music Feed on Home in the Spotify mobile app on your iOS or Android device. Tap Play on the DJ card. That’s all! The DJ will stream a lineup of personalize music alongside short commentary on the songs and artists. To change the genre, artist or mood, you can hit the DJ button at the bottom right of the screen. Watch Spotify’s introductory video for DJ: Best of Variety Barbra Streisand's Memoir Gets November Release Date What's Coming to Netflix in February 2023 What's Coming to Disney+ in February 2023 Sign up for Variety’s Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.