
 
								By 

	Whitney Cinkala
 
Variety returns with its annual Entertainment and Technology Summit, presented by City National Bank, on Sept. 21 in Los Angeles and streaming virtually. Recently added speakers include Ynon Kreiz, chairman and CEO of Mattel; and Charles D. King, founder and CEO of MACRO and producer of “They Cloned Tyrone” and “Judas and the Black Messiah.” 
	Kreiz will take part in a keynote conversation discussing Mattel’s strategic transformation to an IP-driven toy company, including his leadership vision in creating Mattel Films. Its first live-action motion picture, “Barbie,” has become a box office juggernaut, breaking records for Warner Bros. Pictures and filmmaker Greta Gerwig. It’s the highest-grossing domestic release of 2023. Variety Intelligence Platform president and chief media analyst Andrew Wallenstein will lead the interview.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					The Future of FAST: A Special Report on Free Streaming		
			














	
		
					New Netflix Documentary ‘Mountain Queen’ Follows Inspiring Story of 10-Time Everest Climber Lhakpa Sherpa		
			






 
	King will speak with Variety’s senior entertainment writer Angelique Jackson about his vision and mission for MACRO, a multi-platform media company representing the voice and perspectives of Black people, indigenous people and people of color. The company’s film projects, including “Judas and the Black Messiah,” have garnered fifteen Oscar nominations and three wins. Its television projects have received a Peabody Award nomination, two Primetime Emmy nominations and six Children’s and Family Emmy Award nominations.




			Popular on Variety		




 
	Other recently added speakers include Julie McNamara, head of global podcast studios at Spotify; Richelle Parham, president of global ecommerce and business development at Universal Music Group; Neal Harmon, co-founder and CEO of Angel Studios; Jared Geesey, SVP of global distribution at Angel Studios; Katie Jones, head of North America media partnerships at Meta; Mike Verdu, VP of games at Netflix; Josh Mattison, SVP of revenue management and operations at Disney Advertising; Alessandra Torre, entertainment partnerships and creator industry lead at Meta; Mainak Mazumdar, EVP of chief advertising research and analytics officer at Fox Corp; Tia White, general Manager of AI and machine learning at Amazon; Nick Viall, host of “The Viall Files”; Jodie Sweetin, host of “How Rude, Tanneritos!”; and Omar Zayat, head of industry for entertainment at Meta. 
	These participants join earlier announced speakers including JB Perrette, CEO and president of global streaming and games at Warner Bros. Discovery; Russell Wallach, global president of Live Nation Media and Sponsorships; Emily King, EVP of marketing and Digital at Fox Entertainment; Ellen Stone, EVP of consumer engagement and brand strategy at NBC Universal; and Angela Courtin, VP and global head of brand marketing at YouTube.

	








 
	“City National has been the preferred bank of the entertainment industry for decades, and we work hard to ensure we can continue meeting the industry’s banking needs in the ways that have differentiated us, including through innovation and our technology solutions,” said Linda Duncombe, EVP and chief marketing, data and digital officer at City National Bank. “Hearing from our entertainment clients and collaborators helps us ensure we understand what matters most to this unique and special industry. As presenting sponsor of Variety’s Entertainment & Technology Summit, we look forward to joining industry leaders once again for important discussions about the trends and needs shaping the future of entertainment.” 
	To register and get a ticket before the advanced rate ends on Aug. 31, visit the site here: variety.com/enttech 
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment