NEW YORK — Internet influencer Kai Cenat was freed from police custody early Saturday after he was charged with misdemeanors for sparking a riot in Union Square on Friday that drew thousands of people and resulted in dozens of arrests and injuries. Around 12:15 a.m. Saturday, Cenat left the 19th Precinct station house on E. 67th St. on the Upper East Side. He’d been in custody since Friday afternoon, when thousands of people — mostly teens — crowded Union Square in Manhattan in the belief Cenat was going to give away PlayStation gaming consoles and other prizes. Clad in a gray hoodie and accompanied by a burly bodyguard, he was rushed into a waiting SUV and driven away. He did not answer reporters’ shouted questions. Three law enforcement sources told the Daily News that Cenat was given a desk appearance ticket. The ticket, which does not require bail, will require Cenat to appear in Manhattan Criminal Court for arraignment on misdemeanor charges of inciting a riot, said the sources. Under New York Law, inciting a riot is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by no more than 364 days in jail. People convicted of such offenses often get no jail time. During the Friday afternoon melee, police officers called to the scene from across the city were pelted with bottles, paint cans, rocks and other debris, countless people were injured, and evening rush hour subway service was diverted from Union Square. Cenat, 21, was among around two dozen people arrested in the incident, which he’d advertised on X — the site formerly known as Twitter — and in other online hot spots. Cenat has amassed 6 million followers on Twitch, a site that focuses on streaming people playing video games. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.