Sport | Football Crystal Palace are increasingly likely to keep hold of Cheick Doucoure, with Liverpool put off by Palace’s £70 million valuation of the player. Liverpool and Paris Saint-Germain both approached Palace earlier this summer, registering their interest in the 23-year-old defensive midfielder who joined the Eagles last year from Lens for an initial £21m. PSG’s enquiry, first revealed by Standard Sport, was never followed up, but Liverpool have remained interested in the player throughout the transfer window. Liverpool lost out to Chelsea in their attempts to sign Moises Caicedo and Romeo Lavia as replacements for Jordan Henderson and Fabinho, who both left the Reds this summer in lucrative moves to Saudi Arabia. Standard Sport now understands that Jurgen Klopp’s side have no intention of submitting a formal bid for Mali international Doucoure, who Palace placed a £70m valuation on last month in an attempt to fend off interest. Doucoure was left out of Palace’s squad for Tuesday’s 4-2 win over Plymouth Argyle in the Carabao Cup, though that decision by Roy Hodgson was unrelated to his transfer future. Another defensive midfield signing for Liverpool before the transfer window closes on Friday has not been ruled out, but they hope the £16.3m arrival of Wataru Endo from Stuttgart gives them adequate cover in the position. Meanwhile, Palace are also anticipating further approaches for Eberechi Eze and Marc Guehi this week. Like Doucoure, both are content at Palace but have attracted interest this summer. Tottenham are long-term admirers of Guehi, while Eze is liked by Manchester City — though the Premier League champions have not yet lodged a formal bid for the midfielder, who hopes to be called up by England again when Gareth Southgate announces his latest squad on Thursday. Nigeria vs Ghana: Prediction, kick-off time, team news, odds, h2h How to watch South Africa vs Andorra: TV channel and live stream South Africa vs Andorra: Prediction, kick-off time, team news, h2h First look at exceptional new London properties for sale in 2024 Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow 3 World Sicily yacht sinking LIVE: Morgan Stanley bank boss among missing as search resumes for survivors 4 Comment We need to talk about All Points East: why is everyone at festivals suddenly so hot? 5 UK Staff repeatedly contacted out of hours may get thousands more in compensation