Surveillance video from inside the coffee shop shows the attacker, described as a man in his late 30s or early 40s, cutting another man with some kind of bladed object. Surveillance video from inside the coffee shop shows the attacker, described as a man in his late 30s or early 40s, cutting another man with some kind of bladed object. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Surveillance video from inside the coffee shop shows the attacker, described as a man in his late 30s or early 40s, cutting another man with some kind of bladed object. Days after a Starbucks customer was attacked by a person with a bladed object, the Auburn Police Department said it has arrested the suspected assailant. Julian Matthes, 26, was arrested Wednesday in the 200 block of Berkeley Avenue in connection with the attack, police said. He was booked into the South Placer County Jail on charges related to a no-bail parole violation and assault with a deadly weapon. The assault happened just before 2 p.m. Sunday at the Starbucks on Elm Avenue, according to the Auburn Police Department. Surveillance video from inside the coffee shop shows the attacker, described as a man in his late 30s or early 40s, cutting another man with a bladed object. The attacker then ran away from the Starbucks and was last seen wearing a black windbreaker, black beanie and white shoes. The victim had minor cuts but did not need medical attention, police said.  Investigators believe the attack was random. "We don’t really have much of a connection between [the victim] and the suspect," Auburn Police Det. Chris Sanschagrin said. "There’s no interaction between them up until the attack happened, and at this time we don’t have a motive for why he did so." Sanschagrin also noted that this is an unusual case for the normally quiet city of Auburn, where police do not deal with many violent crime incidents. Police are continuing to collect surveillance images from the Starbucks, as well as other nearby businesses, to help them find the attacker. Michael Malvey, an Auburn resident who said he has been coming to the Starbucks on Elm Avenue for 15 years, said he likes the location because he feels secure. Now, he is a little worried. "Is it a safe place? Or is that just a one-off? It’s probably not going to happen again, let’s hope,” Malvey said. "I will probably continue coming here but will just be more alert."  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.