A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket roared away from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station with a $1.5 billion mission designed to study the dark side of the universe on Saturday, marking a break from the Space Coast's usual manifest of communications satellites. At 11:12 a.m. EDT, the 230-foot rocket took flight from Launch Complex 40 and flew along a southeastern trajectory with Euclid, a European Space Agency mission designed to study dark matter and energy. A successful landing on the Shortfall of Gravitas drone ship marked the booster's second flight so far. Over the next month, Euclid will finalize its orbit at the L2 Lagrange point about a million miles from Earth, which is also where the now-famous James Webb Space Telescope is located. Lagrange points are areas where gravitational forces from different bodies are balanced, enabling spacecraft to "hover." Rocket launch schedule: Upcoming Florida launches and landings The roughly $1.5 billion mission spearheaded by the European Space Agency, along with some input from NASA, aims to study the nature of dark matter and energy. Things visible to scientists – planets, galaxies, and so on – appear to make up just a fraction of what's really out there. Dark matter and energy are believed to comprise upwards of 95% of the universe and are responsible for its structure and rate of expansion, the acceleration of which has puzzled observers for decades. Euclid, the Space Coast's 33rd mission of the year, was named after the ancient Greek mathematician who lived around 300 BCE. He's more commonly known as the "father of geometry." If all goes according to plan, Euclid will spend the next few months testing before delivering its first images sometime this fall. Scientists hope to observe billions of galaxies across over a third of the sky. Beyond Saturday's launch, SpaceX is expected to launch at least twice more this month. Another batch of the company's Starlink internet satellites should fly in the first half, while a triple-core Falcon Heavy rocket is slated to boost a classified Space Force mission from Kennedy Space Center sometime before the month is out. Exact timelines are not yet available. For the latest, visit floridatoday.com/launchschedule. Contact Emre Kelly at aekelly@floridatoday.com. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram at @EmreKelly. Starlink launch: SpaceX launches dozens of Starlink internet satellites from Cape Canaveral in Florida This article originally appeared on Florida Today: SpaceX launches Euclid telescope from Florida to hunt for dark matter New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.