 More than a million tons of sand washed into the Snake River after a rancher dug a ditch in the fragile Sandhills in 2021  to drain a flooded pasture. This photo was taken in October. (Courtesy of John Sidle) LINCOLN — The Environmental Protection Agency is currently reviewing a new plan for restoring a Sandhills stream damaged by an unauthorized deluge of sand three years ago. More than 1.6 million tons of sand and sediment — enough to cover a football field to a depth of about 540 feet — was unleashed when a local rancher, with the help of Cherry County, drained a flooded hay meadow into the Snake River, south of Merriman. After the county dug a drainage ditch along a county road, rancher Dick Minor extended the ditch an additional 2.5 miles to the spring-fed creek. The new flow and heavy rains eroded a mountain of sand into the stream, turning a normally narrow waterway into a flat, sandy plain — similar to the Platte River — for about three miles downstream. New sediment was noticed about 30 miles downstream, where the Snake empties into Merritt Reservoir. The Snake is one of the state’s few trout streams, and it hosts a small number of canoe trips through a remote area of the Sandhills. Last month, Cherry County approved a contract with Mainelli Wagner & Associates of Lincoln to halt the flow of water into the Snake from the drainage ditch and then to provide a plan, and oversight, of the construction of “detention structures” and replanting of grass and trees. The three-phase contract calls for spending of $66,900, to be shared by the county and the  rancher, as well as an estimate of construction costs. Both the county and Minor have been cited by the EPA for violating the federal Clean Water Act by not obtaining permission for the discharge into the waterway. The county and rancher signed an agreement in June 2021 to provide a plan within 60 days to remediate the damage, restore — to the extent possible — the previous flow in the Snake River, and mitigate for “lost river functions.” But in February 2022, the EPA issued a “notice of violation” against the two parties for failing to promptly comply with the order. In November, the EPA indicated that it had enlisted a contractor “with the expertise” to review a proposed work plan for damage it termed complex and severe. At that time, an EPA spokesman said the agency hoped to have a work plan soon and would share the plan once approved. Last week, the spokesman, Ben Washburn, said the agency and consultants it hired are currently reviewing the latest work plan. When asked what happened to past proposals, Washburn said that the project involves “complicated hydrological issues” and that consultants had to be hired. The Mainelli group, in a February letter to the county, indicated that it would submit a new work plan by a March 24 deadline, and then have a estimate in late April of construction costs to install pipes and detention structures and conduct other mitigation work. Cherry County Attorney Eric Scott, when reached by the Examiner, declined to comment other than to say that the county was in full compliance with the EPA’s directives. Calls to Dick Minor and Martin DeNaeyer, the chairman of the Cherry County Board, were not returned. GET THE MORNING HEADLINES DELIVERED TO YOUR INBOX by Paul Hammel, Nebraska Examiner May 8, 2023 by Paul Hammel, Nebraska Examiner May 8, 2023 LINCOLN — The Environmental Protection Agency is currently reviewing a new plan for restoring a Sandhills stream damaged by an unauthorized deluge of sand three years ago. More than 1.6 million tons of sand and sediment — enough to cover a football field to a depth of about 540 feet — was unleashed when a local rancher, with the help of Cherry County, drained a flooded hay meadow into the Snake River, south of Merriman. After the county dug a drainage ditch along a county road, rancher Dick Minor extended the ditch an additional 2.5 miles to the spring-fed creek. The new flow and heavy rains eroded a mountain of sand into the stream, turning a normally narrow waterway into a flat, sandy plain — similar to the Platte River — for about three miles downstream. New sediment was noticed about 30 miles downstream, where the Snake empties into Merritt Reservoir. The Snake is one of the state’s few trout streams, and it hosts a small number of canoe trips through a remote area of the Sandhills. Last month, Cherry County approved a contract with Mainelli Wagner & Associates of Lincoln to halt the flow of water into the Snake from the drainage ditch and then to provide a plan, and oversight, of the construction of “detention structures” and replanting of grass and trees. The three-phase contract calls for spending of $66,900, to be shared by the county and the  rancher, as well as an estimate of construction costs. Both the county and Minor have been cited by the EPA for violating the federal Clean Water Act by not obtaining permission for the discharge into the waterway. The county and rancher signed an agreement in June 2021 to provide a plan within 60 days to remediate the damage, restore — to the extent possible — the previous flow in the Snake River, and mitigate for “lost river functions.” But in February 2022, the EPA issued a “notice of violation” against the two parties for failing to promptly comply with the order. In November, the EPA indicated that it had enlisted a contractor “with the expertise” to review a proposed work plan for damage it termed complex and severe. At that time, an EPA spokesman said the agency hoped to have a work plan soon and would share the plan once approved. Last week, the spokesman, Ben Washburn, said the agency and consultants it hired are currently reviewing the latest work plan. When asked what happened to past proposals, Washburn said that the project involves “complicated hydrological issues” and that consultants had to be hired. The Mainelli group, in a February letter to the county, indicated that it would submit a new work plan by a March 24 deadline, and then have a estimate in late April of construction costs to install pipes and detention structures and conduct other mitigation work. Cherry County Attorney Eric Scott, when reached by the Examiner, declined to comment other than to say that the county was in full compliance with the EPA’s directives. Calls to Dick Minor and Martin DeNaeyer, the chairman of the Cherry County Board, were not returned. GET THE MORNING HEADLINES DELIVERED TO YOUR INBOX Nebraska Examiner is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Nebraska Examiner maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor Cate Folsom for questions: info@nebraskaexaminer.com. Follow Nebraska Examiner on Facebook and X. Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Senior Contributor Paul Hammel covered the Nebraska state government and the state for decades. Previously with the Omaha World-Herald, Lincoln Journal Star and Omaha Sun, he is a member of the Omaha Press Club's Hall of Fame. He grows hops, brews homemade beer, plays bass guitar and basically loves traveling and writing about the state. A native of Ralston, Nebraska, he is vice president of the John G. Neihardt Foundation. Hammel retired in April but continues to contribute to the Nebraska Examiner. DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT © Nebraska Examiner, 2024 v1.39.5 Nebraskans want accountability from their elected officials and government. They want to know whether their tax dollars are being well-spent, whether state agencies and local governments are responsive to the people and whether officials, programs and policies are working for the common good. The Nebraska Examiner is a nonprofit, independent news source committed to providing news, scoops and reports important to our state.  We’re part of States Newsroom, the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization.  DEIJ Policy | Ethics Policy | Privacy Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines.) © Nebraska Examiner, 2024