
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? Intentsify has appointed tech executive Ajay Subherwal as the company’s new chief revenue officer. This is a new position within the Franklin-based software company, and Subherwal will start his new job at the marketing software company immediately, according to the Thursday announcement from Intentsify. "Intentsify saw incredible business growth last year, introducing a new Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Product Officer, and VP of People to help meet our goals to continue scaling," Intentsify CEO Marc Laplante said in a press release on Thursday. "Our team has a deep commitment to empowering customers with the right tools and leadership team to navigate an evolving business landscape. I'm excited to have Ajay on the team to drive revenue and customer success globally as we kick off a strong 2023." Subherwal joins Intensify from another Philadelphia marketing software company MRP, where he was the company’s senior vice president for 12 years before becoming its chief revenue officer.  Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy