Jobber, an Edmonton company that sells operations management software to small home-service businesses, has raised a record amount of venture capital funding. The company announced on Tuesday that it had raised $100 million US ($1.34 million Cdn) in Series D funding. This is the fourth stage of fundraising that a business completes after the seed stage. The investment was led by growth equity investor General Atlantic and included funds from previous investors Summit Partners, Version One Ventures and Tech Pioneers Fund. According to the Canadian Venture Capital Private Equity Association's research and product team, Jobber's latest venture capital investment is the largest in Edmonton's history. "It's an exciting time," CEO and co-founder Sam Pillar told CBC News on Wednesday. Pillar and Forrest Zeisler — both University of Alberta graduates and former freelance software developers — started talking about the company that would become Jobber in 2010. The pair met at the 109th Street Remedy Cafe, which both men were using as an office at the time. Pillar, who had been doing some work for small home-service companies, had realized there wasn't much software tailored to them. Busy painters, plumbers, landscapers and roofers were running businesses out of their trucks, scribbling down figures in coil-bound notebooks stuffed with post-it notes, he said. Jobber built a subscription-based software service with their needs in mind. Small companies in more than 50 fields now use it to dispatch employees, generate quotes, optimize routes, track jobs and take payments. Since forming Octopusapp Inc., which is still the company's official name, Pillar and Zeisler have grown the business from two employees to nearly 600. In addition to its Edmonton headquarters, Jobber has offices in Toronto and Salt Lake City, Utah. It's also been hiring remote workers in Canada, the U.S., and Latin America. As other tech companies have been shrinking, Jobber has kept growing, avoiding layoffs, even during the first phase of the pandemic. The company generated $100 million in revenue last year. "It's bucking the trend in Canada and globally, so it's a vote of confidence for Jobber specifically, but also the tech system as a whole," said Jeff Bell, the director of research and business intelligence for the business development agency Edmonton Global. Bell said Jobber has leveraged local tech talent in the Edmonton region and has focused on services that don't disappear during downturns. "When plumbing breaks, you need to hire a plumber," he said. "When your lights go, you need to hire an electrician." Pillar said the company was luckier than most during the pandemic, but he also attributed Jobber's success to employees' focus and hard work. "We've raised venture capital to build the business, but along the way we didn't forget to build a business and I think that's a really important thing that we're proud of and it takes diligence and discipline," he said. Catherine Warren, the CEO of Edmonton Unlimited, which tries to foster innovation in the city, described Jobber as one of Edmonton's "shining stars." She said the company's success reinforces the importance of maintaining relationships between funding rounds and proves to up-and-coming startups that it's possible to raise a lot of money and maintain an Edmonton headquarters. "We have the talent here and we have the team building expertise here," she said. According to the CVCA, Alberta set a record for venture capital investment last year, with $758 million being invested across 85 deals. Many of those deals benefitted Calgary companies, but Bell said several local artificial intelligence firms have secured recent funding. Pillar said Jobber will use the growth funding to focus on customer acquisition, research and development, and product improvements. He said the market has become a little more competitive since 2011, but there are 6.2 million businesses in North America that could be using the company's software. About 200,000 people currently use it. "We barely scratch the surface of the number of companies that we can help," Pillar said. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." One day before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has embarked on a bus tour in Pennsylvania with her running mate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. Peyton Manning knows a thing or two about great quarterback play, having won two Super Bowls and earned a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. At this past weekend's Fanatics Fest, he listed his five top quarterbacks in the NFL. While not a surprising list, it does…