Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     AI is the hottest buzzword in the tech industry right now. Using OpenAI's ChatGPT, you can boost your productivity and offload many mundane tasks to the AI tool. Microsoft has been quick to integrate ChatGPT across its products, including SwiftKey, which is among our favorite Android keyboard apps. Dubbed Bing AI Chat, you can use the tool to compose emails or messages, rephrase the tone of what you've written, get new ideas surrounding a topic, chat with the AI about a topic, and more.
                         Here's how to use Bing AI chat on the top Samsung phones, Google Pixel phones, and small Android phones.
     Some things are best kept secret                     As its name indicates, Bing AI Chat is an AI chatbot that uses the power of Bing and ChatGPT and its GPT4 language model to supercharge your productivity. Bing AI Chat can analyze the top results for your query and generate a quick overview of the solution. This can reduce your research time, letting you focus on more important tasks.
                         But there's more to Bing AI Chat than just generative search. You can use the AI tool to generate content or emails based on the topic you enter and get it to rephrase your existing document to use more formal language.
      ChatGPT is better than Google Bard in many ways, so its integration with SwiftKey increases the keyboard's usefulness.
                         Before proceeding with the steps below, change the default keyboard on your Android phone to Microsoft SwiftKey. It is available as a free download from the Google Play Store. During the setup process, you must log in to your Microsoft account in SwiftKey. Otherwise, you can't use Bing AI Chat.
                         Bing AI Chat on SwiftKey is available on Google Pixel and Samsung phones. You can try SwiftKey Beta if Bing AI Chat does not appear in the stable version on your phone.
                         You can use Bing AI Chat to generate holiday itineraries, get recipes for your favorite dish, and more. However, you're restricted to 20 chats per session and 200 conversations throughout the day with the chatbot.
                         The best part about Bing AI's integration in SwiftKey is that you can use it to write emails, suggest new ideas, or generate new content for blog posts.
                         To change the tone of a piece of text you wrote, select the Tone button from SwiftKey's toolbar. Then, choose the tone to which you want to rephrase the content, followed by Generate draft. This is a great tool for making an email you wrote sound more formal or more professional in a document you are preparing.
                         If you are always on the go and use your phone for composing emails and office documents, Bing AI Chat can help boost your productivity. Instead of struggling with writing emails from scratch, you can use Bing AI Chat to generate a template and then build on it, saving you hours in the process. Once you are done playing around with SwiftKey's Bing AI Chat integration, check out the best tools and utility apps for Android that you must have on your phone.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. It's once again on the attack The dark horse of music streaming is on its way to being excellent Rolling out in beta for some Share large photos without compression Google Keeps it simple and effective You'd need an extra tap to start a search in some cases