Experts noted that India should not be concerned about the ongoing surge of Covid-19 infections in China, which could reach 65 million cases per week by the end of June. They suggest that India is already familiar with the Omicron subvariant, which is responsible for this surge. China is witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases primarily attributed to the XBB subvariant, which has been prominent since late April. Notably, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had announced that Covid-19 pandemic is no more an ‘emergency’. According to a report by Bloomberg, citing a local media outlet, respiratory disease specialist Zhong Nanshan presented information at a biotech conference in Guangzhou stating that the country could experience around 40 million infections per week by the end of May. The peak is projected to reach 65 million weekly infections approximately a month later. “What China is seeing now, India is well past that stage and has emerged unscathed. If you see INSACOG bulletins issued around that time last year, those clearly mentioned that any increase in disease severity or hospitalization was not observed in India,” a member of INSACOG said, requesting anonymity. INSACOG, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium, is a collaborative effort involving the health ministry, the Department of biotechnology, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Indian Council of Medical Research. It consists of a network of 54 laboratories dedicated to monitoring the genetic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to a study published in The Lancet, XBB is considered the most evasive sublineage of the Omicron variant. XBB is a combination of Omicron's BA.2.10.1 and BA.2.75 subvariants. It was initially identified in Singapore in August of the previous year and was responsible for a significant increase in Covid-19 cases in the region. In India, the XBB subvariant caused a mild increase in Covid-19 cases towards the end of the previous year. However, this surge did not result in increased hospitalizations or fatalities. In the last 24 hours, India has recorded 571 positive cases of Covid-19. XBB was the most prevalent sublineage circulating all over India around November-December, accounting for at least 60% of the total samples genome sequenced, INSACOG said. “Omicron and its sub-lineages continue to be the dominant variant in India. XBB is the most prevalent sub-lineage (63.2%) circulating all over India. BA.2.75 and BA.2.10 were also circulating to a lesser extent. Especially, in North-East India, BA.2.75 is the prevalent sub lineage,” the consortium said in early December. “Among the samples collected till the end of November 2022, the prevalence of XBB and its sub-lineages was 62.6%, for BA.2.75, it was 18.7% whereas, BA.2.10 was 11.0% and those were continued to be the most commonly circulating Omicron sub-lineage,” it added. “In northern half of India, BA.2.75 is the most prevalent sub-lineage whereas in middle and southern part of India, XBB is the most prevalent sub-lineage of omicron variant.” The measures that the Indian government undertook in terms of extensive vaccination coverage in a short period of time, along with natural immunity against the Omicron variant that a significant section of country’s population acquired earlier last year together prevented the disease from progressing to levels of severity in a majority of Covid positive cases, the INSACOG member said. “When hospitalisations and deaths due to the disease is not high, and even hospitalisations are seen in a small section of population such as elderly and comorbid, then rising infections should not scare us that much,” said Dr R Gangakhedkar, former head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “The mutants have continued to be from the same lineage, Omicron, for the past 17 months and this was not the character of the virus earlier that used to create a variant of concern almost every six months,” Dr Gangakhedkar said.  “Many countries have even stopped tracking new infections.” To be sure, vulnerable persons should be cautious, he added. “Highly vulnerable persons should continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and precautionary dose. No matter how mild this infection would be perceived, we do not know the impact of getting repeated Covid infections on incidence and its severity,” he said. Catch all the Business News , Breaking News Events and Latest News  Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App  to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.