Popular cryptocurrency trading ecosystem StormGain has entered into a long-term strategic collaboration with Unstoppable Domains, the first blockchain-based domain name service. This collaboration is designed to streamline the trading experience for pros and newbies and introduce new types of domain names to a general audience. According to the official announcement shared by the teams of StormGain cryptocurrency exchange and Unstoppable Domains service, the two firms started a marketing and technology collaboration. Take your crypto trading to the next level with the @StormGain_Con DEX!

Log in with your Unstoppable domain to access over 55 crypto instruments, including crypto options and tokenized commodities.

Join the decentralized trading revolution today: https://t.co/vO8iHHj2pP pic.twitter.com/7HChtmPGeC Within the framework of the partnership, Unstoppable Domains is going to offer a 25% discount ($25 maximum) on any available domains to all traders from StormGain platform. The discount is only available for five days. It will be applied automatically once claimed on the special co-branding page. With this partnership, human-readable addresses by Unstoppable Domains will serve to streamline the process of money transfer between accounts. StormGain team representatives stressed the importance of the collaboration for both products and for the cryptocurrency trading scene as a whole: We are excited to partner with Unstoppable Domains to offer our users a more secure and convenient way to access our platform. With this partnership, we are taking another step forward in our mission to provide the best possible trading experience for our users. StormGain is among the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in the futures segment. It is well known as a longsleeve partner for most winning football clubs. Besides a discount program, StormGain has integrated Unstoppable Domains as a new authorization method on StormGain DEX. Now, users can sign up to StormGain DEX with their Unstoppable Domains human-readable account name and trade seamlessly from the blockchain wallet associated with that account. This option is designed to make StormGain DEX a safer place for newcomers and seasoned traders and to make trading processes resource-optimized and cost-efficient. As both Unstoppable Domains and StormGain have multi-million-strong audiences, this collaboration is among the most anticipated events for Web3 space in Q2, 2023. Blockchain Analyst & Writer with scientific background. 6+ years in IT-analytics, 3+ years in blockchain. Worked in independent analysis as well as in start-ups (Swap.online, Monoreto, Attic Lab etc.) Disclaimer: The opinions expressed here are not investment advice; they are provided for informational purposes only. The opinions expressed by our writers are their own and do not represent the views of U.Today. Every investment and all trading involves risk, so you should always perform your own research prior to making decisions. U.Today is not liable for any financial losses incurred while trading cryptocurrencies. We do not recommend investing money you cannot afford to lose.