
        Article updated on August 12, 2024 at 7:46 AM PDT
         
    Boost your browsing privacy on the go with the best iPhone VPNs we've tested.
   We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability. 
              Privacy protection and transparency
              
    SCORE
   ExpressVPN is currently CNET’s pick for the best VPN overall, scoring an 8.8/10 on our VPN rating scale. It’s a veteran VPN provider that consistently demonstrates a strong commitment to privacy and transparency. It’s also excellent for streaming and the easiest VPN app to use on any platform, including iPhone. For the best, you’ll need to pay a premium: ExpressVPN is one of the most expensive VPN providers currently on the market. The service costs $13 per month, $60 every six months or $100 per year, which is considerably more expensive than the $45 for your first year or $60 total for the first two years that Surfshark charges (it jumps to $60 annually after your initial term for both the one- and two-year plans, which is still cheaper than Express). NordVPN is more in line with ExpressVPN's price at $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans rise to $100 after your initial term).  Although fast enough for almost any online activity, ExpressVPN’s speeds are not quite as fast as some of its competitors, based on our latest speed tests. In 2024, we measured a 24.8% average speed loss with ExpressVPN. This is still fast, considering that many VPNs can slash your internet speeds by 50% or more. We saw substantially better speeds from NordVPN (11% speed loss) and Surfshark (17% speed loss). Still, ExpressVPN’s speeds were largely consistent and aligned with our expectations across protocols and server locations. Overall, we registered the fastest speeds through ExpressVPN’s proprietary Lightway protocol, which is engineered for speed and security. Overall, speeds were generally faster to relatively closer server locations like New York City and the UK, and slower to distant locations like Australia and Singapore. Either way, ExpressVPN’s speeds were still fast enough for general browsing as well as for more data-intensive activities like streaming, gaming and videoconferencing -- especially if you use Lightway.    The company’s latest independent audit is slated to be published soon, building on its industry-leading audit count. ExpressVPN says it collects no logs, a claim bolstered by a 2023 no-logs audit by KPMG. In addition to its transparency efforts, ExpressVPN’s privacy protections are top-notch and forward-thinking. The provider recently upgraded Lightway with post-quantum protection to help guard against future threats from quantum computers, along with encryption enhancements to better protect against threats like eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks. ExpressVPN’s TrustedServer technology elevates the protections of the traditional RAM-only server architecture by reinstalling the entire software stack with every reboot.    In addition to offering excellent privacy protections, ExpressVPN delivers the most consistent and streamlined VPN app experience for iPhones. Its minimalist interface is simple to use, whether you’re an advanced VPN user or if you’ve never used one before. The app settings are easy to navigate and finding a server location is straightforward. We like how the app always connects in a snap, which isn’t always the case with other VPNs -- like Surfshark -- which often struggle to connect immediately on the first attempt. In addition to a kill switch, protocol selection and an Advanced Protection tool to block ads, trackers and malicious sites, ExpressVPN’s iOS app includes Keys, a fully functional password manager at no additional cost. If you want the best for streaming, ExpressVPN is a good bet because it effortlessly unblocks all sorts of streaming content, including Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video. The provider also recently bumped its simultaneous connection allowance up to eight, which is slightly less generous than NordVPN’s and Proton VPN's 10 simultaneous connections, but considerably less than the unlimited simultaneous connections allowed by others like Surfshark, PIA and IPVanish. If you’re not satisfied with the service, you can request your money back within 30 days of your purchase.   
              Extensive features at a great price
              
    SCORE
   Surfshark is an excellent option for anyone on a budget looking for a premium VPN solution with lots of extra features. Surfshark is currently CNET’s Editors’ Choice best value VPN thanks to the usability of the app and the quality of the features the company is able to pack into its budget-friendly offering. The app is user-friendly, and packed with useful features like multi-hop connections, an IP rotator, obfuscation, an ad and tracker blocker and a kill switch.  If you’re a fan of multi-hop connections, you’ll be happy to know that Surfhark offers the most flexibility out of any other VPN in that department. Double hop routes your connection through not one but two VPN servers for additional privacy, making it even more difficult to trace your traffic back to its original source. Surfshark allows you to create multi-hop connections out of any pair of servers you want, instead of just offering a handful of preset double VPN connections. You can select from the OpenVPN, WireGuard or IKEv2 VPN protocols and use Surfshark’s Quick Connect function to connect to the fastest location, nearest country or any preset country of your choosing (including static IPs, multi-hop combos and dedicated IPs). I like the flexibility the app offers with the Quick Connect feature, but I found that it often took a few attempts before I was able to successfully establish a connection. While most of the other VPN iPhone apps I tested connected immediately, there were times that I had to wait 30 seconds or more to connect to a server with Surfshark’s iPhone app. If that’s not a deal-breaker for you, it’s otherwise a fantastic iPhone app.  I also like that you can access Surfshark’s private search engine directly from the app, as well as a cool new feature called Alternative ID that lets you generate a randomized persona to fill out online forms without using your actual personal information. Surfshark’s $60 annual plan (after a $45 introductory price for the first year or $60 total for the first two years) makes it one of the cheapest top-tier VPN options available. 
              Perfect for power users
              
    SCORE
   NordVPN is one of the best-known VPNs on the market, partly due to its widespread marketing campaigns. Nord remains a popular virtual private network option because of its fast connections, privacy-focused features and excellent geo-unblocking for streaming services. Its combination of user-friendly design that doesn't compromise on settings makes it an outstanding choice for casual VPN newcomers and seasoned power users alike.  NordVPN’s iOS app is a breeze to use and requires no learning curve. If you’re familiar with Nord’s desktop app, you’ll find that its iOS app offers a similar experience, with a Quick Connect functionality and easy access to its server list and Meshnet. NordVPN’s iOS app isn’t as feature-rich as its Android app, but it includes an always-on kill switch, Threat Protection, multifactor authentication and dark web monitoring. You’ll also have easy access to a Statistics dashboard that displays information like your connection status, VPN IP address, connection time and protocol information. We appreciate NordVPN's commitment to privacy and security. In addition to features like Onion over VPN (Tor) and Double VPN, NordVPN offers access to obfuscated servers to help give you an extra layer of privacy. Additionally, a 2023 audit by Deloitte backed up its no-log claims for improved transparency. While zero-logging policies are impossible to verify with absolute certainty, third-party audits provide peace of mind. On the entertainment side, we had no issues streaming US and UK Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney Plus libraries on iOS. At $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years, NordVPN sets you back less initially than premium VPN rivals like ExpressVPN, but more than budget-oriented companies like Surfshark and PIA. The price spikes to $100 annually after the initial billing period on the one- and two-year plans, which aligns with more expensive VPN providers like Express. NordVPN’s global server network includes more than 6,400 servers spanning over 111 countries, which is a little more than the international reach of competitors like Surfshark and ExpressVPN. Overall, NordVPN sports advanced privacy features in an intuitive service. 
              Budget-friendly and transparent
              
    SCORE
   Private Internet Access, or PIA, is one of the best cheap VPNs on the market. Its wallet-friendly pricing sets you back just $12 per month, $40 per year or $79 for three years. By comparison, many VPNs like NordVPN and ExpressVPN typically charge $100 per year. While the value-packed Surfshark charges $45 for your first year, its price jumps to $60 after its initial introductory pricing, whereas PIA foregoes price hikes altogether in favor of transparent pricing.  Despite its relatively low cost, PIA doesn’t cut corners with any of its apps, including its iOS app. Although it’s not the most feature-rich VPN, you’ll get a solid privacy suite on your iPhone, including a kill switch that stops your internet if your VPN gets disconnected, protocol selection (OpenVPN, IKEv2 and WireGuard) and encryption settings that allow you to fine-tune the level of encryption you use. While iOS/iPadOS don't support split tunneling, PIA is one of the few VPNs that allow for split tunneling on MacOS. Split tunneling lets you use a VPN connection for some apps but not others. If you're ingrained in the Apple ecosystem, PIA is a solid choice. Another feature we like is PIA’s Automation feature, which allows you to automatically connect to the VPN when you’re on a specific network or network type. For example, you can set your PIA iPhone app to automatically connect when you’re on an open Wi-Fi network or on a mobile network. This is especially useful if you want to protect your data on your iPhone when you’re out and about. PIA also boasts unlimited simultaneous connections the pricier ExpressVPN and NordVPN limit you to eight and ten, respectively.  Its extensive network of 35,000 servers spread throughout 91 countries (including in all 50 US states) makes Private Internet Access great for travel. PIA offers nearly as many individual country locations as rivals like ExpressVPN (105), (100), ProtonVPN (112) and NordVPN (111)while trouncing IPVanish (56). In our experience, we found PIA unblocked Disney Plus, Netflix and Amazon Prime Video on both US and UK servers, making it a good VPN for streaming.  PIA delivered middling internet speeds in our testing with an average speed loss of 49%. All VPNs slow down your connection somewhat, with the fastest VPNs offering an average internet speed loss of 25% or less. For instance, NordVPN -- the quickest VPN we benchmarked -- provided a best-in-class 11% reduction, while Surfshark clocked a solid 17%. Folks with faster internet connections like fiber shouldn’t notice a difference even with a higher speed loss, but PIA isn’t ideal for people with slower speeds like satellite internet users. Even a 50% speed loss with a 50Mbps connection is still enough for some bandwidth-intensive activities like 4K video streaming (Netflix recommends a minimum of 15Mbps).  With its decent features, pricing transparency and subscriptions that significantly undercut the competition, PIA remains a solid VPN that’s gentle on the pocketbook. Its relative affordability compared to VPN rivals makes PIA’s speed issues easy to overlook. We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability. ExpressVPN is currently CNET's top pick for the best iPhone VPN, thanks to its excellent privacy protection and simple, user-friendly mobile interface. While that's our top pick, the other VPN providers listed below are all more than worthy of consideration, depending on exactly what you're looking for in a VPN for your iPhone.  Surfshark is an exceptional wallet-friendly VPN that doesn't break the bank or compromise on features, like advanced privacy settings or speed. NordVPN is the fastest VPN we tested, with blazing-fast speeds that are perfect for 4K video streaming or gaming. PIA is a solid budget-friendly VPN that's privacy-focused and transparent. Using a VPN on your iPhone encrypts your internet activity and browsing habits, blocking your ISP and mobile carrier from seeing your browsing info. A virtual private network will also keep your public IP address hidden, blocking websites and apps from seeing your physical location, which lets you circumvent throttling, bypass censorship or access geographically restricted content like foreign Netflix libraries.  iPhone users expect a high level of service when it comes to Apple's signature smartphone. Likewise, when you're looking for the best iPhone VPN, you'll want a virtual private network that offers solid privacy, sleek app design, a user-friendly interface, fast speeds and excellent region-restricted content unblocking. Our experts at CNET have tested roughly a dozen of the top VPN providers on the market across a diverse set of platforms, including iOS and iPadOS, to figure out which are the best of the bunch. With so many iPhone VPN apps available, it can be difficult to choose the right solution. Based on our extensive research and hands-on testing of VPNs over the years, these are the factors to look out for when choosing a VPN for your iPhone: The primary consideration for any VPN should be privacy. If your iPhone VPN is unable to deliver a sufficient level of privacy, then your VPN is practically useless. Your VPN should offer industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption over the OpenVPN and IKEv2 VPN protocols or ChaCha20 with WireGuard, along with basic privacy protections like a kill switch, DNS leak protection and a no-logs policy. If your privacy needs are critical, you'll need a VPN provider that is based in a privacy-friendly jurisdiction, offers obfuscation and has a RAM-only server architecture. Additional privacy features to look out for include Tor-over-VPN functionality, ad and tracker blockers and multi-hop connections. It's also important to choose a VPN that's trustworthy, transparent and undergoes regular third-party security audits, which can help bolster trust in the VPN's ability to protect your privacy. Your VPN's connection speeds can have a major influence on the quality of your streaming, downloading, video conferencing, gaming and general web-browsing activities. All virtual private networks slow down your internet somewhat, simply by nature of encrypting your traffic and sending it through at least one server before moving on to its final destination. To keep things running as smoothly as possible, you'll want a VPN that will have as minimal an impact on your regular internet speeds as possible. Generally, we recommend a VPN with an internet speed loss of 25% or less. In our testing, we've seen as low as an average 11% internet download speed loss. For bandwidth-demanding applications like competitive gaming or 4K video streaming, you'll want a snappy VPN.   A good iPhone VPN should run smoothly and be easy to use regardless of your technical expertise. It should have all of the features you need easily accessible with a tap of your finger. Many iPhone VPN apps also include an easy way to get in touch with support directly from the device, which can be helpful if you need assistance on the go. Basically, your iPhone VPN app should be as easy for you to use as your iPhone itself. It should have a large network of servers around the world so you can connect easily and reliably from wherever you may be traveling, and it should be able to help you access geo-restricted content from various regions.  Depending on your budget, you may want to take into account the cost and overall value of your iPhone VPN before making a purchase. VPN pricing can vary greatly from provider to provider, but you can typically expect to spend about $5 to $13 per month for a monthly VPN subscription plan. If you want to save some money, you can opt for an annual subscription, where prices can range from roughly $30 to $100 per year. You'll want to be careful with free VPNs because you may end up risking your privacy instead of protecting it with a free VPN. Proton VPN is currently the only free VPN that CNET recommends.  Most premium VPNs offer a money-back guarantee anywhere from a week to 45 days. You can also get a seven-day free trial with many VPNs when you sign up through Apple's App Store, so you have options to try various iPhone VPNs risk-free before you decide whether to fully invest in one.    While you'll want a VPN for your iPhone to work, well, on iOS and iPadOS, chances are you've got a slew of other devices you may want to run a VPN on. Most VPNs work on Windows, MacOS and Linux PCs. In addition to iPhones and iPads, the majority of virtual private networks also offer Android apps. While Android TV and Fire TV apps are common for use on streaming devices, Apple TV apps are still on the rise. Providers like NordVPN, ExpressVPN, Surfshark, PIA and IPVanish feature Apple TV VPN apps. Think about the devices you want to install a VPN app on and make sure your desired VPN company supports those gadgets. When we evaluate the best iPhone VPNs, we thoroughly test the features offered on each VPN's iPhone app to see how they compare to the competition. We carefully consider the look and feel of the app and the overall usability of the software, including how easy it is to establish a connection, bearing in mind the user experience iPhone users are accustomed to. We test the performance and reliability of the VPN connection on each of the protocols available in the provider's iPhone app. We test for leaks and we pay special attention to each service's kill switch functionality and ensure it's working as it should. We test each VPN's ability to circumvent geographical restrictions and access streaming sites. Finally, we evaluate each provider's pricing to determine the service's overall value.   If you need a completely free VPN for your iPhone, Proton VPN is the way to go. With Proton VPN, you can get access to three server locations without paying a dime. Unlike many other free VPNs, Proton doesn't put any restrictions on usage or speed. If you want the full, premium version of Proton VPN, it's $10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $80 annually), putting it in the middle of the pack in terms of price. The paid version of Proton offers 6,500-plus servers in 112 countries and 10 simultaneous connections.  Proton VPN is a great option for privacy-minded VPN users thanks to its open-source apps, robust privacy policy and privacy-friendly Swiss jurisdiction. On the entertainment side, Proton works well for geo-unblocking foreign content on apps like Netflix and Disney Plus, making is a great VPN for streaming. Proton is the best free option with a solid premium plan and an excellent VPN solution overall. Read our Proton VPN review. IPVanish's iPhone app is fairly easy to use and features a prominent Connect button on the Home screen that'll get you connected quickly. If you navigate to the Locations screen to select a specific server, you can either connect to the Optimal Location or choose from a list of servers. However, after you've connected, there's no indication of whether you're connected or not unless you navigate back to the Home screen. Even if you connect to the Optimal Location, the Connect button on the Locations screen still says "Connect" -- which can lead to some confusion.  Although IPVanish's iPhone app isn't as streamlined as the others on this list, it includes split tunneling functionality -- a feature most VPNs don't offer with their iPhone apps. Even so, it's difficult to enthusiastically recommend IPVanish to iPhone users, considering that far superior services are available for the same price or cheaper. IPVanish costs $13 per month, $34 for the first year or $53 for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans jump to $90 annually).  Read our IPVanish review.  ExpressVPN is currently CNET’s top pick for the best iPhone VPN thanks to its reliability, responsiveness and ease of use. Surfshark is an excellent alternative if you’re on a budget but want an iPhone VPN that boasts a wealth of features. CNET’s third pick is NordVPN, which is a veteran VPN provider that offers an excellent iPhone app that’s a breeze to use.    Recent independent research claims that VPNs on iOS devices leak user traffic outside of the VPN tunnel, unencrypted. VPN providers have pointed out that the vulnerability exists on Apple’s side and affects all VPNs on iOS devices. Proton VPN outlined a workaround to the issue in a blog post, advising iOS VPN users to connect to a VPN server, enable Airplane mode (to kill existing internet connections and temporarily disable the VPN) and disable Airplane mode. The VPN should then reconnect with all internet connections running through the VPN tunnel. Proton notes that it’s not a 100% guarantee that the VPN will be rendered leak-free through this process, but it can only help. Your internet service provider or mobile carrier can see that you're connected to a VPN, but it won’t be able to see the websites you visit or your browsing history, because your iPhone VPN encrypts your online traffic. Your ISP/mobile carrier will also see things like the IP address of the VPN server you're connected to, the timestamps of when you're connected and the amount of data you've transmitted. If you want to hide the fact that you’re using a VPN altogether, you can connect to an obfuscated server, if offered by your VPN.