Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Thursday January 05, 2023 , 1 min Read ﻿Xoriant﻿, a software engineering and digital IT services provider, has been acquired by private equity firm ChrysCapital.   This is the second buyout from ChrysCapital's ninth fund and the company's ninth business services buyout since inception.  “Our 5,000+ employees and associates across the globe are our true X-Factor, as well as our customers who have repeatedly shown their trust in us," said Girish Gaitonde, Founder & CEO, Xoriant. "I am excited to team up with Sanjay Jalona and ChrysCapital for the next phase of this journey."  Xoriant, which is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, provides services and solutions focused on digital product engineering, cloud infrastructure and operations, security, data engineering/management and analytics. It has Fortune 100 customers worldwide.   ChrysCapital invests in business services (IT/engineering/business process), financial services, pharma, and consumer-focused companies.   “At ChrysCapital, we have developed deep expertise with digital IT services across industry verticals... We are confident of the value addition that ChrysCapital would bring to Xoriant," said Akshat Babbar, Director, ChrysCapital.   "[We are committed to building further] on the company’s client set, long-standing relationships, domain, and service-line expertise as well as digital IT offerings," he added.  Edited by Teja Lele 1 2 Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! 3 Entrepreneur Raj Shamani on his entrepreneurial journey and becoming a content creator
 4 2024's Hottest freelancing jobs in India - Don't miss out! 5 Is Tier 3 India Ready for Its Own DMart?