The already stellar lineup at the second annual Pure Imagination festival at Watson Lake Park in Prescott, Arizona, just got better with the news that Los Lobos and Dirtwire will join Lucinda Williams, Ziggy Marley, Allison Russell, Brandy Clark, Capital Cities and more at the eco-forward, female-founded boutique festival on Saturday, May 20, 2023. The lineup also features sets by Ponderosa Grove, Jared James Nichols, the Brummies, Johan Glidden and DJ sets by Cole Ramstad. The inaugural Pure Imagination festival in 2022, which featured Talib Kweli, Dawes, Fantastic Negrito, Nikki Lane, Rising Appalachia, Phantom Planet and Katie Pruitt, drew more than 5,000 music fans to Prescott for a family-friendly event that also featured aerial artists, performance groups, jugglers and art cars. Pure Imagination founder Candace Devine, who is scheduled to perform with her band, Ponderosa Grove, says, "I am so thrilled that Pure Imagination festival was embraced so beautifully in our inaugural year. It’s the energy of our community and those who travel from near and far that create the magic that has continued to inspire all of us." The festival at Watson Lake Park also boasts miles of hiking trails, lawn games, disc golf, 20 food trucks and opportunities to paddle on the lake. You can't kayak at Coachella, kids. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. 'I Never Cry' revisited:Phoenix siblings cover 1 of Alice Cooper's biggest hits. Here's what Alice thinks of it Tickets are $85, on sale now at pureimagination.frontgatetickets.com. Premium tickets are $175, offering premium visibility of both stages, catering by El Gato Azul, a beauty bar by Desert Rose Retreat, a private bar and restrooms. Both options include unlimited re-entry with festival wristband. Best bets in metro Phoenix this weekend:From a must-see festival to movie night, you can't go wrong Reserve one of the 34 campsites at pureimagination.frontgatetickets.com to camp Friday and Saturday night on the festival grounds. A camping pass includes access to showers. Campsites will be assigned by the camp host at check-in. There's a limit of two tents or one RV per site. No hook-ups are available. Camping passes are $150. Festival news:This rapper is bringing a music festival to Yuma: 'Perfect place to build something new' There are 500 on-site parking spots available to purchase in advance at pureimagination.frontgatetickets.com, allowing you to come and go with a guaranteed spot. Parking passes are $40. Highs and lows of M3F 2023:Dance-worthy funk, soul, EDM and Maggie Rogers; ear-gouging sound issues Reach the reporter at ed.masley@arizonarepublic.com or 602-444-4495. Follow him on Twitter @EdMasley. Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com.