We determine the top Orthopedic Doctors in Jaipur options by looking at a combination of experience, hospital quality scores, distance, and appointment availability. Senior Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  21 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopaedics, Orthopedic Doctor  15 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Arthroplasty, Orthopaedic and Trauma , Orthopedic Doctor  15 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Arthroscopy and Sports Medicine Surgery, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  4 Feedbacks Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma, Orthopedic Doctor  12 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty, Arthroscopy And Sports Injury, Orthopedic Doctor  12 Years experience  Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma, Orthopedic Doctor  11 Years experience  Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  8 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Learn more about our methodology for highest rated healthcare professionals. Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  8 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma, Orthopedic Doctor  12 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Arthroplasty, Orthopaedic and Trauma , Orthopedic Doctor  15 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma, Orthopedic Doctor  11 Years experience  Senior Consultant - Orthopedics, Orthopedic Doctor  21 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Orthopaedics, Orthopedic Doctor  15 Years experience  5 Feedbacks Consultant - Arthroscopy and Sports Medicine Surgery, Orthopedic Doctor  14 Years experience  4 Feedbacks Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty, Arthroscopy And Sports Injury, Orthopedic Doctor  12 Years experience  Learn more about our methodology for affiliated healthcare professionals. Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty 14 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Consultant - Orthopaedics 15 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Narayana Multispeciality Hospital, Jaipur  Rs. 600 Consult Fees Consultant - Arthroplasty, Orthopaedic and Trauma  15 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Consultant - Orthopedics 14 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Shalby Hospital, Surat  Rs. 1,000 Consult Fees Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma 12 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Senior Consultant - Orthopedics 21 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Narayana Multispeciality Hospital, Jaipur  Rs. 600 Consult Fees Consultant - Orthopaedic and Trauma 11 Years of experience  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Rs. 800 Consult Fees Senior Consultant - Arthroplasty, Arthroscopy And Sports Injury 12 Years of experience  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Rs. 800 Consult Fees Consultant - Arthroscopy and Sports Medicine Surgery 14 Years of experience 4 Feedbacks  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  Rs. 800 Consult Fees Consultant - Orthopedics 8 Years of experience 5 Feedbacks  Shalby Multispecialty Hospital, Jaipur  We evaluate hospital quality based solely on performance and clinical outcomes. Multi Speciality Hospital Multi Speciality Hospital Single Speciality Hospital List of best orthopedic doctors in Jaipur. Get detailed info on educational qualification, experience and other credentials of orthopedic doctors in Jaipur. Check OPD schedule and book appointment online with best orthopedic doctors from top hospitals in Jaipur. Call +918010994994 to talk to in-house Credihealth experts for FREE medical assistance to choose the right orthopedic doctors, get options for Second Opinion or other medical assistance. What happens in an orthopaedic exam?  Your doctor will assess your general ability to move in various postures such as walking, sitting, standing, climbing stairs, bending forward and backward, and so on. These tests are performed to rule out or confirm potential diagnoses.  How long does arthroscopic surgery take?  The actual procedure lasts around 30 minutes. The treatment may take up to 45 minutes if substantial work is required. With a general anesthetic, most patients "go fully to sleep." Some people have surgery while under spinal anesthesia.  How long does it take to recover from orthopaedic surgery?  Some people require a few weeks to recover. Others may have to wait many months. Even if you underwent total joint replacement surgery, you may be able to go home the same day or the next day depending on your overall health, the disease for which you were treated, and the type of surgery conducted.  How long does it take to recover from an arthroscopy?  Patients may need crutches or a walker for a few days following surgery if they are in discomfort. Most patients are able to walk with a minor limp one or two weeks following surgery after they are more comfortable. The majority of patients improve from arthroscopic knee surgery within 4 to 6 weeks.  What happens at the first orthopaedic appointment?  Your initial orthopedic session will almost certainly involve a thorough medical history examination, diagnostic imaging (X-rays and/or MRI), and physical testing. The checklist below will assist you and your orthopedic doctor in discussing the critical topics for getting the most out of your first orthopedic session.  Is arthroscopy painful?  It is common to experience some knee soreness for many weeks following arthroscopic surgery. Recovering from this surgery includes decreasing swelling, strengthening muscles, and relieving discomfort.  What is an orthopaedic injury?  Any damage to the musculoskeletal system is classified as an orthopedic injury. These injuries to the bones and joints are frequently the consequence of a bodily accident or trauma.  Where can I make an appointment?  Credihealth can give you all the information from prices to the best doctors and hospitals. You can also make an appointment online through Credihealth.  How do I make an appointment?  You can type keywords like “orthopaedic doctor in Jaipur” and you will get all the information in one place.  Reviewed by:Dr. Nitika Sharma - BDS Reviewed by:Dr. Benuka Bansal - BDS Average Rating 4.391 Reviews