Drinking alcoholGetty Images Dear Amy: I wonder if you’d consider a different viewpoint regarding your advice to “Concerned Grandma,” the woman worried because her 17-year-old grandson’s parents allowed him to drink at home in an effort to normalize drinking before college. I grew up in a country where it was common for older teens to drink at home. Wine with a meal or a small cocktail before dinner was all considered normal. When I arrived in the states in 1974 to attend college, I was horrified to see how my classmates drank themselves into a stupor. I remember one winter how distressed I was to see some of them passed out on top of snowbanks. My brothers also attended college in the US, and we all agreed it was a very “American” thing. If Concerned Grandma is otherwise confident that these are sensible parents, perhaps she would feel better knowing that other cultures deal with youth drinking in a different way. Not better or worse, just different. – Long-Time Lectora Dear Lectora: I agree that this is a distressing “American thing.” Thank you for offering a sensible perspective. (You can email Amy Dickinson at askamy@amydickinson.com or send a letter to Ask Amy, P.O. Box 194, Freeville, NY 13068. You can also follow her on Twitter @askingamy or Facebook.) ©2023 Amy Dickinson. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices