Once the meticulous restoration and upgrades with a modern twist is complete, the rejuvenated Brumby will be raffled off to raise  funds to support Subaru Australia's partner the Australian Road Safety Foundation (ARSF). Marty and Moog, the visionary minds behind Mighty Car Mods, will embark on an exciting journey to revitalise a dormant 1992 Subaru Brumby, which has slumbered in a barn nestled within a Bilpin apple orchard for more than a decade. They aim to blend the essence of the past with the innovation of the present, breathing fresh life into this classic two-door Ute. Mighty Car Mods co-creator, Marty said: "I've had Subarus in my family since I was a kid, and owned many over the years so the opportunity to resto-mod this iconic Ute as well as support a good cause is an exciting opportunity. It's months of hard work by us and some of our trusted friends, and the videos will give an insight into how something like this comes together." Subaru Australia has been supporting the Australian Road Safety Foundation for several years, boosting awareness and funding for the non-profit's goal of addressing the harm caused by road accidents, including injuries, death and mental distress. This mission is closely aligned with Subaru Corporation's aim to eliminate accidents in their vehicles by 2030* through their 'Towards Zero' safety vision. Subaru Australia's Managing Director, Blair Read said: "To celebrate our 50th year we wanted to combine people's love for iconic older vehicles and our passion for road safety. To partner with two automotive trailblazers to serve a cause that resonates with our core values is the 50-year Subaru pioneering spirit at its best." The Brumby's rejuvenation t can be closely followed via Might Car Mods YouTube channel, with the first episode already unveiled, Subaru Brumby Barn Find Restoration.   Newsletter Signup Sign-up to receive the weekly email newsletter. Latest Comments Subscribe Australasian Paint & Panel magazine provides informative and entertaining content to autobody and paint shop industry workers throughout Australia. Learn Connect We acknowledge the Traditional Custodians of country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and community. We pay our respect to Elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.