Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 July stargazing this year kicks off with the first full “supermoon” of the year on July 3. The term “supermoon” has always bugged me. Its origin comes from astrology rather than the actual science of astronomy. Nonetheless, it’s become a media darling. A supermoon is generally defined as a full moon that’s a little closer to Earth than average. Because the moon’s 27.3-day orbit around Earth is an ellipse and not a perfect circle, the moon has maximum and minimum distances from Earth in each orbit. The full moon this month, and three other full moons this year, will be a little closer to Earth than average. As a result, this month’s full moon will be slightly larger and brighter than usual. I certainly wouldn’t describe the difference as “super,” though.(Mike Lynch)After the first week of July, stargazing will improve with most of the bright moonlight out of the early evening sky. The bright planet Venus is still hanging low in the west in the early evening during the first half of the month. Just to the upper left of Venus is the much fainter planet Mars. Both planets are leaving the evening sky this month. Every night in July, Venus and Mars will start the evening lower and lower in the western sky, and by the end of the month, they’ll be lost in the evening twilight. Before that happens, you should get a last look at them through your telescope. Honestly, it’s not much of a view. Mars is more or less an orange-red dot because it’s so far away from Earth now. Venus is a little more interesting. Even being completely cloud-covered, it resembles a crescent moon. Both Venus and Mercury go through phase cycles like our moon because they orbit the sun inside the Earth’s orbit. Before Venus checks out of the evening sky, it will have a super close encounter with the moon. On July 19 and 20, the new crescent moon will hang close to the planet named after the Roman goddess of love.The first actual star to pop into view in June is Arcturus in the high southwest sky. It’s considered a red-giant star, nearing the end of its stellar life. Even to the naked eye, Arcturus has an orange-red glow to it. Arcturus is the brightest star in the constellation Bootes the Herdsman, which resembles a giant kite more than a herdsman. Arcturus marks the kite’s tail. Not far away from Bootes is the faint constellation Hercules the Hero. Within its boundaries is one of the best things you can view through a telescope, the Great Hercules Cluster. It’s also known as Messier object 13 or M13, a spherical cluster of at least a half million ancient stars over 25,000 light-years away. Just one light-year equals nearly 6 trillion miles.High in the eastern heavens, you should be able to easily see the bright stars that make up the “Summer Triangle.” Each of these stars is the brightest in their respective constellations, Vega in Lyra the Lyre, Altair in Aquila the Eagle, and Deneb, the brightest shiner in Cygnus the Swan. One of my favorite little constellations, Delphinus the Dolphin, is not far from the star Altair. It really looks like a little dolphin.In the low southern sky is the classic summer constellation Scorpius the Scorpion, with the enormous red supergiant star Antares marking the heart of the beast. It’s over 600 light-years away. Antares is so large that if it took the place of the sun in our solar system, the planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars would live inside Antares. Talk about global warming!For you late-night stargazers, Saturn is on the rise not that far from Sagittarius, just above the eastern horizon by midnight. This is Saturn’s first appearance in the evening sky before midnight since February. Unlike Mars and Venus in the early evening this month, Saturn is one of the best telescope targets in the sky, even for smaller telescopes. You can easily see Saturn’s ring system and even some of its moons that resemble little stars buzzing around the ringed wonder of our solar system. Saturn’s largest and brightest moon, Titan, has a thick atmosphere. If you can stay up late enough, try to view Saturn through your telescope after 1 a.m., allowing Saturn to rise above the blurring effects of our atmosphere near the horizon. On July 7, the waning full-gibbous moon will rise just below Saturn. In August, Saturn will rise earlier and, and get much closer to Earth.Enjoy the warmer summer night skies of July!Mike Lynch is an amateur astronomer and retired broadcast meteorologist for WCCO Radio in Minneapolis/St. Paul. He is the author of “Stars: a Month by Month Tour of the Constellations,” published by Adventure Publications and available at bookstores and adventurepublications.net. Mike is available for private star parties. You can contact him at mikewlynch@comcast.net.

Related Articles
Outdoors |  

			Skywatch: Get a stellar start to your day		


Outdoors |  

			Skywatch: Perseid meteor pleasure		


Outdoors |  

			Skywatch: Cat’s eyes of the summer skies		


Outdoors |  

			Skywatch: Perseids, planets and more		


Outdoors |  

			Skywatch: Lunar landing memories		

 After the first week of July, stargazing will improve with most of the bright moonlight out of the early evening sky. The bright planet Venus is still hanging low in the west in the early evening during the first half of the month. Just to the upper left of Venus is the much fainter planet Mars. Both planets are leaving the evening sky this month. Every night in July, Venus and Mars will start the evening lower and lower in the western sky, and by the end of the month, they’ll be lost in the evening twilight. Before that happens, you should get a last look at them through your telescope. Honestly, it’s not much of a view. Mars is more or less an orange-red dot because it’s so far away from Earth now. Venus is a little more interesting. Even being completely cloud-covered, it resembles a crescent moon. Both Venus and Mercury go through phase cycles like our moon because they orbit the sun inside the Earth’s orbit. Before Venus checks out of the evening sky, it will have a super close encounter with the moon. On July 19 and 20, the new crescent moon will hang close to the planet named after the Roman goddess of love. The first actual star to pop into view in June is Arcturus in the high southwest sky. It’s considered a red-giant star, nearing the end of its stellar life. Even to the naked eye, Arcturus has an orange-red glow to it. Arcturus is the brightest star in the constellation Bootes the Herdsman, which resembles a giant kite more than a herdsman. Arcturus marks the kite’s tail. Not far away from Bootes is the faint constellation Hercules the Hero. Within its boundaries is one of the best things you can view through a telescope, the Great Hercules Cluster. It’s also known as Messier object 13 or M13, a spherical cluster of at least a half million ancient stars over 25,000 light-years away. Just one light-year equals nearly 6 trillion miles. High in the eastern heavens, you should be able to easily see the bright stars that make up the “Summer Triangle.” Each of these stars is the brightest in their respective constellations, Vega in Lyra the Lyre, Altair in Aquila the Eagle, and Deneb, the brightest shiner in Cygnus the Swan. One of my favorite little constellations, Delphinus the Dolphin, is not far from the star Altair. It really looks like a little dolphin. In the low southern sky is the classic summer constellation Scorpius the Scorpion, with the enormous red supergiant star Antares marking the heart of the beast. It’s over 600 light-years away. Antares is so large that if it took the place of the sun in our solar system, the planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars would live inside Antares. Talk about global warming! For you late-night stargazers, Saturn is on the rise not that far from Sagittarius, just above the eastern horizon by midnight. This is Saturn’s first appearance in the evening sky before midnight since February. Unlike Mars and Venus in the early evening this month, Saturn is one of the best telescope targets in the sky, even for smaller telescopes. You can easily see Saturn’s ring system and even some of its moons that resemble little stars buzzing around the ringed wonder of our solar system. Saturn’s largest and brightest moon, Titan, has a thick atmosphere. If you can stay up late enough, try to view Saturn through your telescope after 1 a.m., allowing Saturn to rise above the blurring effects of our atmosphere near the horizon. On July 7, the waning full-gibbous moon will rise just below Saturn. In August, Saturn will rise earlier and, and get much closer to Earth. Enjoy the warmer summer night skies of July! Mike Lynch is an amateur astronomer and retired broadcast meteorologist for WCCO Radio in Minneapolis/St. Paul. He is the author of “Stars: a Month by Month Tour of the Constellations,” published by Adventure Publications and available at bookstores and adventurepublications.net. Mike is available for private star parties. You can contact him at mikewlynch@comcast.net. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group