Get ready for summer with sustainably-made sandals for the whole family. Whether sunshine is in your forecast or you’re looking forward to the return of warm weather, having a good pair of sandals is a must. Even better is a pair of sandals that are sustainably and ethically produced. While finding sandals that check all the boxes when it comes to being environmentally and socially conscious can be a chore, many companies are taking steps in the right direction, even if full sustainability has yet to be achieved. This list will give you a head start with stylish and eco-minded sandals for the whole family. From flip flops to water- and hike-ready sandals, there’s something for everyone on this list. And, the nice thing about sandal trends is classic always seems to work, which is another nod to the importance of sustainability for buying long-lasting, well-made sandals. Harper White Leather Sandals by ALOHAS As a stylish nod to the dad sandal, these Harper Leather Sandals by ALOHAS come in seven color options and feature molded footbeds and gold-tone buckles for the ultimate combination of comfort and style. Made in Spain from sustainable leather, these sandals are Leather Working Group Certified. Cushion Rem Hi Sandals by REEF Another solid combination of style and comfort, Cushion Rem Hi Sandals by REEF are made with 100% post-consumer plastic material straps and comfy EVA soles with cork topsheet. Available in three color options, these platform sandals can be paired with anything from a summer dress to shorts. Best of all, they’re comfortable enough to wear walking with an elastic backstrap and comfy footbed. Kids Water Beachy Sandals by REEF For a water-friendly kids option, try these Water Beachy Sandals by REEF. While the EVA they’re made from is one of the more eco-friendly plastics, REEF is also committed to beach clean-up and reef preservation. These sandals are durable, easy to put on, and ready to get wet. They’re also available in four color options including pink and malibu smoothie to fit every young taste. Little Water Vista by REEF For the smallest feet in the family, these Little Water Vista Sandals by REEF feature a Velcro strap for easy adjustment. They’re water ready, super lightweight, and come in five cute colors. And, if mom’s a fan, she can match with the grownup version, which feature an espadrille inspired look. GREEN Bicolalf Flip Flops by ECOALF Finding eco-friendly flip flops can be tricky but these GREEN Bicolalf Flip Flops by ECOALF fit the bill. Made primarily from recycled used tires and rubber, they’re produced under ethical working conditions and made from traceable components. ECOALF is also a Certified B Corporation with transparent ratings of each product on the site. Sugar Sliders by allbirds Both dad and athletic sandals have made a comeback in recent years, making these utilitarian Sugar Sliders by allbirds on-trend. Available in three colors (including a really fun honey rust), they’re made from sustainable sugarcane for a biomaterial-based shoe that’s bouncy and comfortable. Best of all, they’re available in both women’s and men’s sizes for a truly unisex offering.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.