Home > People > People moves > Superbet reshuffles leadership team Stephen Parry will take on the role of chief operations officer and oversee a newly created hub covering retail, trading and business operations. Parry joins Superbet after a spell as chief executive of William Hill International, while he also spent time as COO of William Hill Group and chief integration officer at Flutter. Meanwhile, Superbet also appointed Andrei Dușu as chief business development officer. In his new role, Dușu will lead mergers and acquisitions, international expansion, business intelligence and strategy. An experienced senior executive, Dușu is the co-founder of Flawless, an AI-powered, real-time support application for business operations teams. Dușu also held leadership roles in strategy, product, data and commercial teams across companies like Google and OLX Group. Elsewhere, Glyn Hughes will move into the role of chief financial officer. Hughes previously held the same position at both International Workplace Group and Mothercare, while he also spent time in executive roles at the Jardine Matheson Group and Dairy Farm Group. Parry, Dușu and Hughes will all report directly to Superbet CEO Johnny Hartnett. “As we embark on the next stage of our growth journey, it is incredibly exciting to add experienced and capable leaders like Stephen, Andrei and Glyn to the Superbet management team,” Hartnett said.  “Their experience across a range of sectors and geographies means they will be a critical part of executing our ambition – to take the business from our home in CEE to the rest of Europe and beyond.”  In other news, Superbet also announced the appointment of Adam Lamentowicz as vice-president of its new Superbet International division. Previously CEO and country manager for Superbet Poland, Lamentowicz will supervise all international operations under the Superbet brand, with the exception of Romania.  The latest series of hires comes after Superbet in February appointed Hans-Holger Albrecht as its new chairman. Albrecht is currently chairman of online real estate platform Scout24 Group and audiobook and e-book streaming service Storytel. He is also a member of the board at communications and digital services platform Veon Ventures. Prior to this, he was CEO of music streaming service Deezer and spent time as president and CEO of telecom and media group Tigo/Millicom International. In addition, Albrecht had a spell as president and CEO at Modern Times Group MTG AB, a media business active in Scandinavia and East Europe.