The leading voice on life, politics, culture and social activism direct to your inbox.   The adventure athlete and author who was the first person to run a marathon in every country selects his favourite books about endurance running Image: David Mark Limitless is about courage and tough decisions while in the pit of pain. A 55-year-old mother of three, Mimi is a true adventure athlete. For 40 days, she pushed herself for more than 2,000 miles, despite the onset of severe pain, until forced to make a crushing decision: carry on and risk injury or give up on her all-time goal. The tale of McNuff who, despite not having run a single mile without shoes before, decides to take on a mission to run 100 marathons in bare feet. It’s funny and painfully honest. A journalist stumbling into running goes on to become one of the best in the world. The story of ultrarunner Damian Hall’s Pennine Way record attempt in 2020. Funny, witty and brilliantly put together. At the age of 40, an out-of-shape Roll transformed himself into one of the world’s best endurance athletes. A beautifully written portrait of what willpower can accomplish. In 2018 Jamie ran 5,500 miles, solo and unsupported, coast to coast across the US. An impressive feat for anyone, let alone someone who was told as a child that they might never walk again. Oh, and he did it all dressed in his superhero suit to raise funds for sick children. Running the World by Nick Butter is out now (Transworld, £10.99). You can buy some of these titles from The Big Issue shop on Bookshop.org, which helps to support The Big Issue and independent bookshops. This article is taken from The Big Issue magazine, which exists to give homeless, long-term unemployed and marginalised people the opportunity to earn an income.To support our work buy a copy! If you cannot reach your local vendor, you can still click HERE to subscribe to The Big Issue today or give a gift subscription to a friend or family member. You can also purchase one-off issues from The Big Issue Shop or The Big Issue app, available now from the App Store or Google Play. Subscribe to your local Big Issue vendor  By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive
										messages from the Big Issue and our partners.