Before LeBron James was a four-time NBA champion, four-time MVP, and the NBA's all-time leading scorer, he was the most highly-touted high school basketball star of all time.  His new movie 'Shooting Stars' chronicles his ascension to becoming one of the best players in basketball history, playing alongside his childhood best friends at St. Vincent-St. Mary High School. The tight-knit group of friends went on to become the No. 1 team in the country, winning multiple state championships before James was drafted No. 1 by the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2003. “Even if your job happens to be the most amazing basketball player in the history of basketball, [when you have] that group of friends, all that doesn’t matter,” director Chris Robinson said. “It’s just joy when you're connected. And I think that’s what's his superpower is. You know, his basketball IQ is off the charts. But I think his superpower is that this group of friends, this community, this village, they’re still connected.” Emmy nominee Chris Robinson directed the film, with Academy Award nominees Terence Winter, Rachel Winter and Spencer Beighley as producers, alongside James and childhood friend and business partner Maverick Carter.  Here's everything you need to know about the movie. MORE: Four reasons why LeBron to the Mavericks (probably) isn't happening Based on a book by James and Pulitzer Prize-winning author Buzz Bissinger, 'Shooting Stars' tells the story of LeBron James and his childhood friends Dru Joyce III, Willie McGee, Sian Cotton, and Romeo Travis, who to moved from the Akron public school to the St. Vincent-St. Mary High School, to ensure they could all play together and continue their journey from their rec league team, Shooting Stars. The movie not only focuses on their on court success, but the hardships they overcame together  The official synopsis reads as follows: Shooting Stars is set in the 1990s, where a young LeBron James (Cook) and his three best friends — Lil Dru (Caleb McLaughlin, Stranger Things), Willie McGee (Avery S. Wills, Jr., Swagger) and Sian Cotton (Khalil Everage, Cobra Kai) — declare themselves the 'Fab Four,' after the famed Michigan Wolverines' 'Fab Five' of that era. From the moment we meet them, we realize this group of friends, under the guidance of coach Dru Joyce (Wood Harris; Creed franchise), is connected by more than basketball. So, when the coach at the top basketball school in their district threatens to separate them by putting Lil Dru on junior varsity, the Fab Four decide to switch schools to be able to play varsity together, joining the team at a predominantly white Catholic school instead. The community takes this as an insult, but the boys' dedication to each other is more important than anything else. With their new coach (Dermot Mulroney; August: Osage County), a disgraced former college coach seeking redemption of his own, the boys, along with former rival and new teammate Romeo Travis (newcomer Sterling 'Scoot' Henderson), will face battles not only on the court but in real life, in their quest to become national champs, and will rediscover that what matters most about the game is the people playing beside you. The film will officially be released on June 2, 2023. Shooting Stars isn't getting a theatrical release and will be released exclusively on Peacock. Shooting Stars features some high-level basketball talent, with Mookie Cook, a 6-foot-8 forward who is committed to Oregon, playing James, alongside highly-touted 2023 NBA Draft prospect Scoot Henderson, who plays Romeo Travis. University of Michigan forward Jett Howard takes on the role of James' high school rival and future NBA legend Carmelo Anthony.  The film boasts several other big names, including Stranger Things star Caleb McLaughlin and Wood Harris. Shooting Stars is set to be released on Peacock on June 2, 2023.  Benyam Kidane is a senior NBA editor for The Sporting News.