With the deadline to advance legislation to the next chamber fast approaching, the Illinois House of Representatives began passing dozens of bills last week. The House was the sole chamber in session in the Capitol with several Senate committee meetings held in Chicago. House committee meetings were also convened in Springfield. A review of the General Assembly website found the House approved 47 bills between Tuesday and Thursday that will go to the Senate. Here's a look at some of the highlights. In Illinois, cat owners can declaw their pets. With House Bill 1533, the state would join New York and Maryland as the only states banning the practice. Related:These 10 bills have, so far, survived the first half of the spring legislative session The bill from state Rep. Barbara Hernandez, D-Aurora, passed in the House on Thursday 67-38 with several Democrats opting to not cast a vote either for or against it. The Senate will now consider the legislation. Hernandez said declawing essentially "amputates" a cat up to their knuckle. Her bill calls for a gradually increasing rate of fines for those declaw - $500 for a first violation, $1,000 for the second and $2,500 for a third. The only exception would be for when declawing is needed for a medical procedure. House Republicans came down against the legislation in droves with claims that most veterinarians were also opposed. State Rep. Charlie Meier, R-Okawville, noted concerns about what happens when an older person is scratched. "I actually know a person who was scratched by their cat and for a month and a half had to fight to keep their hand," Meier said. "In some cases, this is very necessary. And there are pain medicines that these cats are given if this has to be done." The opposition to the bill was a surprise to state Rep. Kelly Cassidy, D-Chicago, who said she often volunteers at animal foster care centers. Hernandez added the reasons often for declawing cats are insufficient when considering the harm it provides to them. "There's a lot of cats that are declawed for no good reason either because they don't want to maintain their claws because they don't want to have furniture damaged," she said. "And then they send this cat outside defenseless." Lawmakers are considering a bill that would treat ride-share companies such as Uber and Lyft as “common carriers,” opening them up to the same level of liability as other forms of public transportation. House Bill 2231 passed on the House floor this week with a 73-36 vote. The bill now awaits consideration in the Senate. The common carrier status is defined as a “standard of care” under which passengers surrender their safety to certain modes of transportation. Currently in Illinois, this includes taxicabs, railways, and elevators, among others. “The reason for treating common carriers and holding common carriers to a higher standard of care is the lack of control that the rider has,” said Rep. Jennifer Gong-Gershowitz, a Democrat from Glenview and the bill’s lead sponsor. “There is no difference between the lack of control that a rider has the moment they step into an Uber or a Lyft and the lack of control that a rider has when they step into a taxicab or a train or an elevator.” The push for the bill is spurred by concerns for rider safety, particularly after an Illinois Supreme Court case that was settled out of court in January 2022. The case’s prior appellate court opinion affirmed ride-share companies’ exemption from the common carrier status after a Lyft driver allegedly raped a passenger in 2017. The alleged rape occurred in Chicago, when a woman identified as Jane Doe hailed a Lyft after a night out with her friends. The Lyft driver picked her up and, at some point during the ride, the woman fell asleep. The driver then drove to a secluded alley where he brandished a knife, zip-tied her hands and repeatedly sexually assaulted her, according to a court filing in the case that was settled in 2022. Despite the woman's argument that ride-share companies such as Lyft should be held to the same liability standard as established common carriers, the appellate court upheld the exemption because of the specificity of the statute. The case was settled out of court before the Supreme Court could rule on it. “Were we to hold that TNCs (transportation network companies) are subject to the same liability standards as common carriers, it would strip the relevant language of (the section of the statute) of all meaning,” Illinois First District Justice Bertina Lampkin wrote in the appellate court decision. Gong-Gershowitz argued that, if not for the law, Lyft may have been liable in this instance. “This exemption from the common carrier doctrine insulates TNC’s liability from the acts of their drivers when injuries to their consumers occur,” Gong-Gershowitz said in a committee hearing. “Other common carriers…do not enjoy this exemption and it has been used by ride-share companies to shield themselves from liability and auto crashes and cases where drivers have sexually assaulted their passengers.” The statute in question, part of the 2014 Transportation Network Providers Act, states TNCs and their drivers “are not common carriers, contract carriers or motor carriers, as defined by applicable State law, nor do they provide taxicab or for-hire vehicle service.” Opposition to the legislation centered on a concern that the common carrier classification may negatively impact business for ride-share companies. “One of the reasons these entities have been so successful has been costs aren’t as great as they are with other entities,” Rep. Patrick Windhorst, R-Metropolis, said during the House debate. “So by increasing regulations or burdens on business then we may drive them out or make them less successful.” In an interview, Gong-Gershowitz refuted that claim, asserting ride-share companies are not a cheaper option anymore. “When you look at surge pricing, when you look now at what riders pay to take an Uber or Lyft from one place or another, I would argue that the price comparison to other forms of transportation…being a less expensive option no longer is what’s born out in the market,” Gong-Gershowitz said. According to Crain's Chicago Business, the average fare for Ubers in Chicago increased by 80 percent and by 73 percent for Lyft since 2019. According to the same report, the average fare for taxis increased by 50 percent. Gong-Gershowitz added the cultural landscape around ride-share companies has shifted since their inception, eliminating the need to treat them differently from alternative modes of transportation. “I think almost everybody now, at all ages, has an app on their phone and knows how to use both ride-share apps for Uber and Lyft, as well as other things,” Gong-Gershowitz said. “So the dominance of technology in terms of the way we handle transportation, and many other things, has transformed the world that we live in over the last 10 years. And so the rationale that existed in 2015 just doesn’t hold up in today’s market.” House Bill 42: Legislation from state Rep. La Shawn Ford, D-Chicago, that would allow the Illinois Department of Public Health to issue autism awareness decals. Passed in the House unanimously. House Bill 1591: Cassidy's bill amends the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage Act by removing "archaic" language pertaining to a clause voiding an out-of-state couple marrying in Illinois that does not intend to stay in the state. Passed 80-23 on Thursday. House Bill 2067: Sponsored by state Rep. Maurice West, D-Rockford, this bill would permit incarcerated people in the Illinois Department of Corrections and Department of Juvenile Justice to request a facility transfer every six months. Current law allows for a request after three years. Passed in a vote of 70 to 39. The bills will head to the Senate chamber, where they will face committee and could see potential amendments. By the end of the month, both chambers will have advanced nearly all of their bills that will become the legislative focus for the remainder of the spring session. The House has until Friday to move bills past third reading and onto the Senate. March 31 is the third reading deadline for the Senate. This deadline, however, can be avoided in a sense by adding amendatory language to a separate, shell bill that passed one chamber. Senate Democrats deployed this tactic most notably during the veto session with House Bill 5471, becoming the Protect Illinois Communities Act - which banned the sale, manufacture and use of assault-style weapons but is now subject to several state and federal lawsuits. Capitol News Illinois' Nika Schonoover contributed to this report.  Contact Patrick Keck: 312-549-9340, pkeck@gannett.com, twitter.com/@pkeckreporter. This article originally appeared on State Journal-Register: Illinois House begins advancing bills to Senate as deadline looms New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.