Trending Now:  ›   ›  How Much Does the Earth Cost? Tagged   Updated: September 21, 2023 by Steve McGarvey |  Leave a comment  Have you ever wondered how much would it cost to buy the world? As humans, we often take Earth’s resources for granted, but astrophysicists stopped to consider the actual cost of our world. So, what if we told you Earth is valued at $5,000,000,000,000,000? In other words, the Earth costs five quadrillion dollars. That’s a massive number, and you might be wondering where it originated. Let’s explore the true cost of Earth, considering its natural resources, the impact of human activities, and the importance of sustainable practices. Back in 2009, NASA launched the Kepler spacecraft from Cape Canaveral to begin its three-and-a-half-year planet-hunting mission. The main goal was to find Earth-like planets. Greg Laughlin was an assistant astronomy and astrophysics professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, at the time, and is now an astronomy professor at Yale. And he was “completely invigorated” by the mission. So, he did what any brilliant space geek does (as a family of engineers and NASA alumni, we use the term “geek” with love!) and calculated the costs of terrestrial planets and exoplanets. Next, he shared his formula on his blog. And then, in a somewhat tongue-in-cheek gesture, he offered a one-of-five limited edition Oklo baseball cap to the first person or team discovering a terrestrial exoplanet, valued over one million USD, using his formula. Of course, mainstream media didn’t take long to pick up his blog post and share his thoughts about how much the Earth costs. Using his own formula, Laughlin valued Earth’s cost at $5 quadrillion, approximately one hundred times the Earth’s GDP at the time. Using Laughlin’s formula to determine the cost of exoplanets found by the Kepler mission, the astrophysicist took into account a newly-found planet’s primary star (or the Sun) and its apparent visual magnitude. As a result, he determined that Kepler’s highest-value planetary finds could have around 30 million dollar valuations. ©Negro Elkha/Shutterstock.com He also accounted for a planet’s habitability in the equation. And those with a lower potential for life got lower marks. Another estimation had the spacecraft finding approximately 100 planets during its 600 million USD mission. So, those numbers factor into his equation, as well. Applying his math to Mars gave Laughlin a valuation of $13,988, which he said was mainly because of the Sun’s apparent magnitude. But that still made it a hundred times more valuable than the highest-valued extrasolar planet in 2009. Gliese 581c earned a tiny value of only $158.32. Of course, there are other ways of estimating how much the Earth costs beyond a dollar value. Earth is rich in valuable resources like minerals, fossil fuels, and forests. These resources provide us with essentials like metals for building, energy for power, and timber for construction. So, the mere cost of felled trees, for example, doesn’t suggest the potential valuation of wood used in homes, buildings, furniture, and decking. However, sustainable management of these resources is essential to maintaining their value and ensuring their availability for future generations. Another exciting thing to consider is the environmental and cultural valuations of how much the Earth costs. In Stuart L. Pimm’s article, The Value of Everything, he discusses the differences between an economist’s view and an ecologist’s. For example, he compares the whaling of yesteryear, when fishermen went out with harpoons, to today’s whaling. He says today’s boats go out with loads of camera-laden tourists rather than harpoons to capture the whales digitally or on film. And, as Pimm says, the cultural value of whales far exceeds the price of their meat or oils. ©petrmalinak/Shutterstock.com Pimm surmised that the price of boat tickets alone outweighed the sale price of a whale’s meat and oils. But, then, you must consider the whale’s environmental impact on its surroundings. For example, whales help maintain the abundance of other marine life, some of which may include commercially valuable fisheries. Looking at how climate change or polluted waters might impact oceans and whales helps humans see where our activities could alter environmental and cultural valuations, thus affecting how much the Earth costs. Adopting more sustainable practices helps mitigate the costs associated with Earth’s resources. This means using resources responsibly, reducing waste, and embracing renewable energy sources. In addition, conservation efforts, such as recycling, reusing, and reducing our consumption, can significantly affect environmental and cultural valuations. According to astrophysicist and astronomer Greg Laughlin, the Earth cost five quadrillion USD. It’s an interesting take on the monetary value of our home planet. However, ecologists say Earth’s actual cost goes beyond a dollar amount to include the environmental and cultural valuations. Ecologists believe that we can contribute to a stronger planet for future generations by adopting sustainable practices, advocating for environmental protection, and spreading awareness. The image featured at the top of this post is ©solarseven/Shutterstock.com. What is a world price? The world price of a service or good is how much it costs in a country other than your own. For example, in international trade, countries export goods having a lower local price than their higher shipped world price. By the same token, countries import goods when the world price is lower than the local cost. How much does it cost to name or buy a star? Several different star registry companies exist with differing fee structures. But you can name a star for $20 to $150. What is the highest-priced item in the world? The International Space Station costs around $150 billion to design and build. And now it costs about $3.1 billion annually for operations. What is the Diamond Planet worth? The Diamond Planet is formally named 55 Cancri e and is not made only of diamonds. But it has a potential worth of $26.9 nonillion. That equals $26.9 with 30 zeros. However, if the diamonds were harvested, we’d have a glutted market, bringing the price down. How much are humans worth? Economists on NPR’s Planet Money say a single human life is worth about $10 million. And that’s because there are cost-benefit tests for federal safety regulations over $100 million annually. So, in order to do a cost analysis, economists had to identify human worth in dollars. Tagged As a Process Engineer in the Semiconductor manufacturing industry, I specialized in Critical Dimension Scanning Electron Microscopes and Photolithography. As a Defect Metrology Application Engineer, I specialized in technical marketing and client-facing support in relation to dark field non-patterned wafer surface scanning inspection systems, dark field patterned wafer inspection, defect review Scanning electron microscopes, bright field patterned wafer defect inspection and electron beam defect metrology. These days I'm writing and traveling the world. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *    Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.     Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Related Articles  Updated: August 3, 2023 by Drew Baker   Key Points
In July 2022, President Joe Biden revealed the first images from the James Webb Space Telescope. Like the awe-inspiring […]   Updated: August 3, 2023 by Drew Baker   Key Points
In 2017, NASA announced the Artemis Program, a mission to send astronauts back to the moon. The announcement was […]   Updated: October 12, 2023 by Renée Christian   Environmental technology companies are at the forefront of solving some of the world’s most pressing problems, including pollution, global warming, […]  Tagged  Updated: April 16, 2024 by Ben Skinner   Key Points
Satellites are remarkable pieces of technology that utilize planetary gravitational fields to move around a planet or another location […]   Updated: August 14, 2023 by Sarah Linn   A blockchain is a distributed database or ledger in sync over a network of computers. Or, you can call it […]   Updated: April 16, 2024 by Brian Steven   Before we discuss the things Elon Musk has invented, we must first understand that innovation is an iterative practice requiring […]  Tagged  Updated: April 16, 2024 by Denis Muroki   Key Points
Cobalt is a hard, lustrous, steel-gray, ferromagnetic metallic element that does not exist on its own on Earth. The […]  Tagged  Updated: August 1, 2023 by Rebecca Bales   Key Points
Tesla is one of the biggest names in the world. It is widely known for being one of the […]   Updated: April 16, 2024 by Denis Muroki   In the past five years, few billionaires have attracted as much public attention as Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos. Their […]  Tagged  Updated: August 1, 2023 by Abby   Key Points:
Who is Sergey Brin?
Sergey Brin is an American entrepreneur and computer scientist who, together with Larry Page, created Google, […]   Updated: August 10, 2023 by Renée Christian   Key Points
Discover profiles of the 12 largest wind energy companies in the world and what they do in the renewable […]   Updated: August 11, 2023 by Nate Williams   Key Points
Larry Page, One of Google’s Co-founders, has made quite a remarkable living as a business magnate, a computer scientist, […]  Tagged  Updated: August 30, 2023 by Nate Williams   Key Points:
Each new day brings a new story about a man named Elon Musk. From his gargantuan net worth to […]   Updated: July 31, 2023 by Rhian Hunt   Key Points
Weapon manufacturing is a big business. As weapons systems get more complex, companies with the capability to produce them […]   Updated: July 26, 2023 by Rebecca Bales   Man-Computer Symbiosis
Key Points
J. C. R. Licklider
IRE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics,
volume HFE-1, pages 4-11, March 1960
Summary
Man-computer symbiosis is an […]  Popular Articles What is Richard Dawkins’ IQ? Is He the Smartest Person Ever? 9 months ago The 10 Oldest Bibles Known to Man 6 months ago 25 One-Hit Wonders and Where They Are Now 4 weeks ago Exploring history's stories and how they shape us. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. Learn more about us & read our affiliate disclosure.