Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Check out our new Collection featuring articles on: subsurface storage technologies; extractable resources, mining and impacts; and geothermal energy.
 Mine tailings are voluminous and often toxic wastes, whose management is a global safety and sustainability challenge. This Review summarizes the major tailings storage facility disasters and impacts, emphasizing the urgent need for risk reduction approaches for management and policy. The Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) exerts strong control on the Indo-Pacific climate. This Review outlines twenty-first-century changes in the IOD, noting robust increases in eastern pole sea surface temperature variability, more frequent strong and early positive IOD events, and less frequent moderate positive IOD events. Engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) have numerous environmental applications, such as in water treatment and reuse. This Review explores the trade-offs between the risks and benefits of environmental ENMs, and highlights that the environmental and health risks of ENMs are relatively low when used responsibly. The future of the land carbon sink depends on the temperature response of ecosystem respiration. This Review explores observational and experimental evidence for a unimodal temperature response of respiration and the implications for carbon sequestration predictions. Degradation and loss of blue carbon ecosystems contributes to climate change, weakens coastal protection and threatens biodiversity. This Perspective outlines the actions required to achieve goals to restore and protect these ecosystems. To explore career opportunities outside of academia, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment interviewed Tom Pickerell about their career path from PhD student to Global Director of the Ocean Program at the World Resources Institute (WRI). Geosciences are one of the least gender-diverse fields, with women representing ~33% and ~39% of those employed in the USA and UK, respectively. Institutionalized and incentivized culturally responsive mentorship through establishment of career investors offers an accelerated path toward transforming geoscience culture and leadership. Mario Casado Díez explains how networks of smart photometers can be used to monitor light pollution in the night sky. To explore career opportunities outside of academia, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment interviewed Graeme Poole about their career path from postdoctoral researcher to Planetary Protection Officer at Airbus Defence and Space. The switch to a low-carbon economy is heavily reliant on mining, geothermal energy and geological storage. Subsurface geoscientists are critically needed to responsibly source, manage and refine these operations while minimizing environmental and social impacts. Rahul Dey describes how high-resolution digital imaging of ice core layers can be used to infer paleoclimatic changes. 
        Top headline image:  Opla/Getty Images
     
        Issue cover: Image credit: Amith Nag Photography/Getty images. Cover design: Carl Conway
     

                    Nature Reviews Earth & Environment (Nat Rev Earth Environ)
                

ISSN 2662-138X (online)
    
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited