A driver lost control and crashed into a Philadelphia police station across the street from the site where another car ran into a cell phone store earlier in the week, news reports said. The crash happened just after 1 a.m. Friday at the 35th police district headquarters on the 5900 block of North Broad Street, near West Champlost Avenue, in the Ogontz section of the city. Authorities reported the 25-year-old driver of a Mitsubishi hit an unoccupied police vehicle and the steps to the police station. Fortunately, no injuries were reported, and no arrests were made, according to 6ABC. The investigation is now active and ongoing with the Crash Investigation Division. If you can recall, earlier this week on Tuesday a driver went through a T-Mobile store across the street from the 35th district station during a police chase where the driver was speeding. The vehicle then crashed into a T-Mobile store, sending glass and metal flying. The suspect got away but after a pursuit, police eventually nabbed him and took him into custody. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices