A new mobile medical team is partnering with Upstate organizations to break barriers in affordable health care. A new mobile medical team is partnering with Upstate organizations to break barriers in affordable health care. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A new mobile medical team is partnering with Upstate organizations to break barriers in affordable health care. A new mobile health unit is working to break down barriers to affordable and quality health care in underserved communities. New Horizon Family Health Services (NHFHS) has launched a new Mobile Medical Team that will bring health care to more people who need it. The 35-foot mobile unit features two exam rooms and is staffed with a medical provider and support staff.  NHFHS says the same services you would find in a doctor's office will be offered through the Mobile Medical Team. “We have the ability to do primary medical care, treatment for minor illnesses, management of chronic conditions, all kinds of things," Rachel Amaral, program coordinator for the NHFHS Mobile Medical Team, said. "We can do labs [and] immunizations.” The Mobile Medical Team is partnering with several organizations across the Upstate to bring health care right to the people who need it the most.  “Sometimes they don’t have access to the doctor’s office, so just taking away that barrier to care and bringing it directly to them," Amaral said. One of those organizations is A Child's Haven, which provides child care and therapy to preschool-aged children and their caregivers. “We look like a child care. We act like a child care. We are a child care, but we’re also therapy for the children and their caregivers," Tanya Camunas, executive director and CEO of A Child's Haven, said.  She says preventative health is a priority for the children they serve and their caregivers.  “We know that a lot of the outcomes — poor outcomes [in] education [and] health that we see currently for our children and our youth in South Carolina is because of a lack of preventative health care," she said. Camunas says sometimes, the lack of health care is because of a lack of access. “Our families, they have a lot of barriers," she said. "One of the main things is transportation [and] poverty. They cannot get to a doctor to get their primary and preventative care.”  But improving access, and ultimately outcomes, in health and education is something that can't be done alone. That's why Camunas says partnerships like the one with NHFHS are so important.  “What that means is we’re able to serve more underserved families and more underserved counties, and that alignment is great," she said. "It’s just more powerful, and we're going to be more effective in helping to heal families.” The NHFHS Mobile Medical Team is also partnering with The Phoenix Center, Serenity Village and SHARE Head Start.  The organization says the Mobile Medical Team will be making its rounds in October.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.