


Travel Daily - Informing, connecting and developing the world’s travel industry professionals.

 Travel professionals and policymakers from across the globe will explore how the tourism sector is ‘Working Towards Net Zero’ at the 30th edition of Arabian Travel Market (ATM), which will take place at Dubai World Trade Centre (DWTC) from Monday 1 to Thursday 4 May 2023. The four-day event will feature over 150 speakers across 63 sessions, as policymakers and industry figures from around the world outline how they are working to drive decarbonisation within the sector. Ministers from the UAE, Bahrain, Oman, Jordan, Jamaica and Spain will join a host of senior figures from the private sector to showcase sustainable innovations, share knowledge and best practice, and explore opportunities and challenges along the road to net zero. Exhibitor participation in ATM 2023 will be 27% higher than last year, with growth across all show sectors. These include regional upticks for the Middle East (15.1% larger), Europe (30.9% larger), Asia (18.6% larger) and Africa (44.7% larger), as well as representation from Travel Tech and hotels, which has expanded by 57.9% and 23.5%, respectively. Danielle Curtis, Exhibition Director ME, Arabian Travel Market, said: “We intend to use the 30th edition of ATM to address one of the most significant challenges facing our sector, in line with our theme of ‘Working Towards Net Zero’. Increased participation in this year’s show not only reflects the seriousness with which global tourism professionals and policymakers are taking sustainability, but also rising demand for leisure and business travel across the Middle East and beyond.” ATM 2023 will host an array of regional policymakers, including HE Abdullah bin Touq Al Marri, UAE Minister of Economy; Hoor Al Khaja, Associate Vice President of International Operations at Dubai’s Department of Economy and Tourism (DET); Mahmood Khaleel Ahmed Al Sayed Alhashmi, Director General of Ajman Department of Tourism Development; Sujit Mohanty, Chief of UNDRR for Arab States; HE Fatima Al Sairafi, Bahrain’s Minister of Tourism; HE Salem bin Mohammed Al Mahrooqi, Oman’s Minister of Heritage and Tourism; and HE Nayef Al Fayez, Jordan’s Minister of Tourism and Antiquities. This year’s show will also feature a raft of private-sector leaders, including Sir Tim Clark KBE, President of Emirates; Kim Hardaker, VP Loyalty & Partnerships at Etihad; Brian Moran, Vice President – Global Sustainability Policy & Partnerships at Boeing; Mohamed Abdalla Al Zaabi, Group CEO of Miral; Jerry Inzerillo, CEO of Diriyah Gate; Robert Willock, Director MENA & Regional General Manager at The Economist Intelligence Corporate Network; Jochem-Jan Sleiffer, President, Middle East, Africa & Türkiye at Hilton; Haitham Mattar, Managing Director of IHG Hotels & Resorts; Sandeep Walia, Chief Operations Officer – Middle East at Marriott; Timothy James Cordon, Chief Operating Officer – Middle East & Africa at Radisson Hotel Group; Guy Hutchinson, President and CEO at Rotana Hotel Management Corporation; and others. Speakers will address a broad range of sector-critical issues throughout the four days of the event, exploring a variety of approaches, policies and technologies with the potential to shape an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable travel sector for future generations. “We are delighted that such a diverse selection of ministerial and industry speakers will be joining us for the 30th edition of ATM 2023,” said Curtis. “We look forward to learning how they are working to achieve net zero within their respective tourism markets, as our industry comes together to showcase the cutting-edge innovations and solutions that are driving the next generation of sustainable travel in the Middle East and beyond.” In total, ATM 2023 will feature more than 2,000 exhibitors and in excess of 34,000 attendees from over 150 countries. To mark the 30th edition, Curtis and her team will unveil a dedicated sustainability pledge that has been designed to reinforce RX’s commitment to the delivery of sustainable events. In addition to setting out the ATM’s journey towards net zero, this pledge will be supplemented by a new playbook that will offer participants a framework within which to mitigate their environmental impact before, during and after the show, while offering an operational guide for ATM as it works towards net zero by 2030. The conference will also feature a sustainability category at its annual exhibitor awards for the first time. Exhibiting organisations will be recognised based on the extent to which they have considered the environmental impact of their stands, as well as their efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. To supplement ATM 2023’s sustainable theme, the Global Stage will host a range of sessions focused on pivotal industry issues such as hotels and hospitality, aviation and transport, MICE and business travel, investment, responsible tourism, workforce diversification, and emerging sectors such as attractions, cruises, wellness and cultural tourism. This year’s show will also see the return of the ATM Travel Tech Stage, which will showcasing how cutting-edge innovations including artificial intelligence, the metaverse, cryptocurrency and big data are driving environmentally responsible tourism. ATM’s brand-new Sustainability Hub, meanwhile, will feature sessions dedicated to the latest sustainable travel trends and innovations. It will also offer the backdrop for the ATM 2023 Start-up Competition, an event hosted by conference partner Plug and Play that will see entrepreneurs go head-to-head in a ‘Sustainable Tech Pitch Battle’. Additional highlights will include the International Luxury Travel Market (ILTM) Arabia, as well as sessions from the International Tourism & Investment Conference (ITIC), the International Congress and Convention Association (ICCA) and the Global Business Travel Association (GBTA). Other highlights include sessions focused on the key markets of India, China and the GCC, as well as informal speed networking.    

				ATM 2024 sees 15% year-on-year growth, setting a new show record with more than…			

  

				TAT hosts key ME travel professionals and media at exclusive dinner during ATM			

  

				Aviation experts at ATM highlight the pivotal role of innovation as regional…			

  

				Rotana accelerates global footprint with planned entry into five new countries by…			

 ...there are many ways you can work with us to advertise your company and connect to your customers. Our team can help you design and create an advertising campaign We can also organize a real life or digital event for you and find thought leader speakers as well as industry leaders, who could be your potential partners, to join the event. We also run some awards programmes which give you an opportunity to be recognized for your achievements during the year and you can join this as a participant or a sponsor. Let us help you drive your business forward with a good partnership! Yes, contact me 
I want to download the media kit  
		Comments are closed.	 

						 POPULAR STORIES					
  

				Philippines named best diving destination at 2024 Diving…			

  

				Wonderfruit 2024 names Klook as official travel platform			

  

				Central Africans wanting to travel through Spain need to get…			

  

				‘Lufthansa Allegris’ takes off to Shanghai 			

 Welcome, Login to your account. 




Sign in with Google

  Powered by wp-glogin.com Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you. Welcome back, Log in to your account. Recover your password. SIGN UP FOR FREE Be part of our community of seasoned travel and hospitality industry professionals from all over the world.