Posty delivers once again, this time setting a swag of RIAA records and announcing a new greatest hits compilation. With three newly certified records, Post Malone establishes a new mark for the most RIAA Diamond-certified singles from any artist, with eight. More from Billboard 5 Highlights From the 2023 Latin American Music Awards Rehearsals 'I Lost a Lot of Confidence': Rita Ora on Emerging From a 'Low' Period With Renewed Strength, New Music -- And a Husband Giles Martin Talks Legacy of The Beatles: They 'Were Less Successful When I Was Growing Up' According to a statement issued today (April 20) from Universal Music Group, a member of RIAA, “Circles,” “Better Now,” and “I Fall Apart” cross the diamond threshold, which is awarded to those tracks which have accumulated 10 million certified units. Malone busts the previous record owned by Bruno Mars, with six. Also, the rapper and singer is tied for the highest platinum-certified single of all-time with “Sunflower,” featuring Swae Lee, which hits 17-times platinum. The inaugural Diamond milestone was awarded for Elton John’s “Something About The Way You Look Tonight / Candle In The Wind 1997″ and, to date, remains a relatively rare accomplishment. In February of this year, Halsey’s “Without Me” was recognized as the 100th single to receive Diamond status. Meanwhile, to celebrate his latest feats, Malone and Republic Records sets The Diamond Collection, a hits compilation carrying all his Diamond-certified singles, plus his latest release, the pop-leaning “Chemical.” “Chemical,” the first track from Malone’s forthcoming fifth studio album, is set to debut just outside the U.K. top 10, at No. 11, based on midweek data published by the Official Charts Company. “It’s so hard,” Post previously told Billboard of his musical journey in his February 2022 cover story. “You lose a lot of the artist nowadays because a lot of people have so many genius ideas, but you lose a lot of that through everything that might happen with the business side — and you lose a little bit of yourself. Every time you change your art and your way of thinking for someone else’s, that takes a little piece of yourself off every time. I feel like I’m trying to rebuild.” Posty’s fourth and most recent studio album Twelve Carat Toothache, arrived in 2022 and bowed at No. 2 on the Billboard 200. His previous collections Hollywood’s Bleeding (from 2019) and Beerbongs & Bentleys (2018) both went to No. 1 on the all-genres chart. Spanning nine tracks, The Diamond Collection is slated to drop April 21. See the tracklist below. The Diamond Collection Tracklisting: 1. White Iverson 2. Congratulations (feat. Quavo) 3. I Fall Apart 4. Rockstar (feat. 21 Savage) 5. Psycho (feat. Ty Dolla $ign) 6. Better Now 7. Sunflower (with Swae Lee) 8. Circles 9. Chemical  Best of Billboard H.E.R. & Chris Brown 'Come Through' to No. 1 on Adult R&B Airplay Chart Anne Wilson's 'I Still Believe in Christmas' Crowns Christian Airplay Chart Frank Sinatra, Eartha Kitt, Eagles & More: Here Are All 37 Holiday Songs on This Week's Hot 100 Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.