Aug. 24—DANVILLE — Nalox boxes have been popping up across the Valley, the latest installation took place in Canal Park on Wednesday. This is the fifth of the boxes installed by the United in Recovery program through the Susquehanna Valley United Way. Each is stocked with naloxone, also called Narcan, a medication used to reverse the effects of an opioid drug overdose. In addition to the one in Danville, there are currently three nalox boxes in Bloomsburg and one in Sunbury. The United Way also hopes to install one each in Milton, Mount Carmel and Shamokin, according to Andrea Bloskey, recovery engagement project coordinator with the United Way, who pitched the idea of installing a box in the borough to Danville Council in July. Danville Borough Police Chief Jonathan Swank said he thought the box would be good for the community. "We had very positive feedback about the idea," he said. "I think it'll be great." Since July, borough officials have collaborated to decide on the best location for the box to be placed. Swank said he played a large role in that conversation. "We decided on Canal Park because it is a centralized, well-lit area," he said. "In this spot, the box is very available to the public." The Danville community was very supportive of the box, Bloskey said, adding that such support is not something she always sees. "We have seen some pushback elsewhere, but I was very impressed here in Danville with the unanimous decision to install the box," she said. "People might not think this is a problem here, but it is. In Pennsylvania, opioid overdose is the number one cause of accidental deaths." The boxes are an addition to the United Way's United in Recovery efforts, as they already host monthly Narcan distributions. "The boxes offer anonymity which is important because of the stigma," Bloskey said. United Way will handle maintenance of the box and will keep it stocked, according to Bloskey. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.