Actress Hilary Swank revealed in October that she is expecting twins with her husband of four years Philip Schneider Hilary Swank has been showing off her growing baby bump during a gym workout ahead of giving birth to her twins.  The actress is getting closer to her delivery date after revealing back in October that she was pregnant with twins with her husband of four years Philip Schneider. And Hilary, 48, certainly hasn't been slowing down and she has kept up her workout routine. In a clip, the star wore a long sleeved grey top along with black leggings and white trainers. Hilary swept her brunette hair back into a slick bun and went makeup free. In the caption of the post, she wrote alongside two white heart emojis: "Me and Da Babes workin' out. Been a lonnnnnnng time since #FitnessFriday."  The Million Dollar Baby actress revealed that she was set to have twins when she appeared on Good Morning America in October.  She shared that twins run in both her and her husband's family. She said: "I'm gonna be a mom! And not just of one, but of two. It's so nice to be able to talk about it and share it."  Hilary recently revealed that her twins have a poignant due date. She said they share a very special link to her late father, Stephen Michael Swank, who sadly died in October 2021. Hilary had been her dad's sole carer for several years before his death, after he became the recipient of a lung transplant. The mother-to-be has now said her twins are due on April 16 which was her dad's birthday.  Before meeting Philip, Hilary was previously married to Chad Lowe from 1997 to 2007, and she had spoken to People about her family plans before splitting from the actor.  Back in 2006 she said she wanted children in the future. She said: "I definitely would like kids someday. That’s definitely something that I’ve always thought about as a very, very young girl." After their divorce the following year, Hilary moved on in different relationships with agent John Campisi and athlete Ruben Torres before she met Philip. The PS I Love You star began dating Philip in 2016. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox