Plunging necklines! Thigh-high slits! Cutouts! Hollywood’s A-listers always bring the heat to the Academy Awards. While winning a gold statue is the main goal at the Oscars, stars are also set on slaying the red carpet. Although some have played it safe, opting for ballgowns and high necklines, other celebs show up to the Oscars in the sexiest, most skin-baring dresses, suits and gowns the fashion world has to offer. For starters, Angelina Jolie commanded attention in her black strapless Atelier Versace gown at the 2012 show. The strapless getup was the talk of the night, and to add even more drama to the ensemble, the Maleficent star wore a bright red lip and stilettos. If there were an award for Best Supporting Appendage, her leg would have certainly gone home with a statue. Other notable moments in smoldering goodness: Cindy Crawford stunned in a plunging red Versace number in 1991. Halle Berry wowed in with the see-through bodice of her Elie Saab gown she wore to pick up the Best Actress award for Monster’s Ball in 2002. Back in 2005 the world became obsessed with Hilary Swank’s back muscles thanks to her rear-plunging navy Guy Laroche gown. Showing a bit of cleavage is also a mainstay trend on the red carpet. Between Jennifer Lopez’s Zuhair Murad dress in 2012 and Charlize Theron’s red Dior number in 2016, plunging necklines and a bit of sideboob have come to be expected on the red carpet. Then in 2020, Cardi B took the plunge with one of the deepest necklines we’ve ever seen. She wore a navy Dona Matashi gown that came to a close just above her belly button. More recently, a new skin-baring trend took center stage, with celebs rocking peek-a-boo cutouts along their torso at the 2022 Academy Awards. One of our favorite dresses that year was Halle Bailey’s exquisite number. The Little Mermaid actress dazzled Us in a sultry Roberto Cavalli piece. The sea foam green dress featured a one-shoulder bra top, cutouts revealing most of her torso, and a thigh-high slit. The Georgia native rocked soft glam and an updo to complete the look. Another standout look at the 94th Annual Oscars was Tracee Ellis Ross’s Carolina Herrera gown at the 2022 Oscars. The getup featured a daring strapless neckline, fitted bodice and flare at her thighs. The Black-ish star paired the vibrant frock with matching heels and added a bit of bling to the number with a diamond choker. So without further ado, grab something to fan yourself with and look through the all-time sexiest Oscars red carpet fashion moments from years past! New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.