Hailey Sumpter  GRINNELL — The Grinnell softball team answered each of Newton’s first three runs on Wednesday. But a Hailey Sumpter home run in the top of the sixth inning was unmatched and Sumpter finished off the Tigers in the circle during a 4-3 Little Hawkeye Conference road victory. The Cardinals and Tigers were tied at 3-all after five innings before Sumpter belted her third blast of the season. Both teams had eight hits and Newton won the game despite committing three errors. “We got a great win tonight,” Newton head softball coach Kory Leiker said. “It was a back-and-forth game and the girls were ready for the challenge.” Mack Sims  Newton (11-12 overall, 5-10 in the conference) led 1-0 after one inning and went in front 3-1 in the top of the fourth. Grinnell answered the Cardinals with two runs in the bottom of the fourth. Sumpter’s three homers and 19 RBIs are both tied for the team lead. Mack Sims had two hits, two runs and one steal. She now has a team-best 27 runs, 24 hits, 38 total bases and 10 steals. Kadance Ahn registered two hits and stole one base and Katelyn Lambert, Peyton Durr and Sloan Brodersen all had one hit. Haylie Ryan was hit by two pitches and scored one run. Sumpter also drew two walks. It was the second straight win for the Cardinals, while the Tigers (15-9, 6-9) dropped their third in a row. Kadance Ahn  Sumpter (9-9) pulled her pitching record to .500 for the season. She earned the win after allowing three earned runs on eight hits and one walk. She struck out eight in seven innings and 89 pitches. “This is the type of energy we need every time we step onto the field,” Leiker said. “Lambert had a great outfield assist at third base, and we got hits when we needed them.” The Cardinals and Tigers played a conference game for the final time as Grinnell leaves the LHC after this summer. Grinnell won the season series against the Cardinals as the Tigers won 8-4 and 11-8 in Newton earlier this season. Newton 6, Nevada 1 A slow start didn’t hinder Newton during a non-conference home game against Nevada on Tuesday. The Cardinals eventually cracked the scoreboard with a four-run fourth inning and cruised from there during a 6-1 triumph over the Cubs. “We were sluggish so we had to resort to the short game to get the offense going,” Leiker said. “We need to show up ready to compete each and every day no matter who the opponent is.” Newton added two runs in the fourth and out-hit Nevada 8-1. The Cubs (3-18) scored their run in the seventh. Lambert, Ahn and Sims each had two hits to lead the Cardinals. Sumpter tossed a one-hitter in the circle. Katelyn Lambert  Lambert doubled, scored two runs, walked once, collected one RBI and stole one base and Sims tripled and scored two runs. Ahn added one stolen base, Chloe Swank doubled, scored one run and had two RBIs and Sumpter finished with one hit and two RBIs and she was hit by one pitch. Ryan and Durr walked once, Mackenzie Cupples scored one run and Ryan added one RBI. Sumpter’s win in the circle included no earned runs, one hit, six strikeouts, one walk and one hit batter in seven innings. Cardinals fall twice to state-ranked Norwalk Newton registered seven hits and committed five errors between its two games against Class 4A No. 7 Norwalk on Monday. The Cardinals fell behind in both games and couldn’t recover during 5-2 and 11-0 defeats in LHC play. In the opener, Norwalk scored two runs in the first and led 3-0 through five innings. Both teams scored twice in the sixth, but the Warriors out-hit the Cardinals 9-5. Haylie Ryan  Ryan led the Cardinals with two hits, while Swank, Durr and Brodersen all had one hit. Durr doubled and had two RBIs, Sims and Jacy Linahon scored one run and Ahn was hit by a pitch. Sumpter took the loss in the circle after allowing five runs — three earned — on eight hits in seven innings. She struck out four, walked one and hit one batter. Nyah Hulbert led Norwalk (19-4, 12-2) with three hits, two runs and two steals at the plate and Zadie Wadle struck out 14 in seven innings in the circle to lead the Warriors. Norwalk led the nightcap 4-0 through six innings before scoring seven in the top of the seventh. The Warriors out-hit the Cardinals 13-2 and Newton committed two errors. Paige Benson doubled and Ryan had one hit to lead the offense. Paige Benson  Tallyn Seitz started in the circle and took the loss after allowing 11 earned runs on 10 hits in 6 1/3 innings. She struck out one, walked five and hit one batter. Ava Williams allowed one hit in her 2/3 of an inning. Kaylee Curry homered, had two hits, scored three runs and collected three RBIs to lead the Warrior offense and Lauren Black hit two doubles and registered four RBIs. Copyright © 2023 Newton Daily News. All rights reserved. Published in Newton, Iowa, USA, by Shaw Media. Copyright © 2023 Newton Daily News. All rights reserved. Published in Newton, Iowa, USA, by Shaw Media.