Computer expert Russell Scozzi, from Swansea, was last seen in May, 2002, but now police have found his remains in secluded woodland with his family saying they can finally "grieve for him properly" Human remains found in a secluded wood have been identified as a high flying computer expert who vanished more than 20 years ago. Police identified human remains found in a secluded woodland as that of Russell Scozzi, from West Cross, Swansea, who was last seen in May, 2002. The discovery was made in an area behind Waverley Drive, Mumbles, on April 6, and in a tribute, Mr Scozzi's sister said her family can now be "given the opportunity to grieve him properly”, reported WalesOnline. She said: “My heart goes out to Russell's children who have grown up without their father and never really knowing what happened to him. Hopefully now we, as a family, can lay him to rest and with the work of South Wales Police discover what happened to him. I dearly loved Russell. "He was my big brother who I always looked up to when I was growing up, and to lose him in this way has been devastating. Finally, we can be given the opportunity to grieve him properly.”  The last confirmed sighting of the computer expert in 2002 was at a Swansea bus station. He was 43 years old and a year earlier had, without reason, given up a high-salary IT job with a multi-national company.  Mr Scozzi was known to have travelled extensively to the likes of Bali and Australia and spoke both German and French fluently.  But it was considered unusual for him not to keep in regular touch with family and what concerned them most was that he made no attempts to contact his children, something that was completely out of character.  Detective Chief Inspector Matt Davies said: "Our investigation into the finding of Mr Scozzi’s remains is ongoing in order that we can establish the circumstances leading up to, and the cause of death.  “The local residents of Waverley Drive  supported officers throughout the course of our extensive and prolonged investigation of the scene and I wish to thank them for their support and patience.  “Following a thorough forensic examination, it’s been established that the remains are those of missing person Russell Scozzi who was last seen in May 2002. His family have been updated and are being supported by specially trained officers at this difficult time.” Get email updates with the day's biggest stories