AAPL, SSNLF, and HNHPF lead the 10 biggest technology companies list  Technology companies have become a dominant driver in recent years of economic growth, consumer tastes, and the financial markets. The biggest tech stocks as a group, for example, have dramatically outpaced the broader market in the past decade. That's because technology has reshaped how people communicate, consume information, shop, socialize, and work.
  Broadly speaking, companies in the technology sector engage in the research, development, and manufacture of technologically based goods and services. They create, design, and manufacture computers, mobile devices, and home appliances and provide products and services related to information technology.
  Below we look at the 10 biggest companies in the technology field, as measured by trailing 12-month (TTM) revenue. There are technology companies in many countries around the globe, but this list is limited to publicly-traded companies in the U.S. or Canada, either directly or through ADRs. Data is courtesy of YCharts.com; all figures are current as of Dec. 22, 2022.
 Some of the stocks below are only traded over-the-counter (OTC) in the U.S., not on exchanges. As a result, trading OTC stocks often carries higher trading costs than trading stocks on exchanges. This can lower or even outweigh potential returns.  Apple (AAPL) designs, manufactures and markets a broad range of consumer technology products. These include smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearable devices, home entertainment devices, and much more. Some of its most popular products include its iPhone smartphones and Mac computers. Apple also has dramatically expanded its sales from services. It operates digital content stores and recently launched several streaming services, including Apple+, a platform for on-demand entertainment content.
  Samsung Electronics competes with Apple and other major tech companies worldwide in key product areas. It's engaged in a broad range of industries, including consumer electronics, information technology, and communications. The South Korean company sells mobile phones, tablets, wearable devices, virtual reality products, TVs and home theaters, computers, printers, home appliances, and more. However, Samsung is best known for its popular line of Galaxy smartphones.
  Hon Hai Precision, also known as Foxconn, is a Taiwan-based multinational electronics manufacturer. The company produces electronics and electronic components for use in the information technology, communications, automotive equipment, automobile, precision molding, and consumer electronics industries. Foxconn is a key supplier in Apple's supply chain, manufacturing a significant proportion of its iPhones.
  Microsoft is a global developer and licensor of software, devices, solutions, and services. The company is well known for its Windows and Office Suite software but nets a growing share of its profit and revenue from cloud computing and its cloud platform, Azure. Microsoft also owns and operates LinkedIn, the popular social networking site for job seekers.
  Dell Technologies makes and sells hardware, information technology products, and services worldwide. The company offers desktop and laptop computers, traditional and next-generation storage solutions, and networking products. Dell also sells a cloud-native platform and cloud management solutions. Dell's best-known products are its personal computers.
  Sony is a Japanese technology company that designs and produces electronics products worldwide for consumer, professional, and industrial markets. The company sells a variety of products, including personal computers, mobile phones, video game consoles and software, and video cameras. It also produces and distributes recorded music and live-action and animated motion pictures. In addition, it makes and sells the PlayStation, a popular video game console.
  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing manufactures microchips and semiconductors used in cell phones, medical equipment, video game consoles, computer hardware, and much more. In 2022, TSM manufactured 12,698 products for 532 customers.
  Lenovo Group Ltd is a technology manufacturing company that creates personal computers, monitors, tablets, smartphones, and other devices designed to facilitate modern technological needs. The company serves a global market of more than 180 countries and has manufacturing sites in Argentina, Brazil, China, Germany, Hungary, India, Japan, Mexico, and the U.S.
  Intel is a premier global producer of computer chips and a provider of computing, networking, data storage, and communication solutions. The company offers platform products for the cloud, enterprise, and communication infrastructure markets. In addition, Intel provides flash memory, programmable semiconductors, and processors for notebooks, mobile devices, and desktop computers. The company is well known for its high-performance processors used in PCs worldwide by businesses and consumers.
  Panasonic is a Japan-based developer, manufacturer, and servicer of electronic products primarily for the consumer market. The company offers personal computers, tablets, projectors, and broadcast and professional AV systems. Panasonic also produces appliances such as air conditioners, TVs, refrigerators, and washing machines.
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "Over-The-Counter (OTC) Securities." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "Apple, Inc., Form 10-K For the Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2022," Pages 1-2. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. "Services and Products." Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. "About Hon Hai." Microsoft Investor Relations. "Segment Information." Dell Technologies. "Solutions for IT Infrastructure, Workforce, Industry and OEM." Dell Technologies. "IT Infrastructure and Workforce Technology." Sony Group Corporation. "Who Are We." Sony Group Corporation. "Businesses & Products." Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. "2022 Annual Report," PDF Page 95. Lenovo. "Who We Are." Intel Corporation. "About Intel." Panasonic Group. "Annual Report 2022," Page 59.