Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Tuesday February 07, 2023 , 2 min Read Bengaluru-based ﻿Mensa Brands﻿ has raised Rs 300 crore in debt from TradeCred, a Mumbai-based alternative debt platform.   Mensa Brands said, in a statement, that it plans to use the funds for brand acquisitions, product development, supply chain integration, and working capital investment.  "We are pioneering the path to an industry-first tech-led house of brands with our five breakout category leaders," said Ananth Narayanan, Founder and CEO of Mensa Brands. "With this additional capital, we will be able to double down on our growth ambition." Launched in May 2021, Mensa follows a 'house of brands' strategy through which it acquires direct-to-consumer brands. It has 25 brands across fashion, home, beauty and FMCG, including Dennis Lingo, Villain, Pebble, and MyFitness.   The Tiger Global-backed company﻿ reported a revenue of $41.2 million (Rs 310 crore) in FY22, in its first year of operations, while it posted a loss of $16.41 million (Rs 135 crore). For FY22, it spent $88.5 million (Rs 670 crore) in acquisitions.   "TradeCred is delighted to partner with Mensa Brands... known for encouraging ‘Made in India’ products to become global and enabling Indian MSMEs to reach the doorsteps of global customers," said Hardik Shah, TradeCred Founder.   TradeCred is an alternative debt platform founded in 2018. It has over Rs 2,200 crore of assets under management and more than 20,000 active users (as of February 2022).   (This story was updated with additional information on the company's earnings.) Edited by Swetha Kannan 1 2 Startups, Flexible working hours and ways to ensure that employees don't take advantage 3 Embracing AI-first: Raising the bar in customer service beyond legacy systems 4 IPO-bound Smartworks Coworking Spaces posts Rs 50 cr loss last fiscal on higher expenses 5 Honasa Consumer projects up to Rs 1,000 Cr ARR in 3-5 years across brands