Chef Ili Sulaiman guided the kids in making yummy dishes like D-I-Y Comfort Pizza with saba fish and tuna, as well as Tropical Fruit Smoothie Bowls. By Gowri Chitra
                            — 02 Feb 2023, 05:34 PM  
                            
                     Follow us on Instagram, TikTok, and Telegram for the latest stories and breaking news.﻿ This Spotlight is sponsored by Ayam Brand. Believing in the importance of healthy eating for everyone, Ayam Brand recently launched a community outreach programme titled Taste of Comfort, through which they hosted cooking workshops for kids from orphanages around Klang Valley Hosted by food entrepreneur and TV personality Chef Ili Sulaiman, 55 children from 11 orphanages were invited to attend a cooking workshop at TCH Foodworks, where they were taught all about how to whip up nutritious, easy-to-prepare, and delicious meals.The orphanages involved were Fungates Superflow Foundation, Precious Gem Home, Trinity Children Home, Yayasan Sunbeams Home, Rumah Charis, House of Joy, Rumah Bakti Al-Kausar, Rumah Shalom, Pusat Jagaan Anbe Sivam, Ti – Ratana, and Rumah Kebajikan Anbu Illam. Taste of Comfort gave underprivileged children the opportunity to learn all about healthy eating and how they can create nutritious dishes filled with comforting flavours Chef Ili guided the kids in making yummy dishes like D-I-Y Comfort Pizza with saba fish and tuna, as well as Tropical Fruit Smoothie Bowls. Using Ayam Brand's quality canned food that have no added preservatives, MSG, trans fat, and additives, the children will be able to easily replicate these recipes on their own.The children also got to play all kinds of interactive games, which were not only lots of fun, but also taught them important values such as teamwork. "Cooking is a skill that anyone can learn no matter your age. I'm honoured to partner with Ayam Brand and have the opportunity to educate children about healthy meals and inspire them to unlock their creativity when it comes to cooking. I believe this will be a skill that will follow them every day for the rest of their lives," shared Ili.﻿ To ensure that the kids will be able to enjoy healthy meals, Ayam Brand also donated two months worth of food products to the 11 participating orphanages, as well as an additional 35 orphanages that were unable to attend the event To enable them to continue exploring the art of cooking, the kids were encouraged to download the 130-Years of Homely Goodness e-recipe book from the Ayam Brand website. In there, they'll find tonnes of local recipes that will serve as inspiration to get creative in the kitchen with Ayam Brand's wide range of food products.One of the products that was included in the donation packages was Ayam Brand's Baked Beans, as it is a favourite amongst kids. Delicious on its own, as a side dish, or as an ingredient, these baked beans pack a nutritious punch —﻿ they're a high source of fibre for better gut health, and are also low in fat. The Taste of Comfort event was held as an extension of Ayam Brand's annual Community Care Campaign, in conjunction with the brand's 130th anniversary celebration With Taste of Comfort, Ayam Brand is marking their 15th consecutive year of giving back to society."Ayam Brand celebrated our 130 years milestone by offering Malaysians healthy meal options with our wide range of products, and we wanted to also ensure that we provided the underprivileged the same access to healthy food."We truly believe that healthy children and individuals are key to building a thriving society and an even stronger nation. Hence, this time we are empowering more kids with the knowledge of healthy eating, and equipping them with the lifelong skill of creating nutritious meals for themselves," shared A Clouet & Co. (KL) Marketing Manager, Teoh Wei Ling. "Children are the next generation of leaders who will play a crucial role in shaping the future of our country. As a brand that has been journeying with Malaysians from generation to generation for the past century, Ayam Brand aims to continue serving all Malaysians, including underprivileged children, to help them reach their full potential, starting with building healthy eating habits," she added.﻿ A household name in Malaysia, Ayam Brand is known for their wide range of quality canned food that are preservative-free and contain no added MSG From tuna, sardines, and mackerel to baked beans, coconut milk, and so much more, Ayam Brand products are yummy, nutritious, and certified halal. They are manufactured in state-of-the-art facilities that meet the highest international standards with worldwide-recognised certifications (HACCP, ISO 9001).Ayam Brand has even been ranked in the Top 10 of Malaysia's most chosen FMCG brands, according to Kantar Worldpanel's Asia Brand Footprint Study 2021.To find out more about the brand, their products, and their community outreach efforts, visit their website. Check out other foodie stories on SAYS: The YouTuber rated the Malaysian café a 10 out of 10! He devoured it in the blink of an eye. Tteokbokki for only RM3.40?! Got some cool brand news to share? Take a look at all of our Spotlight stories to date here.  Catch up on the latest brand buzz in Malaysia: You can whip 'em up in no time at all! The RM12 promo is available for a limited time only! Psst... you can get tickets at 20% off from now until 31 January! We'll send a list to your inbox, once a day.  Subscribe now!  
              Happy to have you on board! You are now subscribed to the SAYS newsletter!
             
              We're processing now, please wait...
             Live Radio 
    SAYS is Malaysia's social news company. Get highlights of hottest news and must-share stories every day.
   
    Owned by REV Media Group, a part of Media Prima Group
