Never Miss A Post: Subscribe To support the running costs of Moral Fibres, this post may contain affiliate links. This means Moral Fibres may earn a small commission, at no extra cost to readers, on items purchased through these links. Looking for the best vegan clothing brands? Here are 15 stylish and sustainable vegan and cruelty-free UK brands for men and women, proving that having a vegan-friendly wardrobe doesn’t mean you have to compromise on your sense of style. With more than a third of people in the UK interested in becoming vegan, the number of people adopting plant-based diets has soared in recent years. And with this rise in the number of people becoming vegan, many clothing brands are now following suit to adapt to changing preferences. The number of 100% vegan clothing brands and brands offering vegan-friendly clothing that is made without animal-based fabrics such as wool or leather is following a similar rise in popularity. The problem is that many vegan clothing ranges available from high street retailers are made of synthetic materials or conventionally grown cotton. These are harmful to the environment, and to human and animal life. This includes fabrics such as: Most of these fabrics are derived from non-renewable fossil fuels, such as oil, which contribute to climate change. Meanwhile, conventional cotton is grown using pesticides which are harmful to growers, pickers, local communities, and wildlife. BCI cotton can also be grown using pesticides.  The good news is that if you are looking to build a vegan wardrobe, then you no longer need to choose between animal rights, quality or sustainability. The increasing demand for sustainable and ethical vegan clothing has seen a plethora of brands step up and offer truly innovative and ethical options. But where to start? To help you out, here are 15 of our favourite vegan clothing brands for men and women that prioritise the use of sustainable fabrics and ethical manufacturing. I’ve categorised these by size range and by budget, to help you find the pieces that fit your preferences with ease. The price range key for this guide is:  £ = Under £50 | ££ = £50 – 100 | £££ = £100+ Use the quick links below to skip to information about each brand, or keep reading for the full post: Budget: £ Caters for: Men (sizes XS – XXL), women (UK sizes 8 – 24) and children (0 – 13 years) Fabrics used: Cotton Vegan Outfitters, is, as the name suggests, an entirely vegan clothing brand. Describing itself as the next generation of vegan apparel, Vegan Outfitters set out to create a brand that was 100% vegan, ethical and sustainable without compromising on style. And it has definitely achieved that goal. Catering for men, women and even kids, you’ll find casual clothes (think slogan print t-shirts, sweatshirts, jogging bottoms and hoodies) all made from vegan materials. These are made in ethical conditions and printed with eco-friendly water-based inks. Your order is then shipped to you in plastic-free packaging. What’s also to love is that your order gives back. Vegan Outfitters donates 10% of its profits to UK sanctuaries that are dedicated to rescuing farm animals from abuse and slaughter. Use the exclusive code MORAL5 at the checkout for 5% off full-priced items at Vegan Outfitters (can be used once per customer, and is not valid on Mystery Products). Budget: £ – ££ Caters for: Women (UK sizes 8 – 18) Fabrics used: Bamboo, organic cotton and Tencel. If you are looking for vegan yoga wear for women then try Asquith. This 100% vegan clothing brand produces stylish and ethically made yoga wear and loungewear in the finest quality organic cotton and bamboo fabrics.  Asquith designs its clothes so they are functional, versatile and timeless. This means that all of its clothes work effortlessly with the rest of your everyday wardrobe. Whether it’s working from home or relaxing at the weekend, you’ll want to wear these soft and comfortable vegan clothes all the time! Each order ships in plastic-free packaging, for an even smaller impact on the planet. Budget: ££ – £££ Caters for: Men (sizes XS – XL) and women (UK sizes 6 – 18) Fabrics used: Organic cotton, Tencel, Lyocell, and other sustainable fabrics. Ninety Percent is a London-based sustainable and vegan clothing brand, that produces luxury ethical basics, such as organic cotton hoodies, and stylish dresses and tops that are designed for longevity. These are all crafted from sustainable vegan materials such as Tencel. Ninety Percent’s packaging is 100% plastic-free. Your order is sent in mailers made from 100% recycled cardboard and biodegradable cornstarch garment bags. What’s also to love is that Ninety Percent has created a pioneering profit-sharing business model. This approach sees Ninety Percent sharing 90% of its profits between those who make its clothes and five charitable causes – including War Child UK, Wild Aid, and Big Life. Hence the name Ninety Percent. In terms of manufacturing, all of Ninety Percent’s clothing is made in Bangladesh. Whilst at first glance that might not sound so ethical, its factory is an industry-leading garment manufacturing facility that puts people, the planet and products first. From fair wages, health insurance and childcare, to a free hot lunch every day, Ninety Percent is dedicated to setting the very best standard in fashion. Sign up for the Ninety Percent newsletter and get 20% off your first order. Budget: £ Caters for: Women (UK sizes 6 – 20) Fabrics used: Cotton Owned by the same company as Vegan Outfitters, Kind Clothing makes vegan-friendly leisure and casual wear for women. All of Kind Clothing’s apparel is ethically made in GOTS-certified and Fair Wear Foundation-approved facilities. This means that garment professionals are guaranteed safe and dignified working conditions, a fair living wage and a legally binding contract.  To help stop waste from the fashion industry, every Kind Clothing item is printed to order. Kind Clothing needs 3 to 5 days to freshly print your item, then it will arrive at your door in plastic-free packaging. To give back, Kind Clothing plants a tree for every sale. Meanwhile, some of its animal-themed t-shirts include a donation to wildlife charities.  Budget: ££ Caters for: Men (sizes S – XXL) and Women (UK sizes 6 – 18) Fabrics used: Bamboo, cotton, and recycled polyester BAM isn’t a wholly vegan clothing brand but is worth mentioning here as the vast majority of BAM’s range of sustainable activewear is made without animal products. Bamboo is a key fabric (hence the brand name) used in most of its activewear, as is cotton. However, its knitwear collection includes wool, so steer clear of that section. As well as selling seriously soft and comfortable activewear, BAM takes sustainability seriously. It has set ambitious goals that it wants to achieve by 2030 across every element of its supply chain. This includes zero waste to landfill, zero pollution, and zero water waste.  BAM also values transparency and shares information about both its factories and supply chain. The brand is also a member of the Fair Wear Foundation. This independent third-party assessor ensures that workers’ rights are protected and ensure that the factories used are safe and empowering places to work.  Get 10% off your first order when you sign up for the BAM newsletter. Budget: ££ Caters for: men (size S – XL) and women (UK sizes 8 – 16) Fabrics used: organic cotton, recycled PET, Tencel, linen, bamboo, and hemp. Komodo – available at Immaculate Vegan – sells ethically sourced, organic, and natural fibre fashion that’s every bit as stylish as ethical.  One of the first ethical clothing brands – running since 1988 – the majority of Komodo’s products are vegan and cruelty-free. Komodo uses premium quality organic, natural, and eco-friendly fibres to make its clothes. The brand is also both GOTS-certified and a member of the Soil Association. These certifications mean Komodo’s cotton is certified organic. What’s more, Komodo no longer uses single-use plastic in its supply chain. And as a member of 1% for the Planet, Komodo donates to the Sumatran Orangutan Society. This charity is restoring natural rainforests and ecosystems, through the purchase and repurposing of palm oil plantations. Get 10% off your first order when you sign up for the Immaculate Vegan newsletter. Budget: £ – £££ Caters for: Men and women (sizes XXS – XXL) Fabrics used: Tencel, recycled polyester, organic cotton, and hemp TenTree is a Canadian ethical clothing company, available in the UK via Wildbounds, that makes stylish ethically and sustainably produced outdoor and casual wear. TenTree also plants 10 trees for every item you purchase – hence the name! Trees are planted in different countries – mainly Madagascar and Indonesia. This is carried out in partnership with various reforestation charities, such as Trees for the Future, to ensure meaningful and sustainable replanting.  Of course, it’s not just about the trees (although it’s a good place to start). As a certified B-Corp, every TenTree item is ethically made using only sustainable fabrics. Do note that not every product is vegan. A small number of products are made from wool – so do check before purchasing. Budget: £ Caters for: Gender neutral (UK sizes XS – 3XL / 6 – 24) Fabrics used: Cotton The Spark Company sells ethically made and 100% vegan-friendly feminist and LGBTQ+ apparel. It guarantees it does not use sweatshops or child labour ever.  The Spark Company also donate part of its profits to charities close to its heart. This includes Bloody Good Period, which fights for menstrual equality, akt, an LGBTQ+ youth homelessness charity and other charities close to The Spark Company’s mission. The Spark Company aim to work sustainably and to keep finding more ways to do so. It operates a zero-waste policy – printing its apparel to order – using vegan dyes, and opting for plastic-free packaging. The Spark Company is owned by Look Good, Do Good – the same company as Vegan Outfitters and Kind Clothing. I looked into Look Good, Do Good a little more, to find out more. What I found was reassuring. Look Good, Do Good is an investment company that believes in equality, female empowerment, cruelty-free products, and giving back to inspiring causes. It only invests in ethical brands.  Budget: £ – ££ Caters for: Women (UK sizes 8 – 26) Fabrics used: Organic cotton, BCI cotton, Ecovero, and recycled polyester If you love vintage-inspired clothing, then head to Joanie Clothing. This 100% vegan and size-inclusive brand takes the best bits of vintage clothing and reimagines them for the modern, everyday wardrobe. Guided by the principle of buying less but buying better, Joanie has championed slow fashion from the outset by making unique styles that don’t just follow the latest trends and that stand the test of time. You can find everything you need for your timeless wardrobe – from dresses and tops to bottoms, swimwear and more. All of Joanie’s pieces are ethically made by factories around the world, using environmentally friendly fabrics. Plus Joanie continually making improvements within its supply chain, and is committed to reducing waste wherever possible. Get 10% off your first order when you sign up for the Joanie newsletter. Budget: ££ – £££ Caters for: Men and women (sizes XXS to 4XL) Fabrics used: Organic cotton, recycled cotton, recycled polyester, recycled nylon and other sustainable materials. Patagonia makes responsibly-made outdoor clothing designed to last and be repairable. Its website advises on how to repair all Patagonia items, which is very useful. And for any clothing that can’t be repaired then you can drop it off at a Patagonia store for recycling or repurposing.  Patagonia uses many sustainable, recycled, and vegan-friendly materials in its collection. This includes cotton, recycled polyester, and aNetPlus®, a material made entirely from recycled fishing nets. However, Patagonia isn’t an entirely vegan brand, as it does use recycled down feathers and wool and recycled wool in some garments. Patagonia is available in the UK via Alpinetrek Get £5 off your first order when you sign up for the Alpinetrek mailing list. Budget: £ – £££ Caters for: Men (sizes XS – 3XL) and Women (UK sizes 6 – 20) Fabrics used: Organic cotton, hemp and other sustainable fabrics. Thought (available at John Lewis) isn’t an entirely vegan-friendly brand, but with 164 items of women’s vegan clothing available at the time of writing, it’s well worth more than a passing mention.  Thought’s approach to ethical fashion is one to be commended. The brand uses only certified natural and recycled fibres and fabrics and makes its clothes ethically.  Thought also makes its clothes from start to finish in the same country. This prevents them from being shipped from country to country, for example, to add buttons or zips, which is a common practice within the fashion industry.  Budget: ££ – £££ Caters for: Men (sizes XS – XXL) and Women (UK sizes 4 – 14) Fabrics used: Organic cotton WAWWA is a sustainable clothing brand based in Manchester, making ethical and vegan-friendly clothing for men and women. Designing everyday wardrobe staples that are built to last, these are made with cruelty-free, earth-friendly and durable fabrics. The majority of WAWWA’s collection is now made in-house, in its independent factory in Manchester. Here, garment professionals are paid a real living wage. Having its own factory also allows WAWWA to offer a unique customisation service. Here, you can have trousers and t-shirts tailor-made to your measurements, creating a bespoke perfect fit. Sign up for the WAWWA newsletter and get 15% off your first order. Budget: ££ Caters for: Women (UK sizes 8 – 14) Fabrics used: ECONYL® recycled nylon RubyMoon is a female-led social enterprise, which transforms ocean waste into vegan-friendly activewear and swimwear for women.  RubyMoon also donates 100% of its profit to micro-loans for women entrepreneurs globally. So far, Ruby Moon has helped over 1200 women and their families to find a route out of poverty. This PETA-Approved vegan brand has a transparent supply chain, and all of its products are manufactured ethically and safely in Spain.  The vegan fabric used in all of RubyMoon’s garments is made with ECONYL® yarn. This is a 100% regenerated nylon fibre made from discarded nylon waste, such as fishing nets, fabric scraps, carpet flooring and industrial plastic.  This results in a high-quality, durable material that’s soft and comfortable to wear. Budget: £££ Caters for: Women (W25 / L30 – W33 / L32) Fabrics used: Organic cotton and recycled denim MUD Jeans – available in the UK at Content – makes 100% vegan jeans from organic cotton and recycled denim. This helps to avoid waste and cuts down on water and CO2 use.  At the moment, its jeans contain 40% recycled denim. However, keep an eye out as MUD aim to launch the first jeans made from 100% post-consumer recycled denim.  Rather than washing the jeans to create the wash, MUD uses innovative ozone and laser processes. This cleverly reduces the amount of water used to manufacture a pair of jeans by up to 75%. This step also helps to reduce water pollution. What’s also to love about MUD, is that jeans labels are printed without the use of leather. This means that MUD’s entire jeans range is cruelty-free and suitable for vegans. What’s more, MUD takes back your old jeans once you are done. Here MUD will resell them if they are in good condition. If not, MUD will recycle them by blending them with organic cotton to create new jeans for a more circular approach to denim. Check out my guide to ethical jeans, for more ethical denim recommendations. As always, I will be sure to update this guide as and when I come across more stylish vegan clothing brands. Do check back later to see what brands I’ve found. Looking for more vegan wardrobe inspiration? I’ve got lots!  Found this post useful? Please consider buying me a virtual coffee to help support the site’s running costs. Join The Mailing List Be part of the community and get all the latest articles, news and tips on green living from Moral Fibres straight to your inbox, once a month, free of charge. Wendy Graham is a sustainability expert and the founder of Moral Fibres, where's she's written hundreds of articles on since starting the site in 2013. She's dedicated to bringing you sustainability advice you can trust. Wendy holds a BSc (Hons) in Environmental Geography and an MSc (with Distinction) in Environmental Sustainability - specialising in environmental education. As well as this, Wendy brings 17 years of professional experience working in the sustainability sector to the blog. All articles on Moral Fibres are written by humans, for humans. We enjoy sharing our expertise, advice and lived experiences to help inspire action on climate change. After all, AI isn’t going to solve the climate crisis - people are. We want to keep our impact on the planet as low as possible. As such, the Moral Fibres workspace is powered by renewable energy, and Moral Fibres also funds renewable energy and tree-planting projects every month.  © 2024 Moral Fibres - UK Eco Blog