SOMERSWORTH — Terrill Covey sees his job working with teenage students as important and focused on skills they need. "I love working with students and helping them with those employability skills, independent living skills and all the other things that we adults say, 'Why didn't I learn that in high school?'" Covey said. Covey is in his 14th year with Strafford Learning Center, serving as extended learning opportunities coordinator in the Charles Ott Academy's Transition Support Center since 2014. Covey is being recognized for his work, receiving the Extended Learning Opportunities Coordinator of the Year award from the New Hampshire Excellence in Education Awards. "I also love connecting students with their communities in a meaningful way and showing community/business partners the value in working with high school students," Covey added. "His dedication and drive to support students has been evident to those who have worked with him for years," said Helen Rist, executive director of the Strafford Learning Center. "We are so proud to see him recognized by the New Hampshire Excellence in Education Awards." Extended learning opportunities focus on students obtaining experiences in a variety of settings to learn and meet academic goals. Rist said these experiences can be in the form of internships, mentorships, independent studies or apprenticeships that can be credit bearing towards graduation. Covey said most of his students are there because public school hasn't worked for them for one reason or another. "Most of these kids (high school age) have been given up on and/or have given up on themselves, but when they see that there are pathways to the careers they are interested in even though school has been a struggle for them, it often reignites their engagement in learning, which is the best thing about extended learning opportunities," he said. "I work in the Transition Support Center of Strafford Learning Center, which is a special education support service," Covey said. "We are connected with Charles Ott Academy, which is an alternative school program. Students work with me for three hours a day on our 'five buckets,' which are academic readiness, work readiness, wellness, independent living and self-determination." Covey said one of the primary tenets of the Transition Support Center is working with extended learning opportunities, explaining they allow students to study content areas through a career of interest to them. "Students should have an opportunity for job shadows and/or internships within the career field, and those opportunities help guide the student's learning," he said. "I take a lot of pride in the fact that during the spring of 2022, I helped 100% of my students either get hired at a job, get placed in an internship, or both! Last school year two of my students were actually hired at placements where they started as interns." Editor's note: In addition to his outstanding work in education, Covey is a freelance sports writer for Seacoast Media Group. ​​​​ This article originally appeared on Fosters Daily Democrat: Terrill Covey receives NH Excellence in Education New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.