Aug. 5—The start of the school year is always a hectic time for kids. It's when you're setting the stage for the next phase of life. Those issues seem to have been magnified post-COVID, but 707 groups offer a grounding influence in a turbulent time. Groups are assembled from students entering the sixth grade, and ideally stick together through high school, said Camille Hannah, fundraising events coordinator and associate director of discipleship for The Gathering Place. It's important to have even a brief time for kids to talk to each other face-to-face. Even though the internet can provide a certain level of interaction, being physically isolated can have a negative impact on kids. Hannah says it's encouraging to see kids learn just how much they have in common with others when they sit down and talk with them in person. "In sixth grade, some of the problems seem small: 'Does this girl like me back,' or 'I have to clean my room.' By 18 or 19, they're asking who they are, wondering what they're going to do with their lives," Hannah said. "We don't want them to go through that alone." The Gathering Place tasks group leaders with coming up with a Christian message for the day, something with a "Sunday school flavor," Hannah said. It doesn't have to be directly Bible-related, but the primary discussion of the meeting should relate back to dealing with issues with a Christian mindset. "As they get older, a lot of those revolve around dating," Hannah said. But the adult leaders aren't expected to adhere to a strict plan. If one of the group members wants to address something — disagreements with parents, problems with siblings or friends or a divorce in the family — she said the focus will usually shift toward helping to support and uplift that individual. Around 700 students are signed up as of Wednesday, she said, and 98 sixth-graders, which is close to the average of 100-120 new students a year. Of those, around 80-90 kids stay with the program through high school graduation. 707 groups meet in the mornings in any number of locations — from coffee shops to churches to the St. Simons Island Pier to a student's home. They start with a quick breakfast and talk about life — personal issues, family life, school, whatever topic comes up. School has long been a source of stress for young children, even before the COVID-19 pandemic. Surveying high school students in 2022, after government-mandated lockdowns and school closures had largely been lifted, 44% reported they persistently felt sad or hopeless during the past year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Seven is a recurring number in the program outside of the name. Groups always meet at 7:07 a.m. A study done by the Barna Group found seven positive adult Christian figures can make the difference between whether a child holds onto their faith into adulthood or falls away, Hannah said. "We're giving them two of those adults right here," Hannah said. Learning how to fit in and understand others is important, but just as important for The Gathering Place is that kids find some identity through faith in God. They're selected based on where the participants live, primarily. Some groups are made up of kids who go to the same school or live in the same parts of town. Sometimes a group is assembled of students with similar interests, like in the cases of sports teams, but most are selected so students in the group are exposed to new people from different backgrounds. But Hannah said the selection team is careful to make sure each student has some friends in their group. For David Herndon, guiding a group of boys through their school life and into young men was an unforgettable experience. He was a leader of the same group for seven years, but by the time it was over he had to step away to be with his own growing family. The two years or so of the group's existence was an exercise in patience, he said. "Herding cats," was the term he used for dealing with middle school boys. After the first few years, after the group has really bonded and begun to trust one another, he said adults and other members of the group make a real difference in each other's lives. "You don't feel like you're leading them so much as walking alongside them," Herndon said. The group is still close, he said, even after they've all graduated from college. He still gets regular calls from members of the group. Both of Cindy Stephenson's children went through 707 groups from sixth grade through high school graduation. "My son didn't want to get up to go to classes, but he always got up early to go to 707," Stephenson said. She now leads a 707 group, and sees what all the hype was about. There are just some things kids won't tell their parents or might be too embarrassed to tell their friends, she said. But they'll talk to their 707 leaders or fellow group members. Her girls started off just wanting to come to the group for a free Chick-fil-A breakfast and to chat, but now, entering high school, they actually are excited to do more, to learn about the Bible and talk about life. "It's a good way for kids to get together and have a good core group they can count on," Stephenson said. "Life is tough for kids these days. They deal with a lot more than we did." The 707 program is full of stories like that, Hannah said. She recalls group members showing her photos of the same group in sixth grade and again in college. In one case, a girls' 707 group all served as maids of honor in each other's weddings. For more information on joining a group, visit thegp.org/707groups. There's also information on joining as an adult leader. The help is sorely needed. Quoting from the book of Matthew, Hannah said, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few." "It might seem like a huge undertaking, and it is, but there's some autonomy (in groups)," Hannah said. The Gathering Place does carefully vet all adult leaders. They are mandatory reporters, she said. While anything the student discuss among themselves remains confidential, adult leaders are required to report anything that leads them to believe a student suffers from depression or might harm themselves. But why all the sevens? "I have no idea," Hannah laughed. "I tell people it looks good on a clock." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.