Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » Kaizer Chiefs talent rewarded with bumper three-year deal? Kaizer Chiefs have put a three-year contract on the table for one of their most promising academy talents.  Kaizer Chiefs have readied a three-year contract offer for one of their most promising prospects. ICYMI: Is the Kaizer Chiefs bench stronger than the starting XI? There has been a clear pathway from the academy to the first team at Naturena. Happy Mashiane, Siyabonga Ngezana, Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, Sabelo Radebe and the departed Njabulo Blom are all evidence of that. More recently, Mdu Shabalala, Samkelo Zwane and Wandile Duba have made the grade. Now, there’s a new kid on the block. According to SoccerLaduma, Puso Dithejane has impressed the Amakhosi top brass enough to earn himself a pro deal. “It will depend on how they want to use him (Dithejane). He can still play for the Diski Challenge team while he is registered with the senior team, I think they have apparently given him the three years for now as the starting contract but I believe they will expand it.” “He (Dithejane) is still young and he has to learn from the senior players which means he will be given the chance to play in some of the games where the (Chiefs) technical team feels fit to use him. I think that’s why they have offered him a three-year contract for now.” WOW: Another embarrassing stat for Glamour Boys fans to digest The Kaizer Chiefs DDC side beat AmaZulu on Sunday 5-1, with goals coming from Siphesihle Tati, Puso Dithejane, Wandile Duba, Donay Jansen and Omega Mdaka. Dithejane in particular has been a standout performer. We could see the youngster in a first-team squad sooner rather than later, and we’ll keep you updated when that happens. ICYMI: Kaizer Chiefs are still the top dogs of South African football Are you a Kaizer Chiefs fan? Click to read the latest Amakhosi news Meanwhile, hit up James Freemantle for more insights, analysis and love for the beautiful game of football. Also, follow The South African on Twitter for up-to-the-minute news updates Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! As they prepare to face the Springboks, new All Blacks coach Scott Robertson says the way Rassie Erasmus’ mind works is pretty special. The Orlando Pirates pull seems to be too much for one of the top defenders in the country to resist right now, as he pushes for a move! The loss of a pet is painful, and deciding on their final resting place can be difficult. You have the option of cremation or burial. Orlando Pirates will need nothing but a win against Madagascan side Disciples in the second leg of the CAF Champions League. Kaizer Chiefs maybe ready to move on from a messy transfer saga over Asanele Velebayi, with an alternative idenitified! Kaizer Chiefs supporters have been itching for this moment. Petro de Luanda star Inacio Miguel is landing in Mzansi.  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.