Steve Sweeney, who was the chief sponsor, along with Assemblyman John Burzichelli, of New Jersey’s Offshore Wind Renewable Energy Credit law in 2010, touts New Jersey as a nationwide leader in terms of its two large investments, which will support offshore wind projects while creating jobs. By Steve Sweeney New Jersey is capitalizing on offshore wind to generate offshore jobs. This is exemplified by last month’s agreement by Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind to purchase mammoth steel monopiles manufactured by EEW at its Paulsboro plant as the foundations for the scores of wind turbines it will be anchoring to the ocean floor off of Atlantic City. The $250 million plant that will employ 500 union steelworkers at the Paulsboro Marine Terminal on the Delaware River is the largest investment in supply chain manufacturing for the offshore wind industry in the nation. It is topped in cost only by the $400 million New Jersey Wind Port being built 37 miles south at Lower Alloways Creek on Delaware Bay as a manufacturing, assembly and shipping center that will employ 1,500 workers. Together, the two facilities represent the largest onshore infrastructure investment in any state to support the burgeoning offshore wind industry. They are the outgrowth of a recognition by New Jersey government leaders that national efforts to combat climate change would inevitably lead to the installation of hundreds of offshore wind turbines and provide the opportunity for forward-looking states to create thousands of good-paying onshore jobs. As the chief sponsor, along with Assemblyman John Burzichelli, of New Jersey’s Offshore Wind Renewable Energy Credit law in 2010 and a driver of the Paulsboro and Wind Port projects, it is gratifying to see a nationwide offshore wind program finally moving forward in more than a dozen states with critical support from President Joe Biden. Of the 36 gigawatts of potential wind energy in offshore leases awarded on a thousand miles of coastline from Maine to North Carolina, 10 leases totaling up to 10.2 gigawatts are off the coast of New Jersey – the largest concentration of wind power on the Atlantic Seaboard. In September, Gov. Phil Murphy increased New Jersey’s target for electricity generated by offshore wind to 11 gigabytes, second only to California’s 25-gigawatt goal. Two Ocean Wind and two Atlantic Shores projects located 10 to 20 miles off Atlantic County’s coast that could generate up to 4.8 gigawatts are well into the permitting stage with Orsted’s Ocean Wind 1 project first in line with a target date of 2025, based on U.S. Department of Energy projections. Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind 1 has a 2027 target. Meanwhile, the U.S. Department of the Interior put the six leases awarded in the New York Bight — the continental shelf running 50 miles to 60 miles offshore from Monmouth County to Cape May County — on a fast-tracked regional environmental review that would provide federal approval by 2024, instead of the usual four years. Getting power from the New York Bight is critical to meeting Biden’s goal of 30 gigawatts of electricity from offshore wind by 2030. Not long ago, offshore wind leases went for a song. The 2016 leases for the Ocean Wind and Atlantic Shores projects went for just over $1 million each and about $1,625 per square kilometer of the ocean in current dollars, the U.S. Department of Energy calculated. Six years later, in February 2022, the six New York Bight leases went for a total of $4.3 billion and an average of $2.2 million per square kilometer. Last February’s sale — and a California lease sale last month that also took in over $2 million per square kilometer — demonstrates the long-term confidence that utilities and developers have in offshore wind profits, despite complaints about increasing steel prices, labor and borrowing costs in the current high-inflation economy. The United States is a world leader in land-based wind energy with thousands of turbines running through the heartland from the Northern Plains to Texas supplying 136 gigawatts, or 9.1%, of the nation’s electricity, Despite this progress, we are still a latecomer to offshore wind, having just two pilot projects off Rhode Island and Virginia currently in operation. Offshore wind already provides 28 gigawatts of electricity to Europe, which pioneered the technology three decades ago, and Asia’s offshore wind power jumped to 23 gigawatts after China made a major investment to add 13.8 gigawatts in 2021 alone. A vision is becoming reality: South Jersey is mastering the wind industry | Opinion The area will become the epicenter of the offshore wind industry for the entire Atlantic Seaboard Offshore wind will be a boon to New Jersey’s economy, with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities estimating that Atlantic Shores will create $1.9 billion in economic activity and 3,100 jobs and Ocean Wind II will generate $1.7 billion for the state’s economy and 3,700 jobs. The BPU smartly puts greater emphasis on economic development and job creation than most states in its agreements to purchase power. In addition to using Paulsboro’s steel monopolies, Ocean Wind and Atlantic Shores each agreed to build manufacturing facilities for turbine housing components at the New Jersey Wind Port. Atlantic Shores is also setting up a pilot project there that will use wind energy to produce hydrogen for blending with natural gas to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Similar agreements should be expected from those New York Bight wind farms with which the BPU contracts. Despite the economic development requirements, New Jersey’s price for electricity generated by Ocean Wind and Atlantic Shores came in at the national average for offshore wind contracts, above Massachusetts but below New York, Maryland, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, according to a University of Delaware study. We are making great progress in developing a diversified green energy portfolio. We saved the nuclear power plants that provide more than 40% of our energy and closed our last coal-fired power plant, which is being repurposed for offshore wind transmission. We will be piloting the use of hydrogen to reduce emissions from natural gas, and we produce more electricity from solar power per capita than any non-Sunbelt state. With large-scale offshore wind energy added to our portfolio, we will make great strides in lowering greenhouse gas emissions in the years ahead. Steve Sweeney, who served as Senate president from 2010 to 2022, is the advisory board chair of the Steve Sweeney Center for Public Policy at Rowan University. Here’s how to submit an op-ed or Letter to the Editor. Bookmark NJ.com/Opinion. Follow us on Twitter @NJ_Opinion and on Facebook at NJ.com Opinion. Get the latest news updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Follow us on Twitter @NJ_Opinion and on Facebook at NJ.com Opinion. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices