What’s possible? It’s a question this premier technological university is well-equipped to ask of our students—and to encourage our students to ask. Similarly, WPI’s esteemed scholars and researchers, and the staff who work alongside them, ask this of themselves and each other with every new term, project, and partnership. It’s this spirit that makes WPI—this institution of theory and practice and impact, of innovation and collaboration and humanity—a truly great place to work. We call this Great Minds Multiplied, and it's part of what makes WPI truly distinctive. Within the Division of Talent & Inclusion, you will find traditional human resources tools and programs—but our strategic focus is expanding. WPI is dedicated to the recruitment, engagement, retention, and on-going development of diverse faculty and staff who are personally invested in the university's continuing success. This welcoming and respectful community creates an energy that allows our employees and our students to thrive. You'll hear it talked about as talent, engagement, and inclusion, but you'll see it in action here. Our Vision Cultivate a talent rich and inclusive community – leading and educating the next generation of global innovators. Our Mission As trusted collaborators and thought partners, we align forward-thinking practices to attract and retain the best and brightest students, faculty and staff to WPI who are empowered to thrive in a diverse and inclusive community. We support WPI’s strategic efforts vision, mission and values through well-designed approaches to build our capacity, enhance our culture, focus on talent, and be recognized as an innovative thought leader and best place to work, learn, and grow. WPI values and respects the diverse identities, faiths, and spiritual beliefs held by our employees. We understand the importance of religious practices in your life, and we are committed to fostering an inclusive and supportive work environment that promotes both your well-being and a sense of belonging.    Employees are encouraged to collaborate with their supervisors to ensure they have the necessary time to participate in personal and community-based religious activities. Additionally, supervisors are encouraged to actively support their team members in taking time away from their work at WPI when necessary to honor their religious obligations. This support is vital in promoting a harmonious and inclusive workplace.  For more information and additional guidance related to Religious Holidays and Observances, all are invited to explore the resources available on the Collegiate Religious Center's website. The website features a wealth of information to help navigate the balance between religious observances and professional responsibilities.   For further assistance, please do not hesitate to reach out to a team member in the Division of Talent and Inclusion.  Lauren Turner joined WPI as the new senior vice president of talent & inclusion and chief diversity officer in January 2022. Drawn to WPI's STEM approach and the role's focus on talent, inclusion, people, and culture, Turner has found an exciting way to apply a new perspective to the university's work around representation, community, and success.  WPI's Learning Academy is the university’s flexible learning management system where employees will find extensive resources to help with professional development and personal growth. Employees driven by a lifelong passion for learning can explore the courses, videos, reading materials, and presentations that fit their work and life schedule, learning style, and immediate and long-term goals.   WPI honors the diversity each member of our community. Diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging aren’t buzzwords here—creating a community where people are comfortable enough to express themselves is part of WPI’s mission. Our community adheres to two firm guiding principles: We show respect for each other as human beings with equivalent value, and we share an abhorrence of prejudice and intolerance in all its forms. We learn from each other and celebrate our differences. WPI’s success is built on the employees who work here. Faculty and staff contribute to the university's culture of innovation and exploration that helps both our students and our employees thrive.  Working in higher education offers a sense of potential and excitement, and our many long-term employees prove that it’s a fulfilling path. WPI employees are rewarded in a variety of ways for their commitment to WPI’s mission and the heartfelt dedication they give to our students. WPI’s approach to preventing sexual misconduct is comprehensive and progressive. All members of the WPI community are protected by federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination based on sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, and transgender status. WPI is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from gender-based discrimination. It expresses the community's expectations in the Interim Title IX & Sexual Misconduct Policy. The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Multicultural Education (ODIME) houses several identity centers which are designed to foster an inclusive campus community which respects, honors, and celebrates diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging (DEIB) in all of its dimensions; including but not limited to differences of race, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, socioeconomic status, ability, nationality/citizenship, and other identities.