Processing.... Executive Mosaic is pleased to introduce Carahsoft Technology President Craig Abod as a recipient of the 2023 Wash100 Award for advancing corporate growth through partnerships with software vendors and supporting an ecosystem of value-added resellers, consulting partners and system integrators. The annual Wash100 list represents a cross-section of leaders who drive the government contracting ecosystem, and this year marks Abod’s ninth time receiving the most prestigious award in GovCon. “Craig is among the most focused and talented executives in the government contracting industry, where he has driven parabolic and impressive growth,” said Jim Garrettson, CEO of Executive Mosaic and creator of the Wash100 Award. “If you’re not impressed with Craig’s consistent and exponential accomplishments, you’re not paying attention. Not only is he disciplined and hard working but known almost universally across the government contracting senior plateau,” Garrettson added. In 2022, Carahsoft signed several agreements to help technology companies bring their platforms and services to customers in the public sector, particularly in the area of cybersecurity. The release of government cybersecurity directives and other policies in response to the rising cyberthreats and vulnerabilities are driving the procurement of data security and enpoint management tools. In February, the company teamed up with Tanium to distribute its data protection platform to federal, state and local government clients through its contract vehicles and reseller partners. “Tanium’s addition to the Carahsoft robust cybersecurity solutions portfolio strengthens the arsenal of tools Government agencies can rely on and delivers the real-time visibility, control and rapid response they need to improve their cyber hygiene and strengthen their security posture,” said Abod. Carahsoft added Okta’s two identity and access management software-as-a-service offerings to the AWS Marketplace. Abod said the move would provide public sector clients a simplified process to quickly buy and field Okta’s access platforms to securely connect their workforce. The Reston, Virginia-based government IT provider agreed to market Telos’ cybersecurity offerings – Telos Ghost virtual obfuscation network-as-a-service and Xacta cyber risk management and compliance software – and Conceal’s isolation tech platform to government customers through its contract vehicles and reselling partners. Apart from strengthening their cybersecurity postures, government agencies are pursuing cloud adoption and other digital modernization initiatives to accelerate the delivery of services to citizens and improve customer experiences. Carahsoft is supporting that effort by partnering with cloud service providers. In June, the company agreed to distribute Snowflake’s cloud offering to government customers through the AWS Marketplace to help streamline the procurement of the cloud platform and provide a unified billing capability to customers while supporting agencies’ digital modernization journeys. Abod noted that Snowflake’s tech offering could help agencies break down data silos while allowing them to focus on improving citizen experience and mission outcomes. Carahsoft also provided public sector clients access to Celonis’ process mining and execution management platform through its contracts and reseller partner network. The platform works by allowing organizations to look for hidden inefficiencies at the process level and suggesting measures to help address those issues. “The addition of Celonis’ process mining and Execution Management System to our offerings likely represents one of the largest opportunities for government services transformation since the cloud was introduced in 2010,” said Abod. In November, Carahsoft signed a strategic collaboration agreement with Amazon Web Services to further advance government clients’ cloud adoption efforts while supporting its network of resellers and independent software vendors. Through this agreement, the two companies will broaden training and enablement resources to help ISVs and resellers launch their offerings on AWS. “The SCA creates a vast number of opportunities for Carahsoft to support ISVs and resellers in using AWS to transform their business, accelerate time-to-market and level up their AWS engagement to securely drive modernization in the Public Sector,” said Abod. Carahsoft announced that it will offer asset management and cybersecurity products from several vendors to the Department of Defense and the intelligence community under the Enterprise Software Initiative blanket purchase agreement. “We are honored to work with our resellers to serve as a bridge between the needs of Government agencies and the capabilities of the technology community,” said Abod. Female leaders at Carahsoft have played a role in supporting public sector customers in the field of IT and their leadership, channel expertise and commitment to addressing the needs of customers and partners did not go unnoticed in 2022. In September, CRN named seven Carahsoft executives to the magazine’s annual Women of the Channel list to acknowledge their contributions to the public sector IT distribution segment. Abod commended these female leaders for their inclusion in the list and their dedication to advancing the company’s growth. “These channel leaders model Carahsoft’s values of prioritizing team growth, leading by example, striving for excellence within the channel and achieving great things in partnership with Carahsoft’s reseller partners and Government customers,” said Abod. Executive Mosaic congratulates Craig Abod and the Carahsoft team on their 2023 Wash100 win. Show support for the industry and your favorite awardees through our online voting platform at Wash100.com. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has awarded basic ordering agreements to 12 companies as part of the third pool of the STRATUS program for cloud software-as-a-service offerings. USDA released a request for quotes in late September and received 41 quotes for STRATUS Cloud SaaS BOA Pool 3, according to an award notice published Friday on Mark Anderson, an associate principal solutions architect at Red Hat, said government agencies looking to manage and ensure the security of hybrid cloud environments should implement an everything-as-code approach and automation. In an article published in Carahsoft.com, Anderson wrote that the everything-as-code approach “means thinking about how to approach operations in a way in which Carahsoft President Craig Abod received his 2024 Wash100 Award during a recent meeting with Executive Mosaic CEO Jim Garrettson. Help Craig Abod win the 2024 Wash100 popular vote competition! Cast your ten votes today at Wash100.com. Voting is open until April 30, and the winner will be announced in May. The Wash100 Award annually recognizes the executives of consequence The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here