


Aug. 29 (UPI) -- A computer malfunction forced Toyota to shut down operations at all the company's 14 vehicle assembly plants across Japan Tuesday, but officials did not believe that hackers were responsible.
The glitch left the Japanese automaker unable to order parts and components to supply 28 production lines across the 14 sites, while 13,000 new vehicles were delayed as technicians worked to fix the issue.
Advertisement
It was unclear when operations would return to normal after the company sent workers home early at a dozen manufacturing facilities before suspending operations at a Miyata plant in Fukuoka and Daihatsu Motor's plant in Kyoto.
An investigation was underway, but Toyota officials said there was not immediately any evidence to indicate the issue was caused by a possible cyberattack amid a recent spike in such crimes throughout Asia.
A cyberattack in July forced Toyota to shutter operations at the Port of Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture, a major shipping hub for the company.
A similar episode occurred in February 2022 when hackers breached Kojima Industries -- a major parts supplier -- which shuttered production at Toyota's facilities for days.
Tuesday's glitch also comes amid an emerging territorial dispute between Japan and China over Tokyo's decision to release treated water from the Fukushima nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean -- raising even more speculation that Beijing may be involved in the latest fallout at Toyota.
Advertisement
Japan experienced a historic rise in cybercrimes throughout 2022, with 12,369 new cases coming under investigation, which was 160 more hacking incidents than the year before, according to Japan's National Police Agency.
Ransomware attacks in Japan have also increased by 58% since 2021, while mostly targeting small and medium-size businesses.
The suppliers who make parts for global giants like Toyota have become increasingly targeted as they hold potential for a more lucrative payday for computer criminals.



Topics
Law and CrimeBusinessTechnology






Latest Headlines







World News // 21 hours ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.










World News // 17 hours ago
Blinken: Israel accepts cease-fire bridge proposal; now Hamas must 'do the same'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Israel has accepted a U.S. proposal that aims to bridge differences in a cease-fire deal with Hamas, the United States' top diplomat said Monday.










World News // 3 hours ago
Chinese and Philippine ships collied amid territorial dispute of South China Sea
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ships of the Chinese and Philippine Coast Guards collided in the South China Sea on Monday as the two neighbors blame one another for the incident amid their protracted fight over the sovereignty of the disputed waters.










World News // 1 week ago
Ernesto heads to near Newfoundland as Category 1 hurricane
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 7 hours ago
Circle K's Canadian owner seeks to buy rival Japanese-owned 7-Eleven
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Canadian owner of Circle K  is seeking to buy Japanese-owned 7-Eleven, a rival convenience store operation, in a "friendly" offer.










World News // 14 hours ago
One dead in superyacht wreck off Italian coast; British billionaire among six missing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn.










World News // 14 hours ago
Britain to detain suspects in police cells amid a prison overcrowding crisis after riots
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Britain implemented emergency measures to reduce pressure on prisons overflowing from people being sentenced for taking part in, or inciting, riots across England and Northern Ireland in late July and early August.










World News // 17 hours ago
U.N.: Record 280 aid workers killed during conflicts in 2023
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations said 280 humanitarian aid workers were killed around the world in 2023, setting a new record for the number of people dying while aiding those in need.










World News // 20 hours ago
U.S., South Korea kick off joint military exercise amid outcry from North Korea
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United States and South Korea on Monday kicked off a major joint military exercise meant to deter growing threats from North Korea, which denounced the drills as "offensive and provocative."










World News // 22 hours ago
1 dead, 1 injured in Tel Aviv explosion; police investigating as potential terrorism
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- At least one person is dead and another injured after a bomb exploded Sunday night in Tel Aviv, according to authorities who believe the blast might be terrorism.






 Aug. 29 (UPI) -- A computer malfunction forced Toyota to shut down operations at all the company's 14 vehicle assembly plants across Japan Tuesday, but officials did not believe that hackers were responsible. The glitch left the Japanese automaker unable to order parts and components to supply 28 production lines across the 14 sites, while 13,000 new vehicles were delayed as technicians worked to fix the issue.
Advertisement It was unclear when operations would return to normal after the company sent workers home early at a dozen manufacturing facilities before suspending operations at a Miyata plant in Fukuoka and Daihatsu Motor's plant in Kyoto. An investigation was underway, but Toyota officials said there was not immediately any evidence to indicate the issue was caused by a possible cyberattack amid a recent spike in such crimes throughout Asia. A cyberattack in July forced Toyota to shutter operations at the Port of Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture, a major shipping hub for the company. A similar episode occurred in February 2022 when hackers breached Kojima Industries -- a major parts supplier -- which shuttered production at Toyota's facilities for days. Tuesday's glitch also comes amid an emerging territorial dispute between Japan and China over Tokyo's decision to release treated water from the Fukushima nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean -- raising even more speculation that Beijing may be involved in the latest fallout at Toyota.
Advertisement Japan experienced a historic rise in cybercrimes throughout 2022, with 12,369 new cases coming under investigation, which was 160 more hacking incidents than the year before, according to Japan's National Police Agency. Ransomware attacks in Japan have also increased by 58% since 2021, while mostly targeting small and medium-size businesses. The suppliers who make parts for global giants like Toyota have become increasingly targeted as they hold potential for a more lucrative payday for computer criminals.