New York-based Tapestry has appointed Alan Lau to its board of directors, bringing the total number of members to 11. Lau became chief business officer for Animoca Brands, a game software and venture capital company with a portfolio of more than 380 Web3 investments, in July 2022. In this role, Lau oversees and supports the company’s portfolio and leads M&A and business development. Before that, he was chairman and CEO of Tencent WeSure, a fintech company he co-founded to offer affordable internet insurance to WeChat users. Tapestry owns Coach, Kate Spade and Stuart Weitzman. Luxury house Richemont announced the appointment of Simon Holloway as Dunhill’s new creative director, effective immediately. Holloway joins the British menswear brand from his role as creative director at fellow Richemont maison James Purdey & Sons, where he helped grow the clothing and accessories collection. He’s also held roles at Agnona and Ralph Lauren Collection, designing luxury ready-to-wear, knitwear, shoes, accessories and more. Running sneaker company Topo Athletic has appointed Ashleigh Cook as sales director, U.S. wholesale. In this position, Cook will lead Topo’s domestic sales team, working with a network of retailer accounts and independent sales agents. She brings over a decade of sales experience to the role, including positions at Altra Running. Nordstrom Inc. has appointed Jason Morris as chief technology and information officer, effective May 1. Morris has more than 25 years of technology experience in the retail industry and joins Nordstrom from Walmart, where he most recently led global enterprise technology as senior vice president of enterprise business services. At the Seattle-based Nordstrom, Morris will oversee the company’s technology functions, including engineering and data science and analytics.  Nordstrom has also announced the appointment of Eric Sprunk, former chief operating officer of Nike, to its board of directors, effective immediately. Sprunk will stand for election at the company’s upcoming 2023 annual meeting of shareholders. Sprunk has more than 25 years of leadership experience in the consumer retail industry. He most recently served as chief operating officer of Nike from 2013 to 2020, where he led the teams responsible for manufacturing, sourcing, sales, procurement and technology. Supplier of wood-based specialty fibers, Lenzing, announced there will be a personnel change on the managing board of the Lenzing Group. Robert van de Kerkhof, chief commercial officer, fiber, and managing board member since 2014, informed the supervisory board he will not be extending his contract, which runs until Dec. 31. As such, the managing board will be reduced to a party of three. Chief executive officer Stephan Sielaff will essentially take over the commercial agenda in the fiber division. Van de Kerkhof will continue to drive the sustainability area, including the CO2 roadmap, as chief sustainability officer until the end of his current term of office. The Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA) announced Courtney Titus Brooks has joined the association as its new vice president of tax. In this role, Brooks will drive retailers’ efforts to ensure a fair and competitive tax code. She will play an integral role in advocating for the retail industry in Congress and as regulators draft and finalize rules to enforce the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). Brooks joins RILA from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) where she represented business owners in every congressional district and state. Prior to NFIB, she worked at the U.S. Tire Manufacturers Association and spent six years on Capitol Hill in legislative roles with Sen. Lindsey Graham and Rep. Tom Rice. Walmart Inc. announced its chief merchandising officer, Charles Redfield, is stepping down after a year in the role. Walmart U.S. CEO John Furner issued a memo to Walmart associates stating Redfield would leave the position but take on an advisory role supporting the U.S. business, effective May 1, citing the decision to leave was because the 32-year veteran of the mass retailer wanted to spend more time with his family. A successor has not yet been named. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.