Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? When you picture a Tron video game, what comes to mind? Perhaps you’re imagining a light cycle game that has you racing to the death. Maybe you’re seeing a third-person action game where you toss discs and derez rogue programs. Whatever you’re currently dreaming up, it’s likely not a two-hour visual novel that uses the digital world to wax philosophical about how little control we have over the world around us. That’s exactly what Tron: Identity is — and it turns out that’s the best use of the Disney IP since its arcade days. Out now on Nintendo Switch and PC, Tron: Identity is a logical project for Bithell Games and Mike Bithell. The director previously experimented with short-form, sci-fi visual novels in the late 2010s with Subsurface Circular and Quarantine Circular, two futuristic titles about learning to communicate with robots and alien lifeforms. In context, those games now feel like a rehearsal for his latest title as the world of Tron is a natural fit for that premise. Bithell weaves an engrossing digital mystery here that gives players the chance to better understand the ins and outs of the Grid. Tron: Identity is the most thoughtful, and perhaps respectful, use of the Tron franchise we’ve ever gotten from a video game. It’s a short, cerebral detective story that’s genuinely curious about how the digital inhabitants of the series’ world perceive the Grid. It’s a successful experiment in restraint, resisting the urge to reduce Tron to another hollow video game playground in order to unearth the humanity hidden under layers of neon. Tron: Identity is a classic sci-fi detective story, almost feeling more like a Blade Runner game (a project Bithell and company could likely knock out of the park given the chance). The story begins after a burglary at the Grid’s central structure, The Repository. A program named Query is brought in to solve the case, questioning a select few characters in the building who’ve had their memories scrambled in an explosion. The story mostly plays out in a motion comic format, with static images, text, and dialogue choices. While a lack of voice acting and tiny UI make for a frustrating mix, Tron: Identity shines as a visual novel thanks to sharp writing. The central mystery makes for a gripping neo-noir that’s made all the more impactful thanks to meaningful decisions. Dialogue choices truly matter here (something Pentiment recently pulled off expertly), as each character has a small relationship tree that significantly impacts the story. Without giving away too much, I squandered a critical lead in my story thanks to an itchy trigger finger. There isn’t a glut of choices here, and most characters only have around three potential conclusions to their arcs, but that was enough to make me want to start a new file the second it ended. There were still threads to unravel after the credits rolled. What’s most compelling here, though, is when Bithell uses the world of Tron as a platform for philosophical pondering. The story takes place in a Grid that’s been abandoned by its creator, with programs acting without user input. I found myself eager to find out how every character was coping with that fact, going through a very familiar crisis of faith reflective of real-world religious debates. Some programs patiently wait for their creator to return, while others want to claim the Grid as their own. There’s an undercurrent of anxiety throughout The Repository, as I can feel every program grappling with the fear that they have no control over their situation. There’s an inevitability to their existence that everyone is battling. That makes the impactful choice system all the more meaningful, as it lets Query find some semblance of control amidst crisis. Outside of the story, the world of Tron remains an obvious fit for a video game on an aesthetic level. We get a solid soundtrack of ominous electronic tracks here and the visuals are familiar, dealing out the film’s cool neon tones. Tron: Identity certainly isn’t flashy with its static images, which may disappoint those who love the series for its look, but the restrained look keeps the emphasis on the narrative and characters. The other IP twist comes in the form of a simple minigame that calls back to Bithell’s The Solitaire Conspiracy. To reconstruct a character’s memory, players have to defrag their energy disc. That plays out in a simple, but enjoyable puzzle game where players have to clear a semicircle of cards by pairing matching suits or numbers to delete a card. Cards can only be matched to the ones they’re adjacent to or to one three spots away. Other little rule complications pop up the deeper the story goes, as late puzzles introduce cards that jump positions or spawn new cards if not cleared. It might feel like a random bit of gamification to break up a text-heavy story, but it’s an addictive little minigame that’s careful not to overstay its welcome. The rules are easy to understand and I never found myself backed into a corner I couldn’t get out of (an undo button helps ease that, as does the ability to let AI make a few moves for you). It’s only hurt by the tiny UI, which makes it a little difficult to select individual cards when using a joystick. For those who really dig it, there’s a dedicated endless mode included here that makes for a fun time-killer. I’ve always appreciated Tron for its stylish visuals, but I walked away from Tron: Identity with a much better grip on its world. Especially in an age where artificial intelligence is a hot topic, it’s a perfect time to dig into the programs and raise questions about digital sentience. It might be a bit heady for some, and it certainly asks more questions than it can answer, but it all makes for a gripping story that requires no prior knowledge of Tron to appreciate. Tron: Identity was reviewed on Nintendo Switch. Black Myth: Wukong isn't a true Soulslike in the traditional sense, but it does share a few core elements players will recognize. Chief among them is the healing system. To recover health, The Destined One needs to take a drink from his limited gourd. Once you've downed the entire thing, the only way to refill it is to rest at a checkpoint. This makes rationing your drinks critically important, especially during boss fights. However, there is a way to upgrade your gourd to not only grant additional sips, but also apply new buffs. You can't do it yourself, so here's where and how to upgrade your gourd. Black Myth: Wukong only has the staff as the single weapon type. However, there are different variants to acquire, and these armaments have their own stats and bonus effects. Some are quite good, that they become invaluable for entire sections of the campaign. Here's our guide for the best weapons in Black Myth: Wukong. Likewise, please be reminded that this article contains spoilers.
The best weapons in Black Myth: Wukong
For our Black Myth: Wukong best weapons guide, we've chosen five staves that overshadow the rest. This is primarily because of the bonuses their confer, as well as their inherent stats and item rarity. We also took note of how they're obtained in the campaign.
Jingubang  	Rarity: Mythical
 	Stats: +135 attack; +6% critical hit chance
 	Unique effect: The gauge of the fourth Focus Point no longer depletes over time.
 	Crafting materials: None.
 	Set bonus: Black Myth: Wukong is all about nonstop action as you bring down dozens of bosses. While there are a plethora of moves at your disposal, including combos, spells, and transformations, it's still worth looking into various gear pieces. After all, we can't just talk about offense when there are some viable options for defense. That brings us to this guide that discusses the best armor sets in Black Myth: Wukong. Note that this article contains spoilers.
The best armor sets in Black Myth: Wukong
For our best armor sets guide for Black Myth: Wukong, we chose five options that are head and shoulders above the rest. Some are great because of extra offensive boosts that they provide, while others grant absolutely monstrous defense. One of our picks even seems unwieldy at first, but there are some workarounds to make it ideal in certain situations.
Monkey King armor set  	Rarity: Mythical
 	Stats: Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.