Sorry, analog—you have some serious competition.  Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor. We may earn a commission from these links. When it comes to keeping a timepiece on your wrist, you want something that is, above all else, convenient. Sure, elegant watches with tiny dials and leather straps can be great staple pieces, but sometimes, you just need to glance at your wrist, see the time, and move on with your day. Enter stage left: digital watches. The beauty of a digital watch is how easy it is. You might prefer to use one every day, thanks to its convenience and affordability compared to analog watches, or, you might just like to keep one or two around to swap your analogs for while you're exercising, traveling, or anything else that might cause some wear and tear to your other timepieces. Below, we've gathered 12 of the best digital watches on the market, with picks perfect for everything from fancy dinners to working out. This digital watch is fairly standard, but that means it's got all the functions you want one to have. The resin strap is durable against wear and tear, and while it's designed to be with you for sports, you can get away with wearing it just about anywhere. Adidas, of course, makes the ultimate sporty digital watch. This one is chic and sleek, with some gold metal hardware to seamlessly transition into finer occasions. For a standout piece that does it all, Nixon has a digital watch so damn good, it's basically a smartwatch. All the convenience you need, right on your wrist. So, you want a digital watch that looks like an expensive analog watch. Fear not—this style has you more than covered. It pairs perfectly with dressy vibes, office clothes, and evening events. Affordable, durable, and functional, this sporty timepiece is perfect for hitting the gym. It has very basic functions, so it may not be your everyday timepiece, but it sure as hell is going to be your favorite workout partner. Ted Baker London has a watch that looks retro, but feels modern. This one has a date and time display, plus a light-up face and alarm and stopwatch features. For a bit of opulence, look no further. This rose gold digital watch has analog features as well, but the real highlight here is the stunning, bracelet-like strap. Easy, effortless, and damn sleek, this croc-effect watch looks straight off a superhero's wrist. No matter how much you know about watches, you know the name Timex. The iconic brand's take on a digital watch has a sleek silver strap, plus water-resistance and every basic feature you'd need, so you can wear this everyday. For under 25 bucks, you can get a fully-functional, water-resistant digital watch that, quite frankly, has a distinctly dope, retro appeal. Of course, if you wanted to go even cheaper, Amazon Essentials' digital watch is less than $20. Yeah, you read that right—they do make watches at that price. Guess has one of the sleekest digital watches on the market, with a minimalist face and silicone strap. This one is great for everyday use, and includes a battery for the Japanese Quartz movement. The ‘Love Island’ Reunion Is My Met Gala George Santos’s Unspeakable Fashion Crime Five Fits With: Aussie Singer-Songwriter Ruel This Week’s Best Menswear Releases Spike Fearn on ‘Alien: Romulus’ 18 Types of Coats and Jackets to Own  The 15 Best Slim Wallets to Last the Long Haul Shop Glen Powell’s Exact Hat From ‘Twisters’ The 15 Best Linen Shirts to Buy Right Now This Week’s Best Menswear Releases Five Fits With: Robert Geller of Rag & Bone The 7 Best Pickleball Shoes for Men in 2024 A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.