With Easter Sunday this weekend, some chain stores in Sacramento will close to observe the holiday. Not all stores are closing though. Some local markets will keep business running as usual or instead offer catered meals for your Easter gatherings. Here’s a list of retailer store hours for Sunday, April 9. Note that local store hours can vary, so call ahead if you’re unsure. Sam’s Club: Closed Sunday Costco: Closed Sunday Target: Closed Sunday Sacramento Natural Foods Co-op: Open from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Trader Joe’s: Open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Walmart: Open from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. Raley’s: Open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sprouts: Open from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Safeway: Most locations close at midnight. Winco: Open from 6 a.m. to 12 a.m. Whole Foods: Open from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. CVS: Open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Rite Aid: Open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Walgreens: Open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Dollar General: Open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 99 Cents Only: Open from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Arden Fair Mall: Closed Sunday Westfield Galleria at Roseville: Closed Sunday Starbucks: Hours vary by location. Dutch Bros: Hours vary by location. Denny’s: Open 24 hours IHOP: Hours vary by location. Buca di Beppo: 11 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. What do you want to know about life in Sacramento? Ask our service journalism team your top-of-mind questions in the module below or email servicejournalists@sacbee.com. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.