
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/04/24/shopoff-plans-urban-retail-village-for-orange-county-mall-with-1200-homes/   Project will involve redevelopment or 26 acres encompassing Westminster Mall. Shopoff Realty Investments has announced plans to convert the Westminster Mall in Orange County to an urban retail village with more than 1,200 new homes. Plans filed in Orange County by the Irvine-based developer envision the redevelopment of 26 acres on either side of the mall, which is in Westminster, according to a report in Urbanize Los Angeles. Residential buildings will replace a shuttered Macy's and a vacant Sears store at the mall. Shopoff bought the site of the former Sears store for $46M in July. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Jack Rogers |  July 09, 2024 Invokes 1939 law to collect millions in taxes on public housing projects. By Kelsi Maree Borland |  June 17, 2024 And AI tools are supporting investment strategies for both anchored and non-anchored properties. By Brian A. Lee |  May 15, 2024 Consumer demand will increase when the nation's biggest county adds a major new rail project to the frothy mix of development underway. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
