By Christian Oliver    Published:  10:49 EDT, 13 July 2023   |  Updated:  11:01 EDT, 13 July 2023      2 View  comments  Americans are being warned of a new check-out scam after thieves were caught appearing to use a sneaky sleight of hand trick to steal a Walmart customer's bank card. Arvada Police in Colorado shared a video of the particular theft in progress, alerting customers to the possible cash swap ploy. The CCTV footage showed the alleged criminals standing by a vending machine before making casual conversation with a man. They appeared to ask if he had dropped some money that they had pretended to find on the floor. Unbeknownst to the victim, the interaction was staged to allow them to hand the money to the man while simultaneously nabbing his debit card from his wallet. Arvada Police Department also said the victim has fraudulent charges totaling nearly $2,000. The alleged criminals appeared to ask the man if he had dropped some money they claimed to find on the floor The CCTV footage showed the alleged criminals standing by a vending machine before making casual conversation with a man The Police department asked that if members of the public had any more information on the three suspects seen in the video to please contact them 'Sorry to say that you must be aware of even casual conversations at the grocery store,' Arvada Police wrote on Twitter. Three criminals can be seen waiting to take advantage of someone checking out.' They continued: 'The victim then checks his wallet while the female distracts him by asking questions. 'The male suspect then grabs the victim's orange credit card while this is all happening, and poof... the credit card is gone. 'The victim never notices or feels it happen.' The Police department asked that if members of the public had any more information on the three suspects seen in the video to please contact them.  Many were quick to voice their anger and disgust over the incident. 'Organized crime in action. Wow,' one person said. 'It is terrible that people are this way. So sad you can't even feel safe shopping,' another commented. A third said: 'I feel like grocery stores need to move the sodas and such out of those areas for this reason. It’s to close to people checking out. 'I know it won’t stop this behavior but maybe it would help. I hope that they find these people and prosecute them. Unbeknownst to the victim, the interaction was staged to allow them to hand the money to the man while simultaneously nabbing his debit card from his wallet Arvada Police in Colorado shared a video of the particular theft in progress, alerting customers to the possible cash swap ploy Walmart executives and major retailers have long warned that they are experiencing increased organised crime and theft in their stores across the country. Last year Walmart boss Doug McMillon told CNBC that the retail giant may have to hike prices and shutter some stores amid 'historically high' thefts. He said theft has become a major issue for the chain known for its low prices, saying district attorneys' lenient policies need to be 'corrected.' 'If that's not corrected over time, prices will be higher and our stores will close,' he told co-host Rebecca Quick. McMillon did not specify in the interview which locations have experienced this record-high level of shoplifting, but stores in Chicago have been the latest to close after not being profitable. His announcement comes after Walmarts in Los Angeles resorted to locking up most of their inventory to prevent further thefts. Last year, the chief financial officer at Walmart's biggest rival, Target, also revealed that shoplifting at its stores had jumped more than 50 percent year on year, leading to more than $400 million in losses in 2022 alone. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group