Winslow Townson-USA TODAY Sports LeBron James is reportedly assembling an all-star caliber roster for Team USA’s campaign at the 2024 Olympics in Paris. His rumored commitments include Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Anthony Davis, Draymond Green, and Jayson Tatum. The potential team is being dubbed “The Avengers” by numerous analysts, due to its abundance of talent and as a reference to Team USA’s disappointing fourth-place finish at the 2023 FIBA World Cup.  In line with the nickname, The Athletic’s Marcus Thompson II assigned each rumored member of Team USA a superhero counterpart. During his analysis, Thompson compares Tatum to Winter Soldier. “Jayson Tatum — Winter Soldier: Another future cornerstone. He’s incredibly resilient with elite scoring chops.” In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Winter Soldier is deemed a promising asset to the Avengers’s future following Captain America’s retirement. Similarly, Tatum is considered one of the best up-and-coming superstars in the NBA.  For the 2022-2023 regular season, Tatum averaged a career-high 30.1 points, 8.8 rebounds, and 4.6 assists per game. The 25-year-old was also named this year’s All-Star Game MVP, earned an All-NBA First Team selection, and finished fourth in MVP voting.  Tatum’s comparison to Winter Soldier is fitting for his current expectations within the league. The nickname is also inadvertently fitting for New England’s harsh winter weather conditions.  Check out the full list of superhero comparisons here.  Further Reading Jayson Tatum 'Prepared to Commit' to Team USA for 2024 Olympics How the Celtics Might Go About Filling Final Roster Spot Tyrese Haliburton Explains Why He Has Celtics Matchup Circled Celtics Sign Sharpshooter Svi Mykhailiuk Brad Stevens Discusses Differences in Joe Mazzulla Entering Year 2 as Celtics' Head Coach Brad Stevens Discusses Kristaps Porzingis' Role with Celtics, Provides Rehab Update Kristaps Porzingis Speaks on Recovery from Foot Injury: 'I Couldn't Get Rid of the Inflammation' Here's What to Know About Celtics' 2023-24 Schedule Rick Barry Discusses Jaylen Brown's Record-Breaking Contract Extension, Kristaps Porzingis Trade, Two Suggested Superstar Additions for Boston Celtics, Who's Face of the NBA Examining How Celtics' Starting Lineup Might Shapeshift This Season Dwyane Wade Discusses Jayson Tatum's Next Step, Him and Jaylen Brown's Challenge, Heat Culture, Pat Riley, Damian Lillard, and Life After Basketball Why Celtics Should Enter 2023-24 Season Optimistic About Most Important Area of Improvement