A crash involving four vehicles left people injured and closed Route 22 East Monday morning in Lehigh County. The crash was reported at 6:58 a.m. on Route 22 East between Route 309 and Cedar Crest Boulevard in South Whitehall Township, Trooper Nate Branosky said. People were injured in the collision. All lanes of Route 22 East were closed, and the left lane of Route 22 West was also closed. A box truck crashed through the concrete median from the eastbound lanes into the westbound side of the highway. A tractor-trailer and multiple cars were on the shoulder of Route 22 East, as emergency vehicles traveled west in the eastbound lanes to access the crash site. Traffic was snarled in both directions and Branosky said drivers should expect delays. By 9 a.m., the ramp was blocked from Interstate 78 to Route 22 East. While all lanes of Route 22 East were closed to traffic, crews were able to open a single lane to get stranded drivers past the crash site. A crane was set up on the highway to remove the box truck from the median. While a single lane of traffic was getting by on the westbound side, traffic was lining up to MacArthur Road. Sarah Cassi may be reached at scassi@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices