If you're looking for a laptop that can withstand the drops, spills and crashes that come with everyday life, there's one standout choice that's designed to handle it all: the ASUS Chromebook C403 Rugged & Spill Resistant Laptop. Perfect for students or on-the-go professionals, this laptop is a whopping 49 per cent off right now with Amazon's latest sale on ASUS laptops and Chromebooks.  This shopper-approved device has been winning over Amazon Canada shoppers — and at its current sale price of just $179, it's a great time to shop. $179 $349 at Amazon In addition to containing all of the tools you'd expect from a Chromebook, this ASUS laptop is built to withstand the toughest conditions. It has a rubber safety grip to help protect against drops and a durable 3D-textured finish to help with scratches and fingerprints. For even more protection, it also has a has a spill-resistant keyboard that makes it the perfect Chromebook for the classroom or any accident-prone environment. Built-in Google software lets you access a library of apps, games, music, movies, TV, books, magazines and more. Thanks to its affordable price tag, long battery life and simple setup, Amazon shoppers have given this ASUS laptop top marks. The laptop has earned a 4.3-star rating from more than 2,400 customer reviews and has been called a "strong little machine" that's "perfect for kids" — or others who are prone to accidents. One reviewer noted purchasing this laptop for their school-aged child, and wrote that it's "ideal for all their academic needs" as well as being "sturdy and durable." $179 $349 at Amazon "Quick, efficient, effective and sleek!" raved another reviewer. Since this laptop runs on the Chrome operating system, it has some definite advantages, as well as some drawbacks. The simple interface is easy to use and syncs up with your Gmail account in just minutes, but may require a bit of a learning curve if you're used to a Windows or Mac laptop. It also is better suited to everyday tasks like browsing the internet or editing documents, but may not be the best choice for gaming, or working with large image and video files. At $179 it's hard to go wrong with this portable and durable ASUS laptop. Shoppers agree that it's a top choice if you're looking for a "basic" and affordable option, especially one that's user-friendly for kids and older adults. Those who need something more powerful may find this Chromebook lacking, but it still delivers everything you need for those who are after a device with "no extra bells and whistles." You can also shop more ASUS laptops and Chromebooks on sale below. $149 $179 at Amazon $449 $546 at Amazon $999 $1,399 at Amazon $1,499 $1,999 at Amazon $999 $1,185 at Amazon The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.