Comment While the TechCrunch crew enjoys a tweet and a post from time to time, we also enjoy reading longer-form materials. So much so that we are compiling a year-end revue of our favorite reads. This is not just a list of serious business books or just fiction that was published this year. Instead, we have put together a list of just our favorite stuff that we read this year. Some of it won’t surprise; I hope that some of it does — but given how literate the average TechCrunch reader is, perhaps I will be contentedly disappointed. The following list is in no particular order. And while we may earn a dollar or two off of commissions if you buy one of the books below, we’re not doing this for the money. We just love books, and reading, and want to share some of our joy with you. (TechCrunch also has lists of recommendations from founders and venture investors coming later this month!) Hugs, happy holidays and may your 2023 reading crop be fruitful. This article contains links to affiliate partners where available. When you buy through these links, TechCrunch may earn an affiliate commission. Each recommender’s books are grouped, links go to Amazon. Summaries are via the TechCruncher in question, at times lightly edited for clarity and format. From Harri: “Both my picks are rereads that gently address existential spirals with reassurance, through self love in the case of ‘You Are Here’, and through writing in the case of ‘Writing Down the Bones.’” Anna did not provide commentary on her picks, so I have decided that the way to Be Good is to spend Four Thousand Weeks each year having a Very British Christmas. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  MIT this week showcased tiny batteries designed specifically for the purpose of power these systems to execute varied tasks.  Rimac revealed Friday during The Quail, a Motorsports Gathering at Monterey Car Week the Nevera R, an all-electric hypercar that’s meant to push the performance bounds of its predecessor.  Powered by WordPress VIP