Comment Secure web gateways, the network security services designed to help organizations enforce IT policies around internet usage by blocking (or letting through) certain traffic, are one of the most common investments that organizations make in their cybersecurity profiles. But this is a product that’s been around for decades, which means there remains a lot of room for innovation and improvement. Today, an SWG startup called dope.security said it raised $16 million to fuel its efforts to do just that. In contrast to being routed through the cloud and data centers or large and expensive on-premise network appliances (some the popular approaches for such services these days), Dope has designed a secure web gateway product that’s run on an organizations’ endpoints: computers and other devices connected to the company network. It believes this approach makes it easier to use, more secure, less prone to failures, significantly faster, and more privacy-friendly for users. Dope plans to use the funding for hiring, business development, and to continue enhancing its product with more features. New features will include a Dope API later in the year, and a “zero-trust” layer for organizations that need that extra level of security, said Kunal Agarwal, Dope’s founder and CEO, in an interview from its HQ in Mountain View, CA. The Series A round was led by GV (Google Ventures), with Boldstart Ventures and Preface, which backed the startup last year when it was still in stealth, also participating. The company has now raised $20 million. It did not disclose its valuation. Agarwal said he first came up with Dope’s central premise when he was working at Symantec, where he started as an engineer working on SWG and worked his way up to product manager and eventually, general manager. Symantec is one of the world’s best-known purveyors of secure web gateways and other security products, so Agarwal saw firsthand just how long it took Symantec to make any changes to the product and the problems with how the product works today. “I lived SWG day in and day out,” he said. “I heard how customers complained about how, when it doesn’t work properly, you don’t have web access at all.” In his view, as computing has shifted wholesale to the cloud, moving security to the cloud to manage that change has been a misfire. Typical secure web gateway products built to work in the cloud essentially send all of their traffic to servers before letting it proceed or blocking it. This essentially causes delays and can even result in total failure when something doesn’t work correctly. The problem has been compounded by more traffic moving to the cloud and more people working from disparate locations. Dope describes its approach as “fly direct”: The end point is where the traffic is evaluated before it is allowed through (or not, as the case may be). That reduced hop not only means less time spent in transit, it also lowers the chances of the whole system falling over. Dope uses the cloud, but only for certain aspects of the service. Administrators manage white and black lists on the cloud, and that data is distributed to endpoints using guidance from Dope itself, which says that it’s crunching through some 700 terabytes of content to understand threats on the internet. Later, diagnostics and analytics are sent to the cloud so that network administrators can better understand usage and behavior on their networks. That points to another important aspect of this and all secure web gateway products: The baseline of these services is that they are there to control how people go online, monitor what they do and see how (and what) data might come into or go out of a network. But in the bigger scheme of a market that was worth $9 billion at the end of 2022 and predicted to grow to nearly $24 billion by 2028, it’s clear that this is only going to grow as an approach in the struggle of trying to secure organizations against ever-growing cybersecurity threats. Dope believes it’s offering a route to managing that containment in a potentially less invasive way that is more user-friendly than the other options out there. “dope.security cares deeply about design and user experience in a way that is unique to the security industry. Its first goal when creating a product is simplicity — the simplicity of architecture, purchasing, deployment and management,” said Sangeen Zeb, a general partner at GV, in a statement. “dope.security is well positioned to reinvent traditional approaches to SWG, and we’re excited to work with the team to bring this modern approach to life.” Zeb is joining the startup’s board with this round. Pricing starts at $60 per device, per year for the service. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  MIT this week showcased tiny batteries designed specifically for the purpose of power these systems to execute varied tasks.  Rimac revealed Friday during The Quail, a Motorsports Gathering at Monterey Car Week the Nevera R, an all-electric hypercar that’s meant to push the performance bounds of its predecessor.  While the ethics of AI-generated porn are still under debate, using the technology to create nonconsensual sexual imagery of people is, I think we can all agree, reprehensible. One such…  Almost two weeks ago, TechCrunch reported that African e-commerce giant Jumia was planning to sell 20 million American depositary shares (ADSs) and raise more than $100 million, given its share…  We’re entering the final week of discounted rates for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on select individual ticket types until August 23. Join a dynamic crowd of over…  Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite, announced on Friday that it has officially launched its rival iOS app store in the European Union. The Epic Games Store is also launching…  After bringing AI overviews to the U.S., Google is expanding the AI-powered search summaries to six more countries: India, Brazil, Japan, the U.K., Indonesia and Mexico. These markets will also…  The Commission is seeking more information from Meta following its decision to deprecate its CrowdTangle transparency tool. The latest EU request for information (RFI) on Meta has been made under…  Powered by WordPress VIP