Comment Actors are in the middle of a major, protracted battle with Hollywood over what role AI will be playing in the future of entertainment, and how they’ll be compensated for that when those AIs are basically likenesses of them. Over at Meta, it looks like some of those kinks have been ironed out… Today, the parent of Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp (and a bunch of other products it hopes will, one day, become as successful as these) unveiled a new set of celebrity AIs: 28 AI characters based on famous people — built in cooperation with those celebs but running entirely on AI — from across the worlds of sport, music, social media and more. The list is a who’s-who of personalities that spin the media wheels of the western world, including the likes of Tom Brady, Charli D’Amelio, Snoop Dog and Paris Hilton. The idea here is that Meta’s version of them, these AIs — which Facebook tells me are built on Llama 2 — can be called into conversations with users across all of Meta’s various platforms (chats, VR experiences and so on), where they will give you fun and helpful advice in their areas of expertise. Tom Brady’s Bru (not Bro) will chew the fat about sports; Charli’s Coco will help you dance; Kendall Jenner’s Billie will give you “ride or die” advice. Some are a little more left field. Paris plays Amber (a character of a character), who will help you solve whodunits, and… Snoop is NOT helping you craft music or build hydroponic enterprises; he is a, um, “Dungeon Master.” For now, Meta is being somewhat cagey on all of the details behind how the celebrity characters were built. Here’s what we know and don’t know: — The company confirmed to us that they are built on the Llama 2 large language model that was released earlier this year. — These are not video clips, but generated AI animations: Meta filmed the people that the AIs represent, and then used “generative techniques” to turn those disparate animations into cohesive user experiences. The aim of the model is to preserve a “unique personality and tone” for each character, while also making sure each provided useful information. It declined to comment on whether it filmed just the people in question, or whether clips of others were used to supplement the footage. — That also included what Mark Zuckerberg described onstage as “thousands of hours” of red-teaming and working with prompts to train the characters to steer clear of iffy topics, and so that the video interactions matched up with the text-based responses when the conversations are in chats. — The chat aspect is important: There is no audio for now, although that is apparently coming next year. I can’t help but wonder: Will it be more successful than Amazon’s celebrity Alexa voices, which it shut down earlier this year? — Absolutely no detail on the business model behind this. We asked how Meta was compensating the celebrities for their likenesses, which got a resounding “no comment” from the spokespeople. But, when you consider some of the existing Meta business — where for example Instagram has a fairly well-established model for paying creators; and the whole company is largely run on advertising revenues — you might already be able to hear the spiel. These characters will appear across multiple social platforms and interfaces (mobile, web, VR). And influencers and other media personalities will be able to use them to stay “authentic” to their brands, while also letting Kendall Inc. scale up Kendall’s output and “engagement.” We’re only starting to get to grips with how AI can trick us into thinking we’re looking or listening to real-world humans doing human things, when in reality we’re looking at likenesses. Sadly, there is no real Pope rocking Balenciaga, and there is no new Drake track. So when the “characters” were first unveiled by Zuckerberg during the keynote today, it was hard to get a sense of what we were looking at. Are these video clips? Is the AI character really responding to what Zuck was writing? Unlike the help Meta thinks you might get from its chatbots one day, the live demo featuring a nodding and smiling Snoop Dog acting as “Dungeon Master” did nothing to help answer these questions. (“Note: text RPGs make for exceptionally boring and awkward onstage demos,” one of my colleagues quipped in Slack.)  If there was an overriding message from today’s AI news it was this: Leave your dystopia at the door! Meta often has a knack for pulling the uncanny carpet out from under us, and that’s what it’s aiming for here, playing on the wow factor. We want to know these people, and now, every one of us can converse with Tom, Kendall and Paris — and Meta can build a full-on experience, and maybe even a business, out of that.  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that it’s Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Powered by WordPress VIP