Big tech, big losses. The planet’s technology billionaires had another rough year, declining in both number and collective wealth on Forbes’ 2023 ranking of the world’s wealthiest people. In all, Forbes found 313 billionaires who made their fortune in technology, compared to 332 last year. Their aggregate net worth is $1.9 trillion, down $200 billion from last year’s $2.1 trillion. The lower numbers reflect a cooling tech market that’s correcting itself after a sky-high peak in 2021, when Forbes found 365 technology billionaires worth $2.5 trillion, the highest ever. The technology sector has proven not to be immune from broad worries about inflation, rising interest rates and fears of recession—not to mention a government crackdown on tech moguls in China. No one has lost more than Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, who is $57 billion poorer than a year ago, thanks to a 38% plummet in the e-commerce giant’s stock. Amazon, which hired rapidly during the pandemic, is now reversing some of that growth with 27,000 layoffs announced in early 2023. His ex-wife, MacKenzie Scott—who got a quarter of Bezos’ shares in their 2019 divorce and who has been giving money away at a record pace—is down big too, by $19.2 billion. Others tech giants whose fortunes have taken a big hit include Larry Page and Sergey Brin of Google (-$31.8 billion and -$31 billion, respectively), as well as Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer of Microsoft (-$25 billion and -$10.7 billion, respectively). Microsoft and Google’s parent company Alphabet have also announced major layoffs in 2023, affecting 10,000 and 12,000 employees, respectively. But blue chip tech companies aren’t the only ones feeling the pain. Unicorns—startups valued at $1 billion or more—have also struggled this year, as venture capitalist money has dried up and valuations have fallen. Founders of unicorns have lost some of the most wealth of all billionaires since last year, when measured by percentage of net worth. Take cofounders John and Patrick Collison of Stripe, which raised money at a $50 billion valuation in March, down 47% from its last funding round in March 2021. Or look at Melanie Perkins and Cliff Obrecht of graphic design firm Canva, which is similarly worth about half its September 2021 peak, according to Forbes estimates. Each of the four has seen their fortune drop by more than 40% since Forbes’ 2022 ranking of the wealthiest people in the world. In all, Forbes found that 51 unicorn founders are poorer than they were in 2022—and at least 19 are no longer billionaires at all. Not that technology isn’t still a good field for getting rich. It’s the third-most common sector for billionaires—and the wealthiest of the bunch, with its billionaires worth some $170 billion more than next-place fashion and retail. He’s $57 billion poorer than a year ago—the biggest loss of any billionaire on the list—thanks to a one-third decline in Amazon’s stock price. Since stepping down as Amazon CEO in 2021, Bezos has flown to space via his company Blue Origin, made waves with a near-complete $500 million superyacht and stepped up his philanthropy through support for groups like Bezos Academy free preschools and grants from his Bezos Earth Fund. The Google cofounder stepped away from day-to-day operations in 2019, but in late 2022 attended strategy meetings alongside cofounder Sergey Brin amid the generative AI arms race spurred by ChatGPT. Page has also stopped selling his stock: After unloading more than $2.5 billion (pre-tax) between May 2021 and April 2022, he has not sold a share since—and subsequently saw his fortune dip due to the 30% drop in Google shares. Like his cofounder Page, Brin may be taking a more active role at Google parent company Alphabet again. A code request filed in January appears to be his first in years, and he has reportedly submitted code changes to Google’s AI chatbot. Brin sold more than $2.5 billion worth of Alphabet shares between May 2021 and April 2022, but has only gifted stock since. Gates still spends 10% of his time working with teams at Microsoft despite stepping down from the board in 2020. He owns around 1% of its shares, which have fallen by 10% since last year. But the biggest reason for his big drop in wealth: In July, Gates announced a $20 billion gift to his Gates Foundation, which he co-chairs with his ex-wife, Melinda French Gates. The pair plans to wind the organization down within 25 years. Scott has given away more than $14 billion since her 2019 divorce from Jeff Bezos, a staggering sum that includes $6 billion just in 2022 gifts. In December, Scott delivered on her promise to detail all the grants she’s made so far on a website called Yield Giving; it lists the 1,600 groups to which she’s donated. Ballmer’s wealth slumped due to the 10% fall in Microsoft shares. Luckily his L.A. Clippers—the sixth most valuable NBA team—are flying high. He’s building them a privately funded, $2 billion arena (with 1,200 toilets), slated for completion in 2024. The former Google CEO now focuses much of his time on philanthropy, but—like Page and Brin—Schmidt’s wealth largely slid because of the decline in Alphabet stock. The cofounder and CEO of cloud security company Zscaler saw his fortune dip by nearly half, corresponding to his company’s 48% drop in stock price. Zscaler surpassed $1 billion in revenue for the first time in fiscal 2022, but said it “expects to see net losses for the foreseeable future.” Like many of his fellow tech unicorn billionaires, the Atlassian cofounder and co-CEO saw his wealth plummet this year due to his company’s 37% drop in stock price. More than seven years after the software services provider’s 2015 IPO, Cannon-Brookes began selling stock in October 2022—when Atlassian shares were already far below their 2021 peak—as part of a trading plan filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. He has sold $123 million worth of stock since then. The Dell chairman and CEO’s family office, MSD Partners, has grown into a massive investment and advisory firm. It manages more than $12 billion and merged with fellow billionaire Byron Trott’s BDT & Co. in October. Still, Dell is $5 billion poorer this year, after a 27% drop in Dell Technologies’ stock. The founder of TikTok parent ByteDance stepped down as CEO in May 2021 and soon resigned from its board, reportedly under pressure from the Chinese government. His fortune, though, remains concentrated in his stake in ByteDance, which faces increased scrutiny in the U.S. over its social media subsidiary TikTok and the way it manages user data. In March, an Abu Dhabi-based artificial intelligence firm reportedly acquired a stake that valued ByteDance at $220 billion, down from the $300 billion valuation implied by the company’s fall 2022 share buyback. The drop in the Atlassian cofounder and co-CEO’s wealth largely comes from the fall in the company’s stock price this year. After not selling shares for seven years, Farquhar and his co-CEO Mike Cannon-Brookes are slowly lowering their stake in the company through a trading plan filed with the SEC. Since October 2022, when they first started selling, the cofounders have disposed of more than $100 million worth of stock (pre-tax) each. Powell Jobs has investments in Stripe, Handshake and other unicorns spanning every sector from green tech and health tech to media and education. through her Emerson Collective. But much of her wealth is still tied up in shares of Apple and Disney, inherited from her late husband Steve Jobs (d. 2011), which are down 3% and 29%, respectively. The founder of South Korean internet company Kakao, known for its messaging app KakaoTalk and fintech arm Kakao Pay, stepped down as chairman last year amid an antitrust probe and allegations of tax evasion. (Kakao denied the allegations as “baseless,” and they were later dismissed by Korea’s national tax body.) Kim’s wealth is down 45% on the slipping stock values of the Korea-listed Kakao Corp. The Collison brothers cofounded payments processing unicorn Stripe, which peaked in 2021 at a $95 billion valuation. After laying off 1,000 employees in late 2022, Stripe raised $6.5 billion at a $50 billion valuation in March—a 47% haircut. The brothers each own an estimated 11%. Doerr built his wealth through tech investments, getting in early on some of the industry’s biggest players—including Google (stock price: -30% since the 2022 list), Amazon (-37%), and DoorDash (-39%)—through venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins. The wealth of the Snap cofounder and chief technology officer has tumbled along with his company’s stock price. Although it stabilized in early 2023 with some better-than-expected earnings results, Snap stock is still trading at less than one-eighth of its peak price in 2021 and at just over half its $17 IPO price from 2017. His free messaging app Telegram has been a critical source of information—and plenty of disinformation, too—related to the Russia-Ukraine war. Although it offers sponsored messages and paid tiers that generate some revenue, the private company is not profitable and isn't aiming to be. Durov, who has said that “making profits will never be an end goal,” left Russia eight years ago, after he refused to cooperate with the Russian secret service and provide encrypted data of his first social network's users. The Hong Kong billionaire founded artificial intelligence company SenseTime, which went public in a long-delayed IPO in January 2022. Despite the AI boom this year, its shares are down 61% from last year—partially because SenseTime’s share lock-up period expired, allowing early investors to cash out. In 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce put SenseTime on a trade restriction list for its role in enabling human rights violations of the Uyghurs and other Muslim groups in China, a move SenseTime called “deeply disappointing.” 