Increasingly complex equipment and machinery have turned shop  floors into high-tech marvels. Festooned with sensors, dependent on digital, high-cost  and hard at work, these production technologies are growing ever more important  with large, medium and small manufacturers.  Thankfully, tool producers designed many such sophisticated  machines with an eye for easy operation by production associates. But what  about when those high-complexity, high-cost pieces of equipment break down? Who  will fix them? Between the widely reported shortage of skilled maintenance  workers and the increasing sophistication of technology, keeping production  assets up and running is an enormous endeavor—and not one easily achieved.  IndustryWeek recently spoke with three manufacturers,  large and small, to find out more about their maintenance challenges and to  share a few of the tactics they employ to help achieve their uptime goals.  KLN opened a new Tuffy’s Treat Co. manufacturing plant in Delano,  Minnesota, at perhaps the most challenging time possible—December 2020 with  COVID still in full swing. Not surprisingly, the new site, which makes pet treats  and more recently, wet, canned pet food, immediately struggled to hire  qualified employees for production and maintenance roles.  That challenge is ongoing today, particularly in maintenance, and  it has prompted action. While multiskilled individuals are KLN’s preferred hires,  they also are difficult to find, explains Jeff Nevenhoven, maintenance and  reliability manager at the Delano factory. The hiring criteria had to be  expanded.  “We had to start thinking differently [as in] ‘How do we get people  here that can help us and maybe not have everything we would have liked to  have, but who have some very specific skill sets that we can start with and  then grow and develop them?’” he says.  The second hire was a shop teacher from the public school system,  and he has strengths in basic skilled trades such as welding, pipe fitting and  fabricating. He has no automation background. “But we decided we’re going to  bring him on board because we have work, we need that skillset. So we’re  starting to reach out of our comfort zone and look for these pockets, and build  our team that way,” he says.  The company is taking additional steps to meet its maintenance  needs: leveraging partnerships with local contractors and vendors; implementing  condition-based maintenance methodologies (versus calendar-based) to create  more resource capacity by performing maintenance only when conditions show it’s  needed; and flexing shift coverage to address staff shortages.  Perhaps the manufacturer’s biggest undertaking, however, is the  development of a maintenance and reliability community of practice across the  organization. The program is in its infancy, with conversations having kicked  off in the third quarter of 2022. The genesis for developing a community of practice was a desire to  move away from the fix-it-when-it-breaks mentality and “establish something  that is sustainable, that will extend asset useful life,” Nevenhoven explains. He  was hired to add that sensibility to the Delano plant and similar managers were  hired at KLN Brands’ two other businesses—Tuffy’s Pet Foods and Kenny’s Candy  & Confections.  Coupled with sustainability is desire is to operate as one company  rather than three siloed organizations. A recent ERP implementation that has  everyone using the same CMMS module is a step in that direction. Still, the  organization lacks visibility among the business units, and it’s trying to address  that.  “We met recently to take the steps forward… How do we start to  leverage the strengths of each organization and make things visible to each  other, leverage each other, help each other get common practices?” Nevenhoven  says. Ideally, “if I need to find a motor, or a pump, or a gearbox, I have  visibility to what’s in their warehouses. Today there’s no visibility of that.”   Hence the beginnings of a maintenance and reliability community of  practice. In the recent meeting, the team discussed a framework to: “We’re looking at putting that all together to become, in simple  words, one company versus three separate ones, so we can actually help each  other out better,” Nevenhoven says.  The new Tuffy Treat plant in Delano will also host a pilot program,  splitting the maintenance and reliability department into two departments: one focused  on maintenance and the other on reliability. Nevenhoven will oversee the  reliability department.  The idea, he says, is for maintenance to address day-to-day  execution required to keep the plant running, while reliability focuses on  establishing predictive maintenance and building out the CMMS and other  reliability infrastructure. Nevenhoven says it’s an atypical practice to see the maintenance  and reliability departments split up, “especially within a company this small,  but I think there is a lot of promise with it.”  Last year the Alloy Precision Technologies invested  8.5% of its revenue in new capital equipment, and investment routinely ranges  from 4% to 8%, fitting the company’s strategic focus of continuous investment  in state-of-the-art production equipment. Such expenditures mean that the shop floor  is rife with newer production assets. “As the old commercial said, this isn’t your father’s Oldsmobile  anymore,” Canty says. He points to CNC machines as one example, outlining how  they have developed dramatically in the past 30, 20 and even five years in  terms of the breadth and combination of cuts they can perform.  “And that kind of improvement of technology is spreading across  the factory floor in all areas of operations … all of which has to be  maintained in some way,” he notes. Such complexity requires a much higher level of skilled talent on  the maintenance side than he says is being produced today. Canty says, “It’s  less and less typical that you can go to the market or out of a school and find  someone who is very experienced in the modern technologies, or even in the  older technologies, so training internally becomes much more critical.”  Reliance on the equipment manufacturers is another important piece  to gaining technical expertise. Canty is equally concerned about maintenance of an integral part  of modern technologies that you can’t see—the software—and his company is devoting  a lot of attention to that concern. “All of the newer equipment and newer ways  of doing things are being driven by [software] programs, so the number of  programs and different types of programs on different types of equipment are  proliferating on the shop floor,” he says. Moreover, smarter assets are now  equipped to supply information about predictive maintenance, equipment  utilization and other data points, which requires maintenance as well.  The ever-expanding software-driven technologies in manufacturing have  prompted Alloy Precision Technologies to create a two-person, internal IT team,  “which is not common for a company of our size of 100 people,” Canty notes. While  the primary focus of software maintenance is the shop floor, it extends  throughout the organization. The company has embarked on a journey to systemically capture and  document all of its programming and other software-driven tasks so that institutional  knowledge isn’t lost if individuals leave the company or retire. Canty estimates  Alloy Precision Technologies is about a year away from fully encapsulating a  system that is sustainable over time. “I think far too many companies haven’t understood the need for  this going down the road,” Canty says. “Maybe I think it’s a bigger need than  it is. I don’t think so.” The production floor of an automotive manufacturer teems with  every manufacturing technology imaginable. Automotive giants undoubtedly employ  a raft of sophisticated technologies and highly skilled maintenance personnel.  Still, can you ever have too many people engaged in keeping your high-tech  assets up and running?  “We pull technicians off the floor and give them a technical  school background education,” explains Tracey Meeks, operator-driven reliability (ODR)  training/maintenance supervisor. Meeks was tasked with developing the program  about four years ago.  “It’s a video-based learning system,” coupled with hands-on training on  the shop floor, he says. “We sit down, and we show them how to use  screwdrivers, we show them how to use multimeters, we show how to how to clean,  how much grease goes in a bearing, the proper way to route cable and fix loose  components on the machine structure.” Technicians who qualify can then go out onto the production floor  and do minimum repairs without the help of maintenance.   While Meeks  emphasizes that the word “basic” when he describes ODR skills training, the  program has structure around it. Comprised of four levels, topics range from those  already mentioned to basic troubleshooting techniques and even a foundational  electricity course at Level 4. The latter is a nod to automakers’ move into  electric vehicles.  “Not only do  [technicians] build electrical products, but they can also understand the very  basics of how all those components work together to make our vehicle,” says  Meeks.  The philosophy of “train everyone” is working, Meeks says. “Our  Nissan maintenance guys are multicraft. Our guys are robot programmers, they  are conveyor technologists and computer programmers, they do PLCs,” he explains. And yet, in the  past they could be pulled away from highly technical jobs to perform simple  repairs or routine tasks. Moreover, if a technician had to wait on maintenance  personnel to appear for that minor task, equipment downtime could accompany  that wait.   “Those  things are going away now,” Meeks says, as technicians take on simple repairs.  The seasoned maintenance personnel “are allowed to concentrate more … and we’re  making great strides in our maintenance for that reason.” “Great  strides” are measured in a number of ways, including a reduction of what the  automaker calls “short stops,” or short-duration downtime events. Meeks also  cites positive culture change as a benefit.  “We found  out that the maintenance guys are actually happy” to give up the mundane  repairs, while the production workers “want to put their hands on the equipment  … because they feel like they can make a difference for themselves out on the  floor,” according to Meeks.  The program also continues to evolve. “When you launch something  you never really fully see it until after you get it going,” Meeks says. “We  continue to look at [the training] every day and see the things that we can  improve on. Not just my eyes, but we bring in people from other departments  inside Nissan to get their feedback and to see what they might think. We get  the feedback from our employees and our technicians out on the floor, and we  bring in our maintenance department, to see what they think we should do and  let them have a feedback in the way we train our people.” Another measure of success: Nissan is preparing to launch  operator-driven reliability training at its two U.S. assembly facilities.  Long-term demographic data suggests the shortage of skilled  maintenance staff will continue for a long time–perhaps forever. It’s certain,  however, that production assets will only grow more complex. For manufacturers  not yet making efforts to shore up their maintenance and reliability efforts, the  time is now. Don’t let manufacturing technology progress leave you beyond  repair. Bio: Jill Jusko is executive editor for IndustryWeek. She has been writing about manufacturing operations leadership for more than 20 years. Her coverage spotlights companies that are in pursuit of world-class results in quality, productivity, cost and other benchmarks by implementing the latest continuous improvement and lean/Six-Sigma strategies. Jill also coordinates IndustryWeek’s Best Plants Awards Program, which annually salutes the leading manufacturing facilities in North America.  Have a story idea? Send it to [email protected].