After taking the series from Duke over the weekend, Georgia Tech came into their last midweek matchup with a spot in the ACC Tournament already clinched. Still, the Yellow Jackets are trying to make a push to make the NCAA Tournament, and a loss to Mercer would not help that.  Camron Hill took the mound for Georgia Tech and this was the lineup that took the field: 1. 2B- Kristian Campbell 2. CF- Jake DeLeo 3. RF- Stephen Reid 4. IF- Angelo Dispigna 5. 1B- John Geisler 6. DH-Jackson Finley 7. C- Jack Rubenstein 8. 3B- Nicholas Romano 9. SS- Jadyn Jackson Georgia Tech has clinched a spot in the ACC Tournament Georgia Tech Athletics Georgia Tech was able to score first and they didn't even have to get a hit.  Campbell was hit by a pitch to start the game and the DeLeo walked. Dispigna walked with one out and all of a sudden, the bases were loaded. Giesler hit a sac fly to get GT on the board first with a 1-0 lead and then Finley walked to once again load the bases for Georgia Tech. Rubenstein was hit by a pitch and that scored the second run of the game for Georgia Tech.  After two runs on no hits in the top of the inning, Hill held Mercer scoreless in the bottom of the inning.  After a 1-2-3 2nd inning for Georgia Tech, Mercer hit two home runs in two at-bats in the bottom of the 2nd to tie the game. A single and two walks loaded the bases and the Bears took a 3-2 lead with a bases-loaded walk. Georgia Tech entered the 3rd inning trailing.  Reid had a leadoff walk to start the 3rd and then Dispigna doubled to put two runners in scoring position. A groundout from Giesler scored a run for Georgia Tech and tied the game 3-3.  Dalton Smith entered the game for Hill in the bottom of the 3rd and got a quick 1-2-3 inning.  After a scoreless 4th inning from both teams, Mercer had a big 5th inning to take the lead.  Mercer proceeded to hit a two-run home run to take a 5-3 lead and then back-to-back solo home runs made the lead 7-3.  Georgia Tech closed the gap though in the 6th, but due to the weather, it did not matter.  After Tech scored three runs to make it 7-6 in the top of the 6th, the game went into a weather delay with one out and was eventually called.  The loss drops Georgia Tech to 30-22 and clinging to hopes of a birth in the NCAA Tournament. They are likely going to need a series win over Virginia and a good performance in the ACC Tournament.  The final regular season series of the year is this weekend against Virginia. Game one is set for Thursday at 6:00 p.m.  Follow us on social media for the latest on Georgia Tech Athletics! Facebook: All Yellow Jackets Twitter: @AllYellowJacket Follow Jackson on Twitter: @jacksoncaudell Follow Madison on Twitter: @Madison_Meyers7 Follow Matthew on Twitter: @kistner__ See all of the latest Tech News at AllYellowJackets.com Check out the Georgia Tech Homepage Listen to the Goal Line Stand Podcast for the best Georgia Tech and national college football coverage! Where does ESPN rank Georgia Tech's QB situation? Former Notre Dame and Idaho linebacker Paul Moala commits to Georgia Tech Georgia Tech Weekly Recruiting Update: 5/15 Updated ACC Baseball Standings: 5/15 2024 defensive end William Depaepe commits to Georgia Tech LaMiles Brooks is among the top five highest-graded returning safeties according to PFF Georgia Tech quarterback commit Aaron Philo shines at Elite 11 Regional Georgia Tech wins game three and the series vs No. 10 Duke Georgia Tech QB commit Aaron Philo talks everything Georgia Tech at Elite 11 Former Georgia Tech Wide Receiver Malachi Carter signs with the Cincinnati Bengals Jackson Caudell covers Georgia Tech Athletics and the Atlanta Hawks for FanNation