(Bloomberg) -- For Giorgia Meloni, wielding power in Italy now means steering the country’s biggest businesses too. Most Read from Bloomberg America’s Fastest Growing City Is Embracing ‘Yellowstone’ Mania Outsider Milei Upends Argentina’s Election With Primary Win Goldman Pencils In First Fed Rate Cut for Second Quarter of 2024 Zuckerberg Says ‘Time to Move On’ From Musk Cage Fight The Fed Is Playing a Waiting Game to Try to Avoid a Recession The premier’s activism in corporate affairs across the euro-zone’s third-biggest economy is becoming a signature trait, with her version of capitalism crystallizing as one where the government’s role is very much hands-on. From summoning state company chiefs to discuss the exit of middle managers, as she did with network operator Terna SpA recently, to getting involved in phone operator Telecom Italia SpA’s grid sale this week and also trying to grab bank profits, the Meloni approach is more muscular than Italy has seen in decades. Almost a year since winning an election with a vow to avoid irking investors, that message has now been honed: the coalition is sticking with fiscal prudence that keeps bond markets happy, but shareholders can expect less deference. “Only time will tell if she follows up with these dirigiste policies,” said Rosamaria Bitetti, an economist and lecturer at Luiss University in Rome. “The shift raises questions about whether this is a mere summer diversion or is a reflection of her interventionist government’s true intentions.” Meloni’s decision on Thursday to take a 20% stake in Telecom Italia as part of KKR & Co.’s bid for the company is a clear statement of resolve. But the signs have been there all along. The 46-year-old premier is a right-wing politician whose roots are steeped in a tradition of state control of the economy, and ever since taking power she has sought to reshape corporate Italy. The prime minister and her colleagues have changed the heads of multiple state companies including energy giant Enel SpA, and appointed a new Bank of Italy governor too. Part of that was luck because several terms of office were expiring, but the emerging economic narrative of the Meloni government is increasingly one where Italy is open for business, but politicians are in charge. Then there’s the growing presence of her populist deputy premier and League Party leader Matteo Salvini. Since the death of former premier Silvio Berlusconi, who led one of the other main coalition parties, the government is increasingly a double act between Meloni and Salvini that forces her to cater to his populist base. Her distrust of the corporate world and need to work with the League leader was also evident in the 40% levy on Italian banks’ extra profits which was backed Monday night by her cabinet. Salvini presented the tax in a press conference from which Meloni was absent, and the outcome was a market rout that sent lenders’ values tumbling, followed by some backtracking. A clear message sent by the levy, which lets the government replenish state coffers to pay for electoral promises to voters like tax cuts for families, is that if there’s something to pay for, companies can foot the bill. Another telling sign of the Meloni approach was a decree passed alongside the windfall tax that allows the state to block technology transfers to states outside the European Union in strategic sectors like AI, semiconductors, aerospace and energy. While the measure is largely directed at China and concerns of key technology falling into the wrong hands, it’s the sort of tool an interventionist government could use widely even against allies like the US or UK. Even another decision this week to allow the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner to oversee and assist with foreign investments in Italy exceeding €1 billion ($1.1 billion) opens the door to politicians controlling the process. Bitetti at Luiss is worried. The government’s actions “potentially disregard fundamental economic governance principles,” she said. “The current outlook is concerning.” Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek Is the Airbnb Dream Dead? When $1,600 a Night Is a Good Price for a Hotel When the Whole Town Is Out of Office From Pepperoni Math to Nepo Babies, Summer Is for Interns ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.