According to the latest reports, Pakistan Telecommunication Authority recently received 16,195 complaints against different telecom operators and cellular operators in Pakistan. These complaints against Telecom Operators have been received from consumers in the month of February 2023. Reports claim that out of 16k complaints, 15,992 have been resolved which means that 98% of issues have been sorted. It would not be wrong to say that cellular mobile subscribers constitute a large part of the overall telecom subscriber base. That is why a maximum number of complaints belongs to this segment. Reports claim that the total number of complaints against cellular mobile operators by February stood at a figure of 15,700. However, the good piece of info is that out of which 15,539 complaints were addressed. According to the PTA data: Other than this, PTA also received 128 complaints against basic telephony. It is being told that out of which 118 were addressed during February. In this way, almost 92% of complaints have been resolved. Last but not least, 355 complaints were received against ISPs, of which 324 were addressed (91%). The number of complaints were not less but the good part is that maximum number of the complaints have been resolved by the telecom operators. It’s good to know that CMOs are trying their best to improve users’ experience and addressing their problems fastly as well. PTA Taxes Portal Find PTA Taxes on All Phones on a Single Page using the PhoneWorld PTA Taxes Portal My mobile Non PTA please convert my mobile PTA thankyou We can’t do that. You will have to pay tax for that. Sir mare sat nokia 106 he jeska 1 sim pta active or 2 sim active nahe he me ne jb lea ta 2no sim pta active ta Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Please enable JavaScript to submit this form. Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  Notify me of follow-up comments by email.  Notify me of new posts by email.  

  Δ  PhoneWorld is the most popular news and analysis website in Pakistan. It focuses on the mobile ecosystem and covers the latest news and hot topics. We offer comprehensive coverage of industry-related topics, including policy, regulations, operators, distribution, application development, devices, and academia. Readmore 
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Contact Us Session expired Please log in again.
The login page will open in a new tab. After logging in you can close it and return to this page.