4.7 A big sign-up bonus, high rewards and flexible redemption make this card worth the annual fee.  Annual fee $95 Rewards rate 2x-5x Bonus offer Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that’s equal to $1,000 in travel. Intro APR N/A Ongoing APR APR: 19.99%-29.99% Variable APR Cash Advance APR: 29.99%, Variable Balance transfer fee Balance Transfer Fee applies to balances transferred at a promotional rate Foreign transaction fee None High rewards rate Flexible rewards redemption Has annual fee Requires good/excellent credit The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is one of the most popular credit cards on the market — and for good reason. Unlike the airline-branded cards it was designed to compete against, it pays a high rewards rate on every purchase (not just on travel spending), and you can use its rewards to pay for any travel expense, without any restrictions on when you travel, which airline you fly or which hotel you stay at. Throw in a big bonus for new cardholders, and it's no wonder this card is a favorite of so many people. If you want travel rewards that are easy to earn, easy to understand and nearly effortless to redeem, you aren't going to find many travel credit cards better than this one. Card type: Travel. Annual fee: $95 (see rates and fees). Sign-up bonus: Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that’s equal to $1,000 in travel. Rewards: 2 miles per dollar spent on purchases.  5 miles per dollar on hotels and car rentals booked through Capital One Travel. Redemption options: Use miles to book travel through Capital One at a value of 1 cent per mile. Redeem miles for statement credit against travel purchases at a value of 1 cent per mile. Transfer miles to more than 15 partner airline and hotel programs. Per-mile value depends on the transfer partner and how you redeem the transferred miles. Redeem miles for gift cards. The redemption value varies between 1-1.25 miles per cent. Interest rate: The ongoing APR is 19.99%-29.99% Variable APR. Foreign transaction fees: None. Other benefits: (Note: Benefits may change over time.) Credit of up to $100 for the application fee for Global Entry or TSA Precheck when you pay with the card. Travel accidental insurance for no extra charge when you use the card to pay for your travel bookings. Terms apply. Rental car coverage. Extended warranty on eligible items. While most branded airline cards earn only 1 point per dollar on most purchases other than those you make with the airline, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card keeps it simple. You’ll earn 5 miles per dollar spent on hotels and car rentals booked through Capital One Travel and an unlimited 2 miles per dollar on all other purchases. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card gives you a head start on your next trip with its bonus offer for new cardholders: Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that’s equal to $1,000 in travel. Capital One's rewards program gives you several ways to use your miles for travel: Redeem rewards as a statement credit. With this option, you book travel however you want, then redeem miles for statement credit for some or all of the cost. Miles are worth 1 cent apiece when redeemed — and there's no minimum redemption amount. That's a welcome difference from some other cards, which have minimums as high as $100. Any expense that Capital One considers "travel" is eligible for redemption. This includes not only flights and hotel stays, but also "rail lines, car rental agencies, limousine services, bus lines, cruise lines, taxi cabs, travel agents and time shares," according to the Capital One website. Book through the issuer's travel center. This online portal offers flights, hotels, rental cars and vacation packages. You can pay upfront with your miles, at a rate of 1 cent per mile. Transfer miles to partners. Capital One lets you transfer your miles to the loyalty programs of a number of airline and hotel partners. Airlines Aeromexico (1:1 ratio). Air Canada (1:1 ratio). Air France-KLM (1:1 ratio). Avianca (1:1 ratio). British Airways (1:1 ratio). Cathay Pacific (1:1 ratio). Emirates (1:1 ratio). Etihad (1:1 ratio). EVA (2:1.5 ratio). Finnair (1:1 ratio). Qantas (1:1 ratio). Singapore Airlines (1:1 ratio). TAP Air Portugal (1:1 ratio). Turkish Airlines (1:1 ratio). Hotels Accor (2:1 ratio). Choice Privileges Hotels (1:1 ratio). Wyndham Rewards (1:1 ratio). The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card offers additional benefits frequent travelers will enjoy: A statement credit of up to $100 for the application fee for Global Entry or TSA Precheck. The credit is available once every four years. Premium benefits when you book a hotel stay through Capital One's Lifestyle Collection like a $50 experience credit, complimentary WIFI and room upgrades when available. Trip protection including rental car coverage, travel accident insurance and round-the-clock travel assistance services if your card is lost or stolen. No foreign transaction fees for overseas purchases. (Note: Benefits may change over time.) » MORE: Capital One credit cards mobile app review The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a solid choice for most travelers. But if you want heftier perks, it's worth considering the card's higher-end sibling, the $395-annual-fee Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card (see rates and fees). Both cards earn similar rewards on most purchases and offer a statement credit to cover the cost of TSA PreCheck or Global Entry. But the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card makes up for its higher annual fee with some significant perks:  Unlimited access to Capital One Lounges and more than 1,300 Priority Pass lounges.  Up to $300 annual credit for bookings made through Capital One Travel.  10,000 bonus miles every account anniversary. It might feel a bit off-putting to pay hundreds of dollars a year just to carry a credit card. But as long as you don't mind booking travel through the issuer, the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card's perks easily offset the higher annual fee.  For travelers who like to squeeze every last drop of value out of loyalty programs, the growing roster of transfer partners for the the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is appealing. You can now transfer your Venture miles to more than a dozen airline partners — but all are non-U.S. carriers. For those just dipping their toe into transfer options, sending their miles off to a foreign carrier may be a bit daunting. For these travel hackers, the Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card is a better choice. First, there's an option to transfer points to participating frequent traveler programs at a 1:1 ratio and those programs include domestic carriers United, Southwest and JetBlue, as well as the Marriott, Hyatt and IHG hotels programs. You can also use your points to book a trip directly with Chase's travel tool. If you choose this route, your points rise in value from 1 cent apiece to 1.25 cents. The Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card also offers a great sign-up bonus: Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. It earns bonus rewards in a variety of popular spending categories, including dining and travel. The annual fee is $95. If you want to use your miles for cash back or a statement credit for non-travel purchases, your miles are worth only half as much as if you were to redeem them for travel. This can be an issue if you don’t travel often and want to turn your rewards into money in your pocket. You may get greater value out of a cash-back card like the Wells Fargo Active Cash® Card, which offers 2% cash back on all purchases with a $0 annual fee. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card has an annual fee of $95 (see rates and fees). While this is typical for travel rewards cards, that’s not comforting news to anyone trying to keep credit card costs down. The $0-annual-fee Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card earns 3 points per dollar on several popular spending categories:  Restaurants. Travel and transit. Gas stations and EV stations. Popular streaming services. Select phone plans.  If you're serious about travel, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card should be on your radar. With one of the highest sign-up bonuses and best ongoing rewards rates on the market, it can go toe to toe with any other travel card. It's especially a good option if you want travel rewards without the need to navigate a complicated redemption system. Still unsure about whether this card, or any travel card, is what you need? Peruse our best credit cards page for options across categories. • • • For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the above benefits are provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. With no annual fee, this card gives you 1.5 points for every $1 you spend. It comes with a sign-up bonus and points are redeemable for statement credit against any travel expense. NerdWallet reviews credit cards with an eye toward both the quantitative and qualitative features of a card. Quantitative features are those that boil down to dollars and cents, such as fees, interest rates, rewards (including earning rates and redemption values) and the cash value of benefits and perks. Qualitative factors are those that affect how easy or difficult it is for a typical cardholder to get good value from the card. They include such things as the ease of application, simplicity of the rewards structure, the likelihood of using certain features, and whether a card is well-suited to everyday use or is best reserved for specific purchases. Our star ratings serve as a general gauge of how each card compares with others in its class, but star ratings are intended to be just one consideration when a consumer is choosing a credit card. Learn how NerdWallet rates credit cards. With the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card, you earn 2 miles per dollar spent on all purchases. You can redeem those miles (at a value of 1 cent apiece) for any travel purchase — flights on any airline, stays at any hotel, auto rentals from any agency, and so on. Unlike with points from airline or hotel loyalty programs, there are no restrictions or blackout dates. Book travel however you want, and then use your miles to pay for it. Miles earned on the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card are worth 1 cent apiece when redeemed for travel. That means you get an effective rewards rate of 2% on all purchases. You can use Capital One miles to pay for flights on any airline, but you also have the option of transferring those miles to about a dozen airline loyalty programs and combining them with frequent-flyer rewards earned in those programs. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card has been issued as both a Visa and a Mastercard. For new applications through NerdWallet, it will be a Mastercard. You’ll need at least good credit to qualify for the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. Generally speaking, “good credit” is defined as a score of at least 690. But a credit score alone isn’t enough to qualify for any credit card. Issuers take into account your income, existing debts and other information. Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105