
ATA's annual awards recognize OD as the 2023 top US motor carrier in both safety and security
 
Old Dominion Freight Line (OD) was presented with two prestigious awards by the American Trucking Associations (ATA) – the President's Trophy and the Excellence in Security Award. The President's Trophy is given to motor carriers in the United States with an outstanding safety record – OD was ranked at the top for the "Over 100 Million Miles" category. The Excellence in Security Award is judged by commercial vehicle enforcement personnel and given to one US motor carrier.

 
A team of OD personnel accepted trucking's top honors on April 5 at the ATA's conference in Minneapolis on behalf of OD's more than 24,000 employees, including 12,000+ truck drivers.

 
"We are resoundingly proud of these accomplishments by the entire OD Family of employees," said Chris Brooks, Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Safety. "We want to thank the ATA for recognizing OD with the President's Trophy and Excellence in Security Award and congratulate all of our OD people for their unwavering commitment to safety and security on the job."

 
"Safety is a daily commitment that our drivers, dockworkers, and other team members take seriously so we can deliver our customers' promises," said Steven Garrish, Vice President of Safety and Compliance. "This award recognizes both the big and small things we must do to be safe on the highway and in our service centers. Our people, led by the safety leadership team, are committed to upholding our safety standards, programs, processes, and procedures."

 
"We invest many resources to protect our customers' shipments and ensure that they are delivered on-time and in-full," said Barry Craver, Vice President of Business Processes and Innovation, who leads OD's security efforts. "We're honored to be recognized with the Excellence in Security Award and thank the entire OD Family of employees for their commitment to upholding our security and claims standards."

 
Carriers are selected for the President's Trophy by submitting independently verified safety and compliance data. The ATA then evaluates the carrier's overall safety record, programs and community outreach, and commercial vehicle enforcement personnel. Annual winners can only reapply for the award after a two-year waiting period.

 
OD was also recognized by the ATA with several other 2023 safety awards, including:

 
OD was last recognized with the ATA President's Trophy Award in 2016 and the Excellence in Security Award in 2021.

 
For more information, visit odfl.com.

 
About Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.
 
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. is one of the largest North American less-than-truckload ("LTL") motor carriers and provides regional, inter-regional and national LTL services through a single integrated, union-free organization. Our service offerings, which include expedited transportation, are provided through an expansive network of service centers located throughout the continental United States. The Company also maintains strategic alliances with other carriers to provide LTL services throughout North America. In addition to its core LTL services, the Company offers a range of value-added services including container drayage, truckload brokerage and supply chain consulting.

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230406005003/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.