For about the price of a typical single-family home in Mississippi, ultra-rich adventurers can spend three weeks traversing the world via private jet thanks on an Abercrombie & Kent "air cruise." Founded in 1962 by legendary globetrotter Geoffrey Kent, the luxury travel company has a long history of creating premium experiences targeting high-paying customers.  A&K eventually got into the private jet business with its inaugural "Royal Air Tour" in 1989, and, in 2013, it pioneered around-the-world private air tours with a 26-day trip to places like the Amazon and Samoa. The trip cost $105,000 and used a specially-modified Boeing 737. "There are a lot of wealthy people today who have the money to travel and want to see the world," Kent told NBC News in 2013. "They are money rich and time poor. This is a great way to see as much of the world as possible in a short amount of time. And to really enjoy it." Today, A&K's air adventures use a customized Boeing 757 fitted with 48 first class seats, each with fully lie-flat capabilities. Current tours start at $135,000. It's a pricey trip, but it's also all-inclusive. The six-figure price tag includes hotels like the Ritz-Carlton, all of the private flights, and activities like massages, snorkeling, safaris, and private culinary lessons. Here's what people can expect onboard A&K's glamorous 757 private plane. Departing in February 2024, the over three-week "wildlife safari" tour circumnavigates the globe starting in Portland, Oregon, and eventually makes its way westward toward Boston. Because the Boeing 757 is not built for extended long-haul travel, it will need to stop for fuel in between cities, like on A&K's first leg from Portland to Japan. This is similar to Northern Pacific Airways' plan to fly from the US mainland to Asia via Anchorage, Alaska, using a 757 narrowbody. The latter, which departs in September 2023, is solely focused on Africa and costs about $135,000 per person, but the waitlist suggests these pricey tours are not suffering from a shortage of demand. The 23-year-old plane has flown for several operators before Icelandair, including American Trans Air and the United Nations Humanitarian Air Service. This includes route planning, staffing pilots and flight attendants, and organizing catering. Similar to Donald Trump's fancy Boeing 757 private jet that boasts a giant "T" on the tail, A&K's logo is prominent. It's also hard to miss the giant "Abercrombie & Kent" name painted across the fuselage. Guests will also find reading lights, overhead bins, and an A&K-branded toiletry kit. The 19-inch wide seats, privacy wings, and six-inch armrest provides generous space and comfort. In between each ottoman is storage for things like books, cups, and electronics. Narrowbody airliners rarely have lie-flat business class, though carriers like American Airlines and JetBlue Airways have introduced the cabin on Airbus planes. Guests in the window will have to climb over their aisle neighbor to get up, which can be even more difficult when the lie-flat bed is extended. However, A&K's seats will typically be occupied by family or friends, so it's not as much of an issue compared to sitting next to a stranger. This is in lieu of seatback screens, which are typically fitted into airline international business class cabins but can add costly weight to the plane. According to A&K, an onboard chef manages the inflight culinary program with meals served between destinations. The plane also features perks like an espresso machine. Before this year's waitlist, the company told ITR last year that its summer 2022 global itineraries were also sold out. In general, private aviation has been booming since the pandemic as deep-pocket travelers flock to the comforts and conveniences offered by private jets compared to commercial airliners. Like A&K, the company offers an all-business cabin, but Safrans du Monde's widebody plane allows it to accommodate up to 100 people and has room for couches. La Compagnie already offers year-round flights on all-business class Airbus A321neos between Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey and Paris Orly Airport. A one-day excursion, which includes 10 hours of flying roundtrip, starts at $14,500 and guests will spend just three hours on Antarctica. But, the unique experience includes landing the giant widebody on White Desert's private runway made of ice. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to