GM thinks it can make better use of its data than Apple can. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 When it comes to Apple CarPlay, most carmakers have already added it to their list of features. But GM shocked everyone recently when it announced that its future electric vehicles won't be adding support for CarPlay, and now we might know why. According to one new report, GM isn't the only company that has concerns about how Apple has placed itself between the car and its driver, with a tug-of-war over the human-machine interface (HMI) thought to be underway. The report claims that GM and others are looking for ways to produce their own in-car operating system that can take back control, with software from Google and Amazon just some of the options. And there might be a secret weapon as well. DigiTimes reports that companies like GM believe that they might be able to offer something that Apple and CarPlay can't — a deeper integration with the car itself. And that's most keenly felt when it comes to navigation and, particularly, EV mileage and charging. "Automakers have discovered an important trump card, namely navigation and mileage calculation," the report explains. "These two figures can vary widely due to ambient temperature, tire pressure, and other factors. To calculate things like the route to the charging stations, the OS needs to be able to obtain data on vehicle battery status and more." The report goes on to explain that because carmakers control the required data they can make better use of it than companies like Apple. And with carmakers concerned that iPhone owners will come to expect an iPhone-like experience from here on out, GM is the first to choose to ditch CarPlay while it still can. Tesla is one example of a company that has steadfastly refused to add CarPlay support and that now seems unlikely to change. If your car doesn't have CarPlay you can consider adding it yourself, of course. There are plenty of aftermarket CarPlay receivers available assuming your car has somewhere to install it. iMore offers spot-on advice and guidance from our team of experts, with decades of Apple device experience to lean on. Learn more with iMore! Oliver Haslam has written about Apple and the wider technology business for more than a decade with bylines on How-To Geek, PC Mag, iDownloadBlog, and many more. He has also been published in print for Macworld, including cover stories. At iMore, Oliver is involved in daily news coverage and, not being short of opinions, has been known to 'explain' those thoughts in more detail, too.

Having grown up using PCs and spending far too much money on graphics card and flashy RAM, Oliver switched to the Mac with a G5 iMac and hasn't looked back. Since then he's seen the growth of the smartphone world, backed by iPhone, and new product categories come and go. Current expertise includes iOS, macOS, streaming services, and pretty much anything that has a battery or plugs into a wall. Oliver also covers mobile gaming for iMore, with Apple Arcade a particular focus. He's been gaming since the Atari 2600 days and still struggles to comprehend the fact he can play console quality titles on his pocket computer. People still hate their car's infotainment system but love CarPlay Rivian's CEO says they're never adopting CarPlay, and I think that's the right move These new Apple Park FaceTime backgrounds in the latest macOS Sequoia beta let you get up close and personal with Apple's HQ iMore is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 