Business By  Arcelia MartinBusiness Reporter By  Arcelia MartinBusiness Reporter 6:00 AM on Sep 29, 2023 CDT Dallas-based Texas Instruments and Taiwanese-owned GlobiTech are in line for almost $3 billion in property tax breaks that the city of Sherman, the local school district and others gave up to lure semiconductor and silicon wafer factories. Texas Instruments stands to save $2.36 billion on its property taxes over 35 years as a part of an economic incentive deal for a manufacturing campus with four facilities and 3,000 new workers to make semiconductor chips amid a worldwide shortage of the critical computer components, said Good Jobs First research analyst Jacob Whiton, who has followed the recent surge in federal, state and local subsidies for the semiconductor industry. GlobiTech, which announced it was building its Sherman factory in June 2022, landed a package of tax breaks worth $570 million over 43 years for a semiconductor device plant expected to generate about 1,500 jobs, according to the government incentives watchdog group. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Sherman area officials didn’t need to forgo nearly $3 billion in taxes over the next four decades to land the manufacturing plants, Whiton said, who tracks and analyzes economic incentives. “You’re less than an hour from the corporate headquarters,” Whiton said. “You’re less than an hour from their newest fab in Richardson. So was it really credible the idea that they were ever going to build this outside of Texas?” Sherman’s economic chief and a Texas Instruments spokeswoman said the technology company was seriously considering locating the $30 billion project in another area, including discussions to build in Singapore. The massive tax break packages are just the latest efforts that politicians are making in the growing arms race to bring jobs and economic prosperity to their districts, including high-profile efforts to attract companies such as Amazon and Tesla, automotive factories and electric vehicle battery plants. Regardless, politicians point to how the plants will spur the construction of new homes and businesses in the area and attract new residents, bringing more tax revenue into the region. The level of excitement about the two companies’ presence in Sherman has exploded in a way the city hasn’t seen in decades, Sherman Economic Development Corp. president Kent Sharp said. Sharp considers the money allocated to the two companies from the city, county and school district and college not as subsidies, but as investments in the area’s economic future. “States and cities and governments around the world that you see that are successful are making the same types of government investments into the private sector world to lure companies to their area,” Sharp said. Production of semiconductors, the tiny chips that power computers and electronics, is in high demand as supply chains recover from a turbulent few years alongside a global chip shortage that has slowed the production of automobiles and anything else with the ubiquitous computer components inside. Business leaders and elected officials alike point to domestic chip production as a top priority in establishing self-reliance as geopolitical issues tense and advancing the nation’s global leadership in technologies. The breakdown of state and local property tax savings or refunds for Texas Instruments totals $67 million a year, according to a Good Jobs First analysis of Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts records. Sherman ISD offered TI $954 million from 2025-2060, the City of Sherman $741 million, Grayson County $571 million, and Grayson College $91 million. GlobiTech stands to save $13 million a year from 2027 to 2069. Sherman ISD offered GlobiTech $221 million, the City of Sherman offered $193 million, Grayson County offered $134 million, and Grayson College offered $22 million. These numbers don’t include federal funding either of these companies may have received through the CHIPS and Science Act. The congressional statute provides roughly $280 billion in new funding to boost domestic research and manufacturing of semiconductors. Construction of new manufacturing facilities across the U.S. increased by 116% in 2021, according to the White House. GlobiTech was awarded a $15 million economic incentive grant from the Texas Enterprise Fund for the $5 billion plant. GlobalWafers also received a $20 million grant and more than a $14 million discounted land sale from the Sherman Economic Development Corporation. Both companies are also receiving city water and wastewater discounts. Texas Instruments is in the process of applying for CHIPS Act grants, said Ellen Fishpaw, the company’s media relations director. The funding will be meaningful to its manufacturing operations in Texas and Utah, Fishpaw said. GlobiTech, or its parent company GlobalWafers, did not respond to inquiries about the subsidies they received nor whether they applied for CHIPS funding. Texas Instruments said it would spend $30 billion on the four new wafer plants. Production is slated to begin as early as 2025. “These incentives are considered post-performance, so TI will only receive them as we reach job creation and capital investment milestones,” Fishpaw said. Gov. Greg Abbott said Texas continues to attract and support world-class manufacturers. “GlobalWafers’ ongoing partnership with the City of Sherman, which was initiated with GlobiTech, will create more than a thousand new jobs for the region and invest billions of dollars into our state’s economy, boosting Texas’s global position in the semiconductor industry amid a worldwide chip shortage,” Abbott said in a statement. Historically, Asia has manufactured 80% of semiconductors. The United States’ global share of semiconductors produced stateside has declined from 37% in 1990 to 12% in 2022, according to Site Selection Group. TI underwent a competitive global site selection process to determine the best location for a multi-fab manufacturing site before deciding on Sherman, Fishpaw said. It considered building a site in Singapore and actively engaged with the Economic Development Board of Singapore, according to a certificate for limitation on appraised property value between the company and Sherman ISD. Without the incentives, Sherman officials worried TI would take Singapore’s offer, Sharp said. In TI’s application, it outlined that Singapore would offer substantial benefits in the form of reduced income taxes, reduced, property taxes, grants for investments in manufacturing assets, employee training programs and incentives in respect of the cost of site selection and leasing of facilities. But often, Whiton said, companies are paying lip service to a competition between places. “Top line for us is state and local governments, given the scale of federal support for this industry, do not need to be shelling out this kind of money,” Whiton said. Arcelia Martin, Business Reporter. Arcelia reports on equity and economic topics across North Texas' diverse communities. Before joining The Dallas Morning News in 2022, she covered housing, homelessness and real estate at The Tennessean in Nashville. She is a graduate of Gonzaga University and Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. 