 Here’s a list of recent holes-in-one and other accomplishments by Central New York golfers: Bill Benderski, Aug. 30, on the 192-yard No.11 hole at Westvale Golf Club using a 3-hybrid. Witnessed by Jim McNamara, Jim Nichols and Tim Capra. John Graves, Aug. 28, on the 135-yard No. 9 hole at WaNoa using a 9-iron. Witnessed by Tammy Ballard and Kaleigh Graves. Dalton Murray, Aug. 27, on the 114-yard No. 18 hole at West Hill using a sand wedge. Witnessed by John Murray. Dave Schmidt, Aug. 16, on the 130-yard No. 7 hole at Radisson Greens using a pitching wedge. Witnessed by Rod Mayette. Michael Mangano, Aug. 5, on the No. 17 hole at Foxfire using a 9-iron. Witnessed by Ryan Beaury, Justin Taylor and Leo Johnson. Bob Raddant, age 80, shot a 69 at the Ravenwood Golf Club on Aug. 4. Witnessed by Roman Szul, Robert Mearon and Mark Toscano. Editor’s note The Post-Standard and syracuse.com will recognize three special golf accomplishments during the season: holes-in-one, double eagles and shoot your age (18-hole scores that match or are below a golfer’s age). Send details by email to Pat Spadafore: pspadafore@syracuse.com. Please include the name of the golfer, date, hole number, yardage, course name, club used and names of witnesses. For authenticity, it is preferred that the reports come from the golf course. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices