Patriots 53-man roster projection: Have Pats been hiding Cunningham? originally appeared on NBC Sports Boston Cutdown day eve has arrived, folks. Teams need to trim their rosters to 53 players by Tuesday at 4 p.m. ET, and the Patriots already got started Sunday by releasing 11 players. Here's our final projection for who will remain on the 53-man roster past Tuesday. My only lingering concern here is that Bill Belichick may have tried to keep Malik Cunningham's quarterback ability out of sight these last few weeks. If he wants to be able to waive Cunningham and get him onto the practice squad, limiting the quarterback film Cunningham was able to post this summer would be one way to do it. 🔊 Patriots Talk: Should Patriots sound the backup alarm on Bailey Zappe? | Listen & Subscribe | Watch on YouTube Remember, the Patriots were willing to pay $200,000 guaranteed for Cunningham as an undrafted player. That would suggest there was at least one other team interested in him... and interested in paying him a not-so-insignificant amount for someone not drafted. Any chance that team would want to claim Cunningham if waived? If it were me? I wouldn't risk it. Keep him as a No. 3 quarterback and develop him. But I'm thinking the Patriots may treat it differently. Do I think the Patriots would like to keep Ty Montgomery and J.J. Taylor around? I do. Especially now that they've traded away Pierre Strong. But do I think the Patriots believe either Taylor or Montgomery would be grabbed by another club if let go this week? Of that I'm less sure. Just because they keep two backs on the initial roster doesn't mean those will be the only ones available to them. My guess is Taylor would get the game-day call-up if he gets through waivers and lands on the practice squad. Montgomery has missed so much time this summer, it might be a lot to ask him to contribute in any meaningful way early. No changes here since the last time around. Kayshon Boutte's three snaps played in the preseason finale -- combined with Tyquan Thornton and Pop Douglas' injuries suffered in Green Bay -- seemed to indicate his spot is secured. This is another thin spot, but another spot where it seems like the third player on the depth chart would be one who could return to the club after the initial cut down to 53 players. Matt Sokol seems like the next man up here if Henry or Gesicki (who shed his red non-contact jersey Sunday) get dinged up. It wouldn't surprise me if the Patriots were scouring the waiver wire -- or some last-minute trade possibilities -- at this spot. Massive group here. But Wheatley and Lowe are keepers after they were acquired via trade Sunday. Perhaps the overstocking here is an indication that Reiff's injury -- suffered in Tennessee on Friday -- could keep him out a while. You wanna get nuts? Let's get nuts. If there's one coach in the NFL who'd be willing to hold onto two kickers on his initial 53-man roster, wouldn't it be Bill Belichick? He recently highlighted the competition between Ryland and Folk, complimenting both. And Folk hasn't done anything to lose his job. Could see Belichick wanting to give his rookie a little time to get comfortable -- assuming Ryland is comfortable with a veteran kicker in the locker room -- while allowing the rookie to handle kickoff duties. In my opinion, unlike quarterback, tight end or running back, releasing one of these two would result in that player getting scooped up fairly quickly. With Carl Davis out, that leaves room for the team to hold onto a promising second-year player in Sam Roberts, who has done nothing but get better since arriving from Northwest Missouri State. In a league where teams can never have enough talented defensive linemen, Roberts is ascending. Standard group here. Anfernee Jennings has impressed this preseason with his early-down work and should hold onto a gig. The others are locks. This unit looks thin. But when you factor in all the safeties used at the linebacker level, along with the fact that Calvin Munson and Chris Board are included here in the "specialist" category, then the Patriots should be able to get away with this group the way it stands. Of course, there should be a p-squad addition or two here -- make the most of those 16 non-active-roster spots -- for depth. This unit could also include Mapu, although I feel as though it's more likely he sees time as a sub linebacker than an every-down safety early in his career. There's no obvious Devin McCourty replacement here, but they'll be deployed in a variety of two-high-safety coverages on the back end that could help them disguise their intentions on a snap-to-snap basis. Isaiah Bolden looked poised to make a push for a roster spot before the second preseason game, when his night was ended by a scary-looking concussion. Christian Gonzalez and Jonathan Jones have been banged up lately, but Jones (who returned to practice Sunday) told reporters over the weekend that his goal was to be ready to play Week 1. If Jack Jones is looking headed for league discipline stemming from his offseason arrest, perhaps the team would consider hanging onto Shaun Wade to give itself a boundary option with some length on the 53-man roster. That's a spot within this position group that looks relatively thin at the moment. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there’s a possibility we see pro baseball players participating in the 2028 Summer Olympics, the Braves and Reds taking their game next year to the racetrack and make their picks for The Good, The Bad and The Uggla. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman.