Photo: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images These are the stories making headlines in fashion on Tuesday. The RealReal announces star-studded celebrity closet sale for national consignment monthAs part of its recently-announced Consign Commitment, The RealReal put together a star-studded closet sale with items from Kate Moss, Julianne Moore, Tessa Thompson, Sophia Bush, Laura Harrier, Lake Bell, Annabelle Dexter-Jones, Meena Harris and more during National Consignment Month. The Consign Commitment pledges consumers to consign one out every five items in their closets, to help promote sustainability in fashion. Along with the closet sale, which will feature pieces from nearly 20 actors, models, activists and tastemakers, TheRealReal will make a $25,000 donation to environmental charity Conservation International. {Fashionista inbox} Photo: Courtesy of Half Magic Half Magic launches "Priscilla"-inspired makeup setIn honor of the upcoming film "Priscilla," directed by Sofia Coppola, A24 has teamed up with Half Magic to release a limited-edition makeup set, inspired by Priscilla Presley. The beauty brand, founded by Euphoria makeup artist Donni Davy, put together a trio of products to help achieve that perfect Priscilla-approved eyeliner wing, including lengthening mascara and a handheld wing tool. Shop the set, which will retail for $49, at Half Magic and Ulta now. {Fashionista inbox} VS & Pink Adaptive. Photo: Courtesy of VS&Co.   View the 7 images of this gallery on the original article  Victoria's Secret, Pink release adaptive lines for the first time everAfter an inclusive runway event, Victoria's Secret and Pink launched of VS & PINK Adaptive, their first intimate lines for women with disabilities. The collections were put together using direct feedback, testing and involvement from people with disabilities, ensuring that the pieces are inclusive and authentic to all different body types. Offered in a variety of shades and prints, the adaptive collections feature magnetic closures for ease, sensory-friendly fabric, fully adjustable and convertible front straps, as well as period panties and more. {Fashionista inbox} Dauphinette introduces its debut fragranceCurated by designer Olivia Cheng, Dauphinette's first-ever fragrance, 369, is now available. Blending together notes of lemon, fig and tomato leaf, the scent is described as Cheng's personal interpretation of guiltlessness, her own attempt "to trap her hopes of self-actualization inside of a tight glass bottle." Available on dauphinette.com, 369 retails for $36 and $130 for the travel-size and 50ml bottles, respectively. {Fashionista inbox} Saks x Brunello Cucinelli windows. Photo: Courtesy of Brunello Cucinelli  View the 7 images of this gallery on the original article  Brunello Cucinelli is taking over Saks, launching fragranceSaks Fifth Avenue and Brunello Cucinelli are celebrating 25 years of collaboration with a series of special partnerships including: an exclusive men's and women's capsule collection (available here), a visual takeover of the New York City flagship with immersive installations and window displays, and the exclusive launch of the Italian brand's first-ever fragrance line. There will also be a private event to celebrate the collab. {Fashionista inbox} Please note: Occasionally, we use affiliate links on our site. This in no way affects our editorial decision-making. Never miss the latest fashion industry news. Sign up for the Fashionista daily newsletter. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.