Leer en español Corrections & Clarifications: A previous version of this article included an incorrect reference to Super Bowl 57. A panel of law enforcement officials at the local, state and federal level gathered at the Phoenix Convention Center on Tuesday to lay out how they plan to keep the Valley safe ahead of and during Super Bowl 57. Cathy Lanier, the NFL’s chief security officer, noted that no known, specific or credible threats to the game and related events existed and the public would notice a heightened security presence during such gatherings. Lanier said that during the past 18 months, more than 40 law enforcement agencies were involved in planning security efforts to ensure fan experiences remained safe and convenient. She stressed that such inter-agency coordination was imperative to ensure venues and events remained safe and secure. That said, Lanier noted that the Valley will see increased traffic — both vehicular and pedestrian — as Super Bowl Sunday approaches and to plan accordingly if one’s attending the game or related event. Lanier reminded people that the NFL’s clear bag policy pertains to the Super Bowl as well. Bags cannot exceed 12 inches by 6 inches by 12 inches. She also recommended patrons review the NFL’s list of prohibited items, which ranges from firearms and alcohol to frisbees and pom poms. “Leave your drones, umbrellas, selfie sticks and weapons of any kind at home,” Lanier said. She added that all game tickets will need to be downloaded to cellphones beforehand to be scanned on game day. Lanier also urged drone owners to avoid operating their drones near the Super Bowl or any related events between Thursday and Sunday, as they are designated “No Drone Zones” and offenders could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. When asked if law enforcement agencies would monitor people using facial-recognition technology, Lanier refused to say whether agencies were using such technology but acknowledged that agencies had deployed many surveillance cameras to increase situational awareness. U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas lauded the partnership among law enforcement agencies across the spectrum and assured the public that everyone and everything will be monitored and vetted at the Super Bowl, while echoing Lanier’s point that law enforcement had not identified any active or credible threats. Personnel with the department’s Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office have tested the air to make sure it is safe from biological or chemical threats. Ken Hunter, active director for the Arizona Department of Public Safety, said the agency expects about 100,000 travelers to visit the Valley for the Super Bowl and surrounding events. Hunter urged everyone to plan their trips accordingly. “The highways are going to be busy,” Hunter said. “The roadways are going to be busy. So if you could pack a couple things for us, pack some extra patience and time to get to where you’re going.” Hunter also advised people to have a designated driver, use public transportation or use a rideshare app if they plan on drinking alcohol or other substances that might impair their ability to drive. Interim Phoenix police Chief Michael Sullivan said many of the agency’s approximately 2,600 sworn personnel are working long hours, including the department’s human trafficking task force as mega events such as the Super Bowl can lead to an influx of people — including minors — being trafficked. “This is a chance to be able to make sure that we can educate people about the horrors of human trafficking,” Sullivan said. “And we’ll continue to do that work every day, whether it’s this week or the weeks after the Super Bowl as well.” An organization called “It's A Penalty” shared sobering human trafficking statistics last month, such as that one-third of detected trafficking victims in 2021 were children according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. The organization urged people and businesses to look out for signs of potential human trafficking, which included someone not having control of identification or travel documents, carrying multiple cellular phones or hotel cards or a person appearing to be monitored by another when talking to someone else. Kevin Quon, a spokesperson for the Scottsdale Police Department, told The Arizona Republic that having the Super Bowl coincide with Phoenix Open provided a unique challenge for the department. However, he said he felt extensive planning and support from other Valley agencies will allow residents and travelers alike to enjoy events in Scottsdale and across the Phoenix area without too many disruptions. “There may be road closures, there may be traffic delays, but that won’t change the service that we give our community,” Quon said. Lanier also reiterated that anyone who notices something suspicious or out of place should call 911 no matter how insignificant the matter might seem. “Let the local law enforcement go and investigate that and make sure it’s not anything for anyone to worry about,” Lanier said. She added that agencies are receiving tips from the public and each tip is fully investigated. Reach the reporter Perry Vandell at 602-444-2474 or perry.vandell@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @PerryVandell.