 Tulane has installed a new turf field for the upcoming season at Yulman Stadium. After its dramatic Cotton Bowl win against USC, Tulane brought back more than just a piece of the turf as a souvenir from its unforgettable comeback. The Green Wave purchased the entire playing surface, or the equivalent thereof. That’s right. The turf that debuted at Yulman Stadium for the start of preseason practice on Wednesday is the same as what is in place at AT&T Stadium, the home of the Dallas Cowboys. Through three days, it is getting rave reviews as state of the art from coaches and players. “This new turf is fast, I can’t lie,” said defensive back transfer Kam Pedescleaux, a graduate transfer from UL. “I feel like I’m on a carpet playing in my shoes. They did a great job of putting money into the turf to help us on the field.” The switch, which came at a cost of $1.5 million according to deputy athletic director for operations and capital projects Kortne Gosha, was not just a cosmetic change. The old turf, an off-brand product which had been installed four year earlier to replace the original surface from the stadium’s opening in 2014, began to deteriorate last season, becoming slippery among other issues. Already knowing they needed to do something, Tulane’s staffers loved the feel of the AT&T Stadium surface, making the ultimate decision easy. After sampling three major companies and using plots of turf the players tested for comfort, they picked Hellas out of Texas to install the Matrix® synthetic turf the Cowboys use. Taking out the old turf and putting in the new one took three weeks. The biggest benefit is one the Wave did not even experience at air-conditioned, indoor AT&T Stadium. This turf is designed to be 10 degrees cooler than the surface temperature because of an infield material made up of cork board and coconut that soaks up moisture from humidity and rain before dissipating when the sun shines. The old turf, which had black, crushed rubber, was significantly hotter than the air temperature. “It’s a huge difference,” coach Willie Fritz said. “We used to put a temperature gauge down there at every practice, and if it was 90 degrees outside, it was 115 on the turf. Now we’re the same as what the heat index is or maybe a little bit cooler.” That change is vital with New Orleans under a severe heat advisory every day this week. The difference also is visual. “It used to be if you were standing here in the sun, you could see the heat rising,” Gosha said as Tulane completed its Friday morning practice. “Here you don’t see it and you don’t feel it. Technology advances over the past couple of years have certainly put us in a better spot.” Defensive end Keith Cooper noticed a massive improvement even though the heat index has been higher the past few days than in his first two years of preseason camp with the Wave. “It felt like before our cleats would melt and our feet would get real hot,” he said. “It's much cooler and much softer.” The surface, though more common in the NFL, puts Tulane in exclusive college football company. Gosha, who termed it the “Cadillac version of fields,” said the only programs that have it are Clemson (for its indoor facility) and Kentucky. “It’s awesome,” quarterback Michael Pratt said. “The main purpose was to cool down the turf, and we’ve definitely seen a big difference in that.” The advantages go beyond temperature. While the old turf was set on crushed rock, an extra soft layer under this field is expected to lessen lower-extremity injuries like shin splints and reduce the likelihood of concussions. Although beauty is in the eye of the beholder, the cleaner, one-tone color should be more aesthetically pleasing than the alternating, two-color pattern of the past. There is an exception. The Angry Wave emblem at midfield now has blue hair. “I’ve heard it coined the blue hair era of the Angry Wave,” Gosha said. “We’re really excited about it.” Pedescleaux, a three-year starter at safety for the Cajuns, is lining up at first-team nickelback for Tulane. The first-team safeties in Friday’s workout were Nebraska-Kearney transfer Darius Swanson and Bailey Despanie. … Sincere Haynesworth was one of 40 players named to the Rimington Trophy (nation’s best center) preseason watch list on Friday.   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: