newsPolitics By  Everton Bailey Jr.Dallas City Hall Reporter By  Everton Bailey Jr.Dallas City Hall Reporter 6:00 AM on Oct 2, 2023 CDT — Updated at 11:40 AM on Oct 2, 2023 CDT Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson for months has declared that he won reelection with 98.7% of votes despite county numbers showing a smaller percentage. Johnson was the only choice listed for voters in the Dallas mayoral race in May after being the only one who qualified for the ballot. Records show of the 48,265 ballots cast from voters in Dallas, Collin and Denton counties, Johnson received 44,942 or 93% of them, 593 (1%) went to write-in candidate Kendal Richardson, and another 2,730 (6%) voters wrote in some other name. Johnson has insisted he received almost 99% of votes on social media, in his recent editorial announcing he’s moving to the Republican Party and other public platforms. The 98.7% tally is also listed in his biography on the city’s website as well as in an online post for Locke Lord, the law firm where Johnson works as a partner. Johnson’s office didn’t respond to phone, text and email messages seeking comment about the vote percentage. Get the latest politics news from North Texas and beyond. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Mary Elbanna, president and CEO of consultant firm Adept Strategies which has worked on Johnson’s reelection campaign, told The Dallas Morning News on Friday the mayor isn’t counting the nearly 3,000 write-in votes for non-certified candidates. “The votes that were cast beyond that were not counted based on how the write-in candidate process and votes are tallied by the city secretary and the counties,” said Elbanna, who is a former chief of staff for Johnson. She pointed to a city resolution listing the vote totals each certified candidate received in the May 6 City Council elections. Overall vote totals for each race aren’t listed nor are the votes received by write-ins that didn’t declare with the city secretary’s office like Richardson did. Any percentage is wrong unless all the write-in votes are included, said Dallas County Elections Department spokesman Nic Solorzano. “The votes listed as uncertified write-ins still count because they’re votes,” Solorzano said. “We count, we tally, and we see what the names are on every ballot. Even if you write in Mickey Mouse, that’s a legitimate vote.” According to a partial list of write-in vote responses provided by Dallas County to The News, at least four of the write-in votes counted were for Mickey Mouse. Others who received votes for Dallas mayor in May were Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, Dallas native and singer Erykah Badu, former President Donald Trump, Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, at least five sitting Dallas Council members, City Manager T.C. Broadnax, Albert Einstein, Donald Duck, Batman, Snoopy and Jesus Christ. At least 10 people wrote in “anyone else,” the records revealed. Johnson repeated the 98.7% figure during an interview Thursday with conservative radio talk show host Mark Davis. Johnson declared he wasn’t going to resign as mayor despite demands from the head of the Dallas County Democratic Party for him to step down and that he has “no plans whatsoever to run for higher office.” “I’m not running for anything else,” Johnson said. “I want to do this job, and I want to do it the way I’ve been doing it for the past four-plus years. So I hope people take me at face value there because I mean it. I’m on a mission to make my hometown the best city that I can make it, and I’m going to do that as a Republican.” He said he wasn’t listed on election ballots for mayor as a Democrat and dismissed concerns that he “snookered voters by tricking them into voting for me as a Democrat.” Johnson said demonstrators protesting outside his home in 2020 calling for him to push for diverting budget money away from the police department to other city services was “the straw” that pushed him to consider switching political parties. He described the timing of his announcement as akin to deciding to get a divorce one day, but actually going through with moving out sometime later. Johnson said no one knew of his decision ahead of time and that he felt the GOP is “where I belong.” “I didn’t tell anyone I was doing this. My mother didn’t know I was doing this,” Johnson told Davis. “Not a single elected official knew I was doing this.” Everton Bailey Jr., Dallas City Hall Reporter. Everton covers Dallas city government. He joined The Dallas Morning News in November 2020 after previously working for The Oregonian and The Associated Press in Hartford, Conn. 