The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A Chick-fil-A employee in Georgia is being lauded for her heroic actions to save a 3-year-old girl who was choking on a coin. Chick-fil-A team member Mia Isabella Velez was recently reunited with the child and her grateful mother. It all started when, during a trip to the store, Liliana Leahy's motherly instinct told her to pull over into a Chick-fil-A restaurant's parking lot in Newnan, Georgia, which is a Metro Atlanta community. "Something tells like, go make a turn, go make a turn," Liliana told WXIA, adding that she listened to her gut.  Her daughter, 3-year-old Theia, was in the backseat. And making the turn ended up being a life-saving action.  Liliana explained that as she pulled into the parking lot, Theia began to choke and wasn't able to speak.  "I started, like, screaming. It's like, 'Hey help me. Somebody help me. My daughter is choking,'" Liliana said. "I just panicked, so I (was) just like asking for help. I was really, really scared for her, honestly."  Working the restaurant's drive-thru, the mother and daughter caught the eye of Velez. "To be honest, I originally thought they were laughing and having a good time, and sure enough that was not the case," Velez said.  Realizing something was wrong, Velez didn't hesitate to help.  "My instincts just kicked in and I dropped my iPad and I just started running directly to her," Velez recalls. As Velez gave Theia the Heimlich maneuver, a coin flew out of the child's mouth.   "That thing was humongous," Velez said of the coin. "I had seen it in the moment but I just, seeing it now, I was like, I forgot that's what came out of your mouth."  With the innocence of a child, Theia only had one request after the heart-pounding incident.  "The first thing that she said was literally like 'I want an ice cream,'" Liliana said of her daughter. For Velez, it was a pleasure to help the child when she was in need, but the Chick-fil-A employee still isn't used to being hailed as a hero.  "It's surreal when you hear that you, like, you saved her life, like, you don't expect to get that title," Velez said.  Velez, who is 18 and only recently moved from California to the Georgia community, is taking the experience as a life lesson. "It's a lesson for all of us to learn that you can be that light to somebody else and I'm so glad that I got to be the one for that family," Velez said. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.