Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Disney directors unanimously rejected activist investor Nelson Peltz's request to join the board this month, in large part due to his lack of media industry expertise. That would be a stronger argument if Disney's current board members had ample media and entertainment experience when they joined. Almost all of them didn't. This isn't justification for Peltz's case to join the board. Many public company boards have directors with a wide variety of experience. Peltz's strongest claim for a board seat is probably ensuring that succession planning finally happens in an organized and coherent way – which doesn't appear to be the primary argument he's making. Still, if Disney feels it's important for Peltz to have media and entertainment experience, it may want to make broader changes to its board to bring on several other people who can navigate a complicated and rapidly changing industry. A Disney spokesperson declined to comment. According to a company filing Tuesday, Disney decided not to offer Peltz a board seat because he didn't suggest any specific strategic ideas and had minimal industry experience. "Among the drivers for such concern was the combination of Mr. Peltz's lack of media or technology industry experience coupled with his repeated focus in his presentation on successful approaches from businesses like Heinz, Procter & Gamble and DuPont which have little in common with Disney," Disney wrote. It's true that Peltz has minimal experience on media boards, though he did serve as a director of MSG Networks from 2014 to 2015 and still serves as a Madison Square Garden director. But Disney's board is filled with directors whose prior experience have little to do with streaming services, legacy pay TV, theme parks or films. Their collective experience is actually closer to businesses like Heinz and Procter & Gamble. Only CEO Bob Iger, Amy Chang and Carolyn Everson have some prior experience in media. Chang's experience is tangential to Disney's core business, as global head of product at Google Ads Measurement. Everson just joined the board in September — perhaps a sign Disney's board is also acknowledging its own relative lack of media understanding. Disney's board members have experience in operations, brand management and technology. But Peltz argued in a CNBC interview that Disney should be viewed more as a consumer company than a media company. "This is a lot more than a media company. This is a consumer company, with a basketful of the greatest brands in the world," Peltz said. Disney's choice in directors seems to be in accordance with that viewpoint. But as decisions await such as whether to spend $10 billion or more on Comcast's 33% stake in Hulu and what to do with a slowly dying legacy cable network business, perhaps Disney finally needs more media expertise on its board. WATCH: Disney is more than a media company, it's a consumer company, says Trian's Nelson Peltz Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by