Scattered thunderstorms. High near 90F. Winds E at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 50%. Rainfall may reach one inch.. Rain showers this evening with mostly clear conditions overnight. Low 71F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 80%.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 1:24 pm  Our newsletter catches you up with all the business stories that are shaping Charleston and South Carolina every Monday and Thursday at noon. Get ahead with us - it's free. Nexton is one of the Lowcountry’s largest and fastest growing communities located in Summerville. This master-planned community was developed 10 years ago and has been rapidly growing ever since with over 2,000 residential homes, shops, eateries, offices and green spaces like parks, playgrounds and open spaces. But the great amenities that Nexton has to offer aren’t only available to its residents. Anyone in the Charleston area can enjoy the parks, restaurants, local shops and the exciting events that happen within the community. With multiple move-in ready homes and new homes coming up every week in the district, Nexton has no shortage of people moving into the neighborhood. And there is quite a friendly, welcoming sense of community throughout the area. If you’re looking to venture over to Summerville and check out the Nexton community this spring and summer, we recommend these 6 events and activities… 1. Mother’s Day Tea Nexton is hosting a Mother’s Day Tea event this Sunday, May 14 from 12-5pm at the Info Cottage. Sip and savor tea and treats before heading out to tour Nexton’s model homes and quick move-ins. Attendees can also play a guessing game and guess how many kisses are in the teapot for the chance to win a $100 Nexton American Express gift card! Learn more about Nexton’s new homes and enjoy an afternoon with Mom. 2. Take a Stroll or Bike Ride Through the Parks With over 46 parks in Nexton, you have no shortage of trails and green spaces to walk or bike through when visiting. The Great Lawn is a large green space/ lawn area to have a picnic or relax under the trees, Brown Family Park features concerts and shows throughout the year and several waterways and green spaces make for a lovely day of park-hopping. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 3. Grab a Bite Nexton features multiple delicious food options to enjoy the next time you’re wanting to head outside of the busy streets of Charleston to grab a bite to eat. Some favorites are Viva Chicken, Halls Chophouse, Wok ‘N Roll, and Poogan’s Southern Kitchen. 4. Enjoy a Cocktail After grabbing some lunch or dinner while strolling through Nexton, don’t forget to grab a cocktail. Enjoy a margarita at Taco Boy, catch a game at The Knot Burger Pub and look forward to a Biergarten and Pickle Bar coming soon. 5. Get a Workout in Need to grab a quick workout the next time you’re in Summerville? Nexton offers fitness classes and gyms so that you can get your heart rate up while you’re visiting the community. Check out Barre Nation, Bold Fitness, Title Boxing, Three Keys Yoga or Bold Academy. 6. Celebrate Father’s Day Nexton is helping you appreciate your dad this year at the Father’s Day event on June 18 from 12-5pm at the Info Cottage. Sip on craft beer, enjoy protein bars, check out model homes and quick move-ins and enter to win a $100 King’s Leaf Cigars and Wine gift card at Nexton.   The next time you’re in the Summerville area, stop by Nexton to enjoy an event or to check out some of their local restaurants, shops, parks and workout centers. You could spend an entire day wandering the community! 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 Your endless summer begins when you step into your new Lennar dream home in Summers Corner, voted Charleston's best community by the Charleston Home Builders Association.†  Read moreFind your Dream Home in Summers Corner When one thinks of luxury, sometimes the first thing that comes to mind is the gargantuan castles of old, with everything draped in elegance and grandeur and a floor plan you were sure to get lost in. While for some homeowners, luxury is still found in castles, estates, and larger square foo… Read moreLuxury Condos: Large Living in Small Spaces Lucy Maud Mo… Read moreSpringtime Fun in Charleston Charleston, … Read moreOwen Tyler Of The Cassina Group Honored With Distinguished Service Award By South Carolina Realtors® The Post and Courier
148 Williman Street
Charleston, SC 29403 Phone: 843-577-7111 News tips/online questions: newstips@postandcourier.com Delivery/subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale