Champions League football is back on Tyneside as Newcastle United host Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League Get our FREE Newcastle United newsletter emailed daily to your inbox by subscribing below We have more newsletters Get our FREE Newcastle United newsletter emailed daily to your inbox by subscribing below We have more newsletters 20 years, 246 months, 1072 weeks, 7504 days. That is exactly how long it has been since Newcastle United hosted a Champions League clash at St James' Park. Worth the wait? Absolutely.  As Newcastle players marched out of the tunnel just before 8pm on Wednesday, the moment we'd all been waiting for arrived. The Champions League anthem officially returned to Tyneside. With the four stands kitted out with Wor Flags' best gear, 52,000 yearning fans soaked in the emotion as the famous adaptation of “Zadok the Priest” boomed out over the St James' Park speakers.  As the TV cameras panned along the line of players, the Newcastle stars revelled in the moment. Check out the video in this article to get a feel of the scenes inside the ground. READ MORE: Newcastle United in the Champions League LIVE - All the build up as PSG arrive on Tyneside READ MORE: Newcastle United vs PSG LIVE - Updates from Champions League clash Chronicle Live interviewed the composer of the famous song, Tony Britten, over the summer to ask how he felt that his iconic creation was returning to the region. "Various players have said in interviews and to my face that it's that moment where you know that you've arrived," Britten said.  "It's that moment in any sport where you think, 'OK, I can't talk about it anymore. I can't read about it any longer. I've got to do it now.' I enjoy that notion. It's nice that the players feel that about the music.  "I'm glad the Newcastle boys are in that camp. It's a kind of affirmation. Newcastle have had a fairly torrid time of it over the last few years. Good for them." Excited to follow Newcastle United in Europe? There's now a way you can get Champions League news, travel tips and video sent straight to your device. It's quick and easy to join. Just click this link and select 'Join Community' to get started. Your informational will be hidden, you'll only ever receive messages from the Chronicle Live sports team, and you can leave any time you like. For more information, click here. You can read our Privacy Notice here. 