The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. When Hurricane Idalia slammed into the coast of Florida on Wednesday as a Category 4 storm, the Salvation Army already had teams in place to help pick up the mess left behind.  Major Tom Louden, Commander of the Kentucky-Tennessee Division of the Salvation Army, said 16 units are in place around Florida. In one of those units, you'll find Louisville native Bo Sells.  Sells, whose job description is the Director of Emergency Disaster Services in the Kentucky-Tennessee Division of the Salvation Army, has been called to take on another role.  "He's on-site as the logistics chief, which is a very big job," Maj. Louden said. "It's the person who makes sure all the resources are where they need to be, and resources are coming to those places." Those resources include food, water, shelter, medicine, and even counseling.  "That's one of the great needs of our communities, mental health and wellness. In the midst of the coming out of a pandemic and so many uncertainties in which we live today, and then you throw on top of that a major disaster... People need someone to talk to and someone to pray with," Louden said.  Sells will be assisting with all of it. He's posted in one of the Salvation Army's large warehouses in Tampa until the need for help subsides.  In a statement, Sells said: "The Salvation Army is uniquely positioned to immediately respond to natural disasters with a clear understanding of each community’s needs. In times of disaster, we serve the whole person — physically, emotionally, and spiritually." Louden said the Salvation Army also has units posted throughout southern Georgia and the Carolinas as Idalia pushes toward the Atlantic Ocean.  If you'd like to help in the Salvation Army's relief efforts, click here.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.