Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters It's only a matter of days until thousands of racers take to the city streets to compete in the Great Manchester Run 2023.  Some 25,000 people will be getting ready to lace up their trainers and take on either the 10k or half marathon route this Sunday (21 May). Televised by the BBC, both runs will be punctuated by live entertainment - plus the sound of thousands of supporters cheering on the city's athletes and runners.  2023 marks the 20th anniversary of the event, and those coming out to show their support can expect a glimpse of Olympic legend Sir Mo Farah, who will race in the Great Manchester Run for the final time. The four-time gold medallist, who took part in the event last year, will retire from elite competition after the AJ Bell Great North Run in September.  READ MORE: Join the FREE Manchester Evening News WhatsApp community The 10k route, which is 6.9 miles shorter than the half marathon, features numerous landmarks including Manchester United’s Old Trafford stadium, the Imperial War Museum at Salford Quays, and The Lowry. The half marathon route meanwhile, takes runners past both of the city's football stadiums, joining the 10k route in running past the Beetham Tower, the 47-storey skyscraper that will mark the finish line. Here's a rundown of the full route for both the 10k and half-marathon section of the Great Manchester Run this year. The 10k run will start on Portland Street and move down Chester Road leading onto Bridgewater Way before passing Old Trafford. Runners will loop back on themselves via Warren Bruce Road and pass the Imperial War Museum as they make their way back for the second half of the route. As they head back to Whitworth Street, they will turn off onto Deansgate where the finish line will see the finish line in the near distance.  The half marathon route also starts on Portland street, however, as they make their way to Mancunian Way, instead of going straight down Chester Road, participants will turn off onto the A57 and make their way towards Manchester Piccadilly train station. Going past the station, the half marathon runners will then move onto Ashton Old Road and start looping back around the Manchester City Football Ground from Nexen Tyre foot bridge onto Alan Turing Way. On the first loop back, runners will then go past Manchester Metropolitan university and move onto a similar path as the 10k route towards Manchester United Football Ground and eventually onto Warren Bruce Road. From this point, the half marathon runners will be on the home stretch, going past the Imperial War Museum towards the finish line on Deansgate via Chester Road. As is usually the case, both routes may be subject to change. Read today's top stories here READ NEXT: Manchester International Festival 2023 announces food and music line-up for all new riverside Festival Square New steak spot and bar headed to Sale’s former Food Hall Behind the scenes at the "most colourful exhibition of the year" that's landed in Manchester Popular tearoom issues perfect response to complaint about food being served hot Manchester Food and Drink Festival to take a year off - but awards will still go ahead 