We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Monthly reports of construction noise and vibration monitoring for HS2, taken within local authorities along the Phase One (London to West Midlands) route and Phase 2a (West Midlands to Crewe) route. PDF, 4.93 MB, 39 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 1.82 MB, 23 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 14.2 MB, 142 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 14.5 MB, 111 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 1.78 MB, 20 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 8.08 MB, 81 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 5.46 MB, 59 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 11.1 MB, 68 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 9.45 MB, 58 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 15 MB, 72 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 4.33 MB, 36 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 1.61 MB, 19 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 6.17 MB, 59 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 5.56 MB, 43 pages This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. The reports contain monitoring data and interpretative results, including a summary of the construction activities occurring. This covers any complaints received, data recorded over the monitoring period, any periods which exceeded agreed trigger levels and the results of any investigations. Where High Speed Two (HS2) works have been identified as the source, the reports include actions taken to resolve the issue and to prevent a recurrence. HS2 Ltd and its contractors are required to undertake air quality and dust monitoring, and produce monthly reports, to comply with the Code of Construction Practice (CoCP). The reports are specific to each local authority area along the Phase One route. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      