Mar 15, 2023 Though it’s not the official start of spring, springing forward on Sunday made the shift, in most minds. Moving our clocks ahead provides a good opportunity to do a little safety maintenance in our homes. According to the National Fire Protection Association, changing batteries in smoke detectors and alarms is just the beginning. “On March 12, states throughout the U.S. turn their clocks forward for Daylight Savings Time,” the NFPA says.  “Many people will use this opportunity to change their home’s smoke alarm batteries as well.” But “today’s smoke alarms are not all designed the same,” according to the NFPA. Those with non-replaceable 10-year batteries will begin to chirp when their batteries are low. At that point, the entire smoke alarm should be thrown out and replaced.  In some cases, smoke detectors can even be hard-wired into your home’s electrical system. Those do not need batteries at all. Test and check carbon monoxide detectors, too. In fact, use the occasion to do a full-house safety check.  In the end, you will be glad to have the peace of mind that comes with knowing you have done everything you can to keep your family as safe as possible. Warmer, brighter days are just around the corner. If you’ve not already done so, take a few minutes this week and check your home’s safety alarms. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox CHEERS to Hazel Koveleskie, a 9-year-old Barnesville girl who started Hazel’s Heroes — a club that provides ... Ohio Rep. Jay Edwards, R-Nelsonville, is working on a piece of legislation that would let hard-working Buckeye ... Bureaucrats and elected officials in Columbus have gotten quite good at using public money to create what they want ... Ohioans can no longer pretend human trafficking is not a plague affecting our state as it does the entire country. ... With the official start of legal adult recreational marijuana sales in Ohio, there are plenty of people eager to ... CHEERS to word that a new, high-tech business opened its doors in Barnesville. Advance Manufacturing Labs uses 3D ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © The Times Leader | https://www.timesleaderonline.com | 200 S. Fourth St., Martins Ferry, OH 43935 | 740-633-1131 