It looks like actress Carly Chaikin and her husband, Ryan Bunnell, are going their separate ways. After a long courtship, The Blast has learned that the “Mr. Robot” actress and her husband’s marriage is over, despite only tying the knot in November 2021. Trending: Hoda Kotb Appears Distracted In First Appearance On ‘Today’ Since Mystery Family Illness Pete Davidson & GF Chase Sui Wonders Involved In Beverly Hills CAR CRASH Actor Scott Caan Files Petition To Manage Father James Caan’s Estate Conservatorship Filed for Ron Jeremy To Treat His Dementia High-End Sports Card Shop Sues Over Insane Smash & Grab In exclusive court documents obtained by The Blast, Carly Chaikin and her husband, Ryan Bunnell, are going their separate ways. Bunnell was the one who filed the petition. At this time, it looks like “irreconcilable differences” are the reason that the couple decided to split up. It is unclear if the former couple will pay spousal support or what properties are separate or communal. Both Bunnell and Chaikin reside in Los Angeles. The former couple doesn’t seem to have any children together, which will expedite the divorce process. On September 3, 2018, Chaikin announced that she and the TV director had gotten engaged. On November 10, 2021, she took to Twitter to share a photo of her and Burnell holding hands. She is wearing a custom Alon Livné wedding dress and white heels. She captioned the photo, “Dream wedding and dream dress.” Carly Chaikin started her acting career in 2009 with a small role in the film “The Consultants.” She hit her big break two years later when she co-starred as Dalia Royce in the ABC sitcom “Suburgatory,” which ran until 2014. Only one year later, she began playing her iconic role of Darlene in the USA Network thriller series “Mr. Robot,” which is what made her a household name. According to her bio, Carly knew she wanted to be an actress since she was 11 years old. She decided to skip college and instead focus on an acting career. Although she has not won any awards, she was nominated for a Critics’ Choice Award for Best Supporting Actress in a comedy series for her role in “Suburgatory” in 2013. The following year, she was cast in “Mr. Robot” alongside Rami Malek and Christian Slater. Chaikin was a series regular for all four seasons of the show. Over the years, she has been involved in a series of independent films, including 2015’s “Bad Bood,” 2017’s “People You May Know,” and 2018’s “Social Animals.” She has appeared in everything from thrillers to comedies to romance drama and has earned acclaim for her range as an actress. In February 2021, Carly Chaikin partnered with Miramax TV to create her own TV series called “Messy.” Chaikin wrote the show and will also be starred in it. She will split showrunner duties with producer Liz Brizius. No details about when the show will be released have been announced. In the past, she has written and produced several short films, including Happy F---ing Birthday” and “Nowhere To Go,” the latter of which was honored at the First Glance Film Festival in 2013. In addition to writing, Chaikin is also a painter with a talent for oil and acrylic paints. She also has dabbled in mixed media collage. The 32-year-old actress also has eleven tattoos, one of which includes song lyrics from Bob Dylan. In addition to her acting and painting, Chaikin is also very involved with the National Alliance on Mental Illness. The charitable organization conducts research and supports individuals and their families who are impacted by mental illness. In 2016 and 2017, she served as the emcee of the NAMI Walks to raise money for the organization. She has also recorded several public service announcements for the charity. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.