It’s February: the time when our thoughts often turn to hearts and love and all things Valentine’s Day. Healthy relationships can be so enriching and so good for our mental health, but I believe that the most important relationship you can have is with yourself. This February, it’s time to show yourself some love. People talk often about self-care and that usually means doing things for yourself like getting a massage, taking a day off work, or splurging on an item you have been wanting to buy. I believe that having a real, healthy, relationship with yourself – one that truly improves mental health – is deeper than that. It requires more work and more of a long-term commitment to yourself. One way to truly love yourself is to practice self-acceptance. Most men and women spend a great deal of time thinking about their shortcomings. We tend to dwell on the things that we don’t like about ourselves: whether it’s the way we look, our relationship status, or our lack of financial or vocational success, we are often very hard on ourselves. While it’s great to have goals for self-improvement, I think it’s also important to practice self-acceptance and appreciate who we already are. This can be really hard, because many of us have lived our entire lives in critical mode when it comes to ourselves. It truly is a practice that takes time and effort to develop. It takes conscious effort each day to change your mindset from negative to positive, but it is work that can have rich rewards. At the Thrive Clubhouse, a day program for adults with severe mental illness in Hendersonville, members are encouraged to practice self-acceptance on a daily basis. Each Clubhouse member has goals that they work toward in conjunction with their case manager, but they also focus on accepting themselves now – flaws and all. One important part of mental health is feeling good about who you are, no matter how long it takes to achieve your goals. Another way to love yourself is to make yourself your first priority. Like practicing self-acceptance, this is not easy. There will always be things that get in the way when you try to put yourself first – especially if you are a parent. However, there is nothing better for your mental health (and your physical health, too) than to love yourself and put your own health first. Again, Thrive Clubhouse members work with their case manager on this skill. Many Clubhouse members spend so much time worrying about the wellbeing of others at the expense of themselves, and staff have to remind them to care for themselves first if they want to be healthy enough to help others. This is a valuable lesson for many of us. You can prioritize yourself in many ways: saying no to a friend who invites you out when you know you need an early bedtime tonight, asking your partner for help with chores that you don’t feel you have the energy for, setting boundaries with co-workers who expect you to work outside of the workday, or saying yes to an activity that fills you with joy even though you feel you should be doing something “more productive.” It’s not always easy to do any of these things, but if you love yourself, you will work toward the goal of putting yourself first. Finally, much like a relationship with another person, in order to love yourself, you must be honest even when it’s hard. There are so many times that people know something isn’t serving them, but they lie to themselves to make it acceptable. For example, you may know that something in your life is toxic, say a relationship with a partner, a one-sided friendship, or an addiction, but refuse to admit the truth. It’s tough to face the fact that you would be better off single or that you have an addiction, but being honest with yourself is the first step toward self-love. And there are many options available to get help with any one of these issues – therapy is always a good idea so that you don’t have to do it alone. Romantic relationships and platonic relationships are great, but what really makes a difference is a solid relationship with yourself. This is the relationship that will exist until the day you die, so it really is the most important one you could ever have. If you would like to learn more about the Clubhouse Day Program from Thrive, visit www.thrive4health.org or call 828-697-1581. Tracey Gruver is the development and communications director at Thrive