NFL Constructing an NFL roster is a 365-day-a-year endeavor. New Broncos coach Sean Payton and the team’s front office staff will be working over the next six months to piece together a new 53-man roster ahead of the season opener in September — and the tinkering will go on from there. Denver, to put it simply, is not done. The NFL draft, after all, is still six weeks away. Advertisement But after embarking on arguably the most aggressive first week of free agency of any team in the NFL, we now have a far better idea of the framework that will make up the 2023 Broncos, a collection of players who will be determined to break the franchise’s seven-year playoff drought. That makes this a good time to offer a fresh look at where the roster stands, the questions that remain and how the Broncos might try to fill additional holes. In the room: Russell Wilson, Jarrett Stidham, Jarrett Guarantano Gone/pending: Brett Rypien (UFA) Top question: How quickly can Wilson adapt to Sean Payton’s offense? The Broncos signed arguably the two best run blockers at their positions in free agency in left guard Ben Powers and right tackle Mike McGlinchey. They also signed Michael Burton, a familiar presence at fullback from Payton’s time in New Orleans, and a road-grading tight end in Chris Manhertz. They added another physical running back in Samaje Perine. It all indicates the Broncos are going to be more reliant on the run game as they attempt to take Wilson, in Payton’s words, “off the high dive” following his bitter 2022 campaign. There isn’t a world, however, in which the Broncos can be contenders in 2023 without Wilson playing a significant role. Payton and the front office staff can build a roster that better supports the 34-year-old veteran quarterback, but Wilson will need to be far more efficient as a passer than he was in 2022. Payton’s scheme should help Wilson do that, but how quickly can Wilson grasp another significant change? How much of Payton’s expansive offensive menu, which was able to grow exponentially during the coach’s New Orleans tenure thanks to Drew Brees’ elite ability to process information, can be implemented for Wilson and the Broncos in Year 1? Advertisement For all the significant additions the Broncos have made from the coaching staff to free-agent additions, the biggest question won’t be answered until the season begins: Can Wilson resemble the player who thrived in Seattle and leave behind the one who floundered during his first season with the Broncos? GO DEEPER 'Too much influence,' too few wins in Russell Wilson's first year with Broncos In the room: Javonte Williams, Samaje Perine, Tyreik McAllister, Damarea Crockett, Tyler Badie, Michael Burton Gone/pending: Mike Boone (Texans), Andrew Beck (Texans), Latavius Murray (UFA), Marlon Mack (UFA) Top question: Who will be the Week 1 starter? The Broncos appear poised to create a more physical, dynamic and efficient rushing attack in 2022. But who will lead it? Williams, who shined as a rookie second-round pick in 2021, suffered a major knee injury in Week 4 last season that could threaten his availability for the start of 2023. “I think he’s on track,” Broncos general manager George Paton said at the NFL Scouting Combine in late February. “I don’t want to put a date on it. But he’s out there jogging. He’s working his butt off. He’s rehabbing. (Members of the medical staff) anticipate he would be ready for the start of the season.” And if he’s not ready? “We’ll have a plan,” Paton said. “We’ll have another back or two to be ready if he can’t go.” GO DEEPER When could Broncos' Javonte Williams return from knee injury? Surgeon details timeline The Broncos have some intriguing young talent in McAllister, Crockett and Badie, who played nine offensive snaps as a rookie for the Broncos last season but scored a touchdown on a 24-yard reception during one of those plays. Perine, meanwhile, has decent experience as a lead back in his career. In a 27-24 win for the Bengals over the Chiefs in Week 13 last season, Perine started for the injured Joe Mixon and rushed for 106 yards on 21 carries while also catching six passes for 49 yards. Having Perine start the season with one of the other young backs on the roster spelling him is not an implausible scenario in the event Williams is not ready at the start of the season. Still, there’s a good chance the Broncos add a running back in the draft to stockpile offensive talent and provide insurance against a delayed return for Williams. In the room: Courtland Sutton, Tim Patrick, Jerry Jeudy, KJ Hamler, Kendall Hinton, Jalen Virgil, Montrell Washington, Lil’Jordan Humphrey, Brandon Johnson Gone/pending: Freddie Swain (Dolphins) Top question: Will the “Big Four” finally see the field together? The Broncos could leave this position group untouched for the rest of the offseason and feel good about the talent and experience it would bring into training camp. Each of the first five players on the depth chart listed above has played in at least 23 games for the Broncos. They all have familiarity with Wilson, which could help ease the transition as the group collectively adapts to another new offensive scheme. Advertisement But will this actually be the year that Sutton, Patrick, Jeudy and Hamler all see the field at the same time, something that hasn’t happened since that group of four was assembled prior to the 2020 season? Or does Payton have other plans as he sets about building a passing game around his veteran quarterback? While there has been trade chatter around Denver’s wide receivers this offseason — particularly Sutton and Jeudy — it would not be a surprise if Denver moved into training camp with this core group and tried to maximize its potential for at least one season. With so much change set to happen this offseason, retaining targets Wilson is comfortable with makes sense. But I’d still expect Payton to draft a wide receiver in April who will have a chance to make an early impact. GO DEEPER Trade Jerry Jeudy or Courtland Sutton? Why such a move could make sense for the Broncos In the room: Greg Dulcich, Albert Okwuegbunam, Chris Manhertz Gone/pending: Eric Saubert (Dolphins), Eric Tomlinson (UFA) Top question: What kind of leap can a healthy Dulcich take in Year 2? Dulcich finished the 2022 season second among NFL rookie tight ends in receiving yards (411) and third in receptions (33) despite missing seven games due to injuries. If Dulcich can get through his second season healthy while operating within Payton’s tight-end-friendly scheme, there’s no reason he can’t approach something like a 60-catch, 750-yard, five-touchdown season. Outside of Dulcich, can Okwuegbunam, who spent much of his third season on the sideline before seeing an uptick in playing time near the end of 2022, become more of a focal point during the final season of his rookie contract? He has the tools to be a downfield threat, showcased during a narrow loss to the Chiefs in Week 17, but he must play with more confidence. Being placed into a consistent, defined role could help with that. This is a deep draft class for tight ends, so don’t be surprised if the Broncos look to add at this position. GO DEEPER Scouting the 2023 NFL Draft tight ends: What makes this class so impressive? In the room: Garett Bolles, Ben Powers, Lloyd Cushenberry, Quinn Meinerz, Mike McGlinchey, Luke Wattenberg, Isaiah Prince, Christian DiLauro, Quinn Bailey, Hunter Thedford, Will Sherman, Parker Ferguson Gone/pending: Graham Glasgow (Lions), Calvin Anderson (Patriots), Dalton Risner (UFA), Cameron Fleming (UFA), Billy Turner (UFA), Tom Compton (UFA), Advertisement Top question: Who will be the starting center? The Broncos unloaded nearly $80 million in guaranteed money last week in contracts for Powers and McGlinchey. In doing so, Denver believes it has upgraded talent at positions previously manned by Risner (left guard) and a combination of Fleming, Turner and Anderson (right tackle). The moves also made relatively certain that we know who four of the team’s starters will be on the offensive line, with Powers and McGlinchey joining Bolles (left tackle) and Meinerz (right guard). GO DEEPER With free-agency flurry, Sean Payton wastes no time rebuilding Broncos in his image Less certain is who will start at center. Cushenberry, a 2020 third-round pick, has filled the position in each of the last three season openers. He figures to have a chance to battle for the job this year, but Wattenberg, a fifth-round pick in 2022, could also be in the mix, and center figures to be a position Denver tries to address in the draft. An interesting name to watch in the battle for a swing tackle spot is Prince, who signed a futures contract with the Broncos in January and played in 15 games for the Bengals in 2021, starting all four of their playoff contests. Prince missed all of last season with an elbow injury, but he’s an intriguing talent if healthy. In the room: Zach Allen, D.J. Jones, Mike Purcell, Eyioma Uwazurike, Matt Henningsen, Jonathan Harris, Elijah Garcia, Jordan Jackson Gone/pending: Dre’Mont Jones (Seahawks), DeShawn Williams (Panthers) Top question: Can Allen match the production of Dre’Mont Jones? The Broncos knew they couldn’t let Jones, the team’s sacks leader since 2019, leave in free agency without securing an adequate replacement. They believe they have done that by adding Allen, who made big strides the past two seasons while playing under Vance Joseph in Arizona. With Joseph now running Denver’s defense and Justin Simmons, a former teammate of Allen’s at Boston College, playing behind him, the Broncos hope their top free-agent signing on defense can take another leap during his first season with the Broncos. Love this for my guy!!  Works his ass off, studies his ass off, cares immensely.  Can’t wait to see what this next chapter holds. Well deserved.  😤 https://t.co/IV8STpM9Kd — JJ Watt (@JJWatt) March 14, 2023  It’s worth noting the Broncos lost another defensive end starter in Williams, who had a career-best 4.5 sacks in 2022. Second-year players Uwazurike and Henningsen will get a chance to show what they can do in Joseph’s system, but expect the Broncos to look for more depth on the defensive line. Calais Campbell, who was released by the Ravens last week, is a Denver native and could be a name to watch if the Broncos want to find a veteran option in free agency. Advertisement In the room: Randy Gregory, Baron Browning, Nik Bonitto, Jonathon Cooper, Jacob Martin, Christopher Allen, Wyatt Ray Gone/pending: Jonathan Kongbo (UFA) Top question: Will Gregory play at least 12 games in 2023? In a contrite response to his actions in a Week 16 loss to the Rams last season, which included throwing a punch at an opposing player after the game, Gregory said that while his first season in Denver had certainly not gone as planned, he was optimistic about the future. “I want to be part of the solution,” he said. That will start with Gregory being on the field more often than he was in 2022 when knee injuries limited him to six games. He also missed most of training camp while rehabbing from a shoulder injury he suffered during the 2021 season with the Cowboys. Still, Gregory was playing well to start last season before he suffered a torn meniscus in a Week 4 loss to the Raiders, impacting games with his consistent pressure and ability to force turnovers. But the final tally of two sacks and 12 tackles was a disappointing output for a player who signed a five-year, $70 million contract that came with $28 million in guaranteed money. “He had a tough season,” Paton said at the combine. “Starting off, I thought he was one of the more explosive players, pass rushers, in the league. Then (he) had the injury against the Raiders and took a while to come back. When he came back, did some good things. But the fact that he doesn’t have to rehab this offseason will really help Randy. Randy is a dynamic player, and we need to keep him available. I do anticipate he will be ready for the offseason program.” In the room: Josey Jewell, Alex Singleton, Jonas Griffith, Justin Strnad, Ray Wilborn Gone/pending: Dakota Allen (UFA) Top question: Is there another gear for the Jewell-Singleton pairing? Advertisement Singleton played on something of a prove-it deal in 2022, making just over $1 million while racking up a team-high 163 tackles, the most by a Broncos player since 2007. Now, Singleton has the contract to match three straight years of consistent production. He signed a three-year, $18 million deal to remain in Denver and pair with Jewell, who enters the final season of the two-year, $11 million he signed last offseason. The Broncos are now counting on the duo to be a dependable and impactful core of Joseph’s defense. The Broncos should also benefit from the return of Griffith, who started in Week 1 last year and ultimately played in nine games before ending the season on injured reserve. Denver has enough talent and depth to consider inside linebacker a position of strength, which hasn’t always been the case in recent seasons. Tackles by season for Alex Singleton, who a league source confirms is heading back to the Broncos on a three-year, $18 million deal. 2017 (CFL): 1232018 (CFL): 1232020 (Eagles): 1202021 (Eagles): 1372022 (Broncos): 163 Pencil him down for 195 in '23? — Nick Kosmider (@NickKosmider) March 13, 2023  In the room: Pat Surtain II, Damarri Mathis, K’Waun Williams, Tremon Smith, Delonte Hood, Faion Hicks, Lamar Jackson, Ja’Quan McMillian, Devon Key, Essang Bassey Gone/pending: Darius Phillips (UFA) Top question: Will Mathis take a leap as CB2? The Broncos waived veteran Ronald Darby and did not sign a starting-level replacement during the first wave of free agency. That’s an indication that Mathis, a fourth-round pick in 2022 who started 11 games last season after Darby suffered a torn ACL in Week 5, has the inside track to becoming a permanent starter on the outside. That’s not to say there won’t be competition. Denver signed Smith, who doubles as a returner on special teams, to a two-year deal last week, providing veteran depth. McMillian was an undrafted rookie last season who performed well in his lone start against the Chargers in Week 18. The draft could also be a spot where the Broncos look for a prospect who could grow into a starter. But Mathis, who progressed following his flag-littered starting debut against the Chargers in Week 6, has a good chance to build on a promising first season. In the room: Justin Simmons, Caden Sterns, Delarrin Turner-Yell, P.J. Locke Gone/pending: Kareem Jackson (UFA) Advertisement Top question: Will Jackson return for a fifth season in Denver? Jackson, the soon-to-be-35-year-old who was a first-round pick of the Texans way back in 2010, has signed one-year deals to return to the Broncos each of the last two offseasons. He has said since last season ended that he hopes to play for at least a couple more years and that he would be interested in staying in Denver. Whether the Broncos go down that road again could be determined by how Payton and Joseph evaluate the other talent at the position in Sterns, Turner-Yell and Locke, who re-signed with Denver on a one-year deal last week and said he hopes to compete for a starting role. In the room: Brandon McManus (kicker), Corliss Waitman (punter), Mitchell Frabroni (long snapper) Gone/pending: Jacob Bobenmoyer (Raiders) Top question: Will Broncos bring in competition for Waitman? Waitman, who won a training camp battle last season with veteran Sam Martin, was tendered as an exclusive rights free agent, meaning he’ll be back for Year 2 in Denver. But don’t be surprised to see Payton and new special teams coordinator Ben Kotwica find another punter who can push Waitman during the offseason. (Top photo: Michael Owens / Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Nick Kosmider  is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the Denver Broncos. He previously covered the Denver Nuggets for The Athletic after spending five years at the Denver Post, where he covered the city’s professional sports scene. His other stops include The Arizona Republic and MLB.com. Follow Nick on Twitter @NickKosmider