Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Daria Gonzalez
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Chelsea Brown
              


            Apr 18, 2024
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   Wherever you are in your business journey, you'll need a content strategy to communicate with external and internal audiences — whether they're potential customers, new employees or other industry experts. As your business grows, your content strategy will naturally evolve. Using the tips below — which range from launching a content strategy plan to optimizing for audience growth — you can prepare for that evolution. Investing in content creation might not feel like a priority when you're just starting out, but the impact of a well-executed strategy can be immense. If you have a limited marketing budget, content is a cost-effective way to reach your target audience compared to paid advertising. Moreover, it can showcase traction with potential customers. If you're courting investors, the success of your content can be used as proof of the popularity of your product. You will also benefit from early audience discovery by monitoring how your customers respond to your messaging, thus gaining a better understanding of what resonates with them. If you fail to create a strategy from scratch, you'll risk producing inconsistent messaging. Instead of a haphazard approach, start with a concept the whole company can buy into. Don't assume you know your audience intimately; gather data to build a comprehensive understanding of who you're aiming to reach so you can create content that resonates. As you grow, monitor which methods are working or failing. Then, you can make informed decisions about your strategy based on performance. There are two approaches to use when defining your target audience. The problem-solving approach considers your customers' pain points and how your brand's solution is different from your competitors. The customer-persona approach is about creating a hypothetical representation of your brand's ideal customer based on research and data. By understanding your customers' motivations and needs, you can tailor your messaging and offerings to better meet those needs and stand out from the competition. Related: How Buyer Personas Can Transform Your Marketing and Get Results A robust content strategy begins with looking at your own brand, not at your competitors'. Make sure you're answering these questions when building out your strategy: Being able to definitively answer these questions will help you express your brand value to external audiences. Only after you've studied your company's internal characteristics is it time to look outward and see how you compare to competitors. Your value proposition and unique sales propositions (USPs) will help form the basis of your content strategy. Your value proposition is based on information about what your competitors are offering. It's important to understand their strengths and weaknesses so you can articulate why your brand offers a better solution. Your unique sales propositions augment the value proposition by defining the specific features and benefits that make your products stand out. Your business goals will inform the goals of your content strategy. To help set strategic goals, start with a realistic planning time frame. For example, six months gives you enough time to gain momentum, test out different hypotheses and track performance. A long-term approach helps you focus on building a solid foundation instead of looking for quick results. Content can take a while to ramp up, but if you approach it with a long-term perspective, you'll eventually reap the benefits. When executing your plan, one of the first steps is identifying your priority marketing channels — which will be determined by what your research has told you about your audience. These channels may include your website, email, various social media platforms or even mailers. Then, it's time to map your content-posting schedule to an editorial calendar, keeping in mind the themes that most resonate with your audience. By creating a content calendar, you can ensure that your content is consistent, relevant and serves your overall goals. A data-driven approach is essential. By tracking your strategy's performance, you can see trends and tweak accordingly to improve the traction of your content. Depending on your goals, you'll need to measure key performance indicators (KPIs), including website traffic, social engagement, conversion rates and lead generation. Here's the case for data-driven content marketing success: Related: 7 Crucial Metrics to Evaluate the Effectiveness of Your Marketing Campaigns On the internet, content is anything that expresses thoughts, information or experiences through written, visual or audio media. The photos uploaded to Instagram are content. The videos uploaded to YouTube are content. This article is content. Content marketing, on the other hand, is a strategic approach to marketing that emphasizes the creation and delivery of valuable information or ideas to attract, retain and convert a clearly defined audience. Content marketing can take many forms — email, social media, case studies and blogs — but it's differentiated from mere content by strategically providing solutions to your audience's problems — with the goal of raising the profile of your company and its products or solutions. If you're putting your audience first, addressing pain points and producing exceptional content, then you'll grow your brand while also cultivating authority and trust. That's content marketing. Thought leadership garners a lot of attention among entrepreneurs and those aiming to pick up more traction and increase brand recognition. Content marketing serves a similar purpose, but many people are unsure what the differences between the two are. The four primary factors that differentiate them are as follows: Premium content is any content format meant to be higher quality, more in-depth or more valuable than what you typically produce. Some of the most common examples of premium content include ebooks, white papers, original research and online courses. This is the type of content your audience might pay for while they could read a blog post for free. Producing these valuable content types might help you generate leads, as people are more willing to volunteer their information if they gain access to high-quality content like a white paper. Snackable content is uncomplicated and short-form content that can be digested quickly — like a snack. Its origins stem from social media, where infographics, memes, GIFs and reels now dominate user feeds. It doesn't require effort from users to read or engage with, but it also can provide awareness of your business. Because of its ability to capture users' attention, snackable content on your website — maybe via an infographic, listicle or fun quiz — can drive users to your website and keep them there. Snackable content is also mobile-friendly, which can draw larger audiences. It can even improve your search engine optimization (SEO) strategy, helping more people find you in the first place. Quality should always be your top content priority. Search engines like Google reward helpful, reliable, people-first content, but even more importantly, quality content significantly affects your readers and customers. Content should be original and easy to read with no spelling or grammatical issues. It should also be relevant and timeless. When it comes to SEO, consider these critical factors: Be sure to review each piece of content before it's published. This takes time, but it's essential to consistently produce quality work. Follow these guidelines for each piece of published content: Many brands want their content to go viral, but whether this happens or not is out of their control. There's no switch you can flip that will create a viral moment, but these seven factors will give your content better odds of taking off: Reaching a large audience requires you to devote resources to promoting your work — on social media channels, through email and elsewhere. Although the content itself is the bedrock of your marketing strategy, promotion is also paramount. As your marketing strategy evolves, it's important to implement tools and strategies that will make content production more efficient and, ultimately, more lucrative. You don't need to have every tool and strategy in place on day one, but it's important to refine your operation as you grow. There are countless tools and software products for marketers — some of which are more essential than others. To help you determine what you actually need, here are nine of the most important types of content marketing tools: Online readers are bombarded with information and selective about the content they consume. The way you write has a major impact on if you'll attract an audience. Your content should provide valuable information and answers to consumers and needs to strike a tone that connects with them. To accomplish this, follow these two pillars of great website content: Although content marketing efforts can build awareness and ultimately lead to sales, they can also be a revenue driver on their own. If you're writing blog posts, recording a podcast or live streaming on a regular basis, you can use most of these strategies to make money: Now that you understand the basics of creating — and implementing — a content marketing program, it's time to produce and promote your work. Conduct research to understand your audience, use analytics to measure your goals and use the tools and strategies in this guide to help you along the way. Soon, your content strategy will be firing on all cylinders. CEO and co-founder, Wunderdogs 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Amanda Zuckerman, co-founder and chief brand officer of Dormify, was just 18 when she saw a major gap in the market.
         
          Popmenu co-founders Brendan Sweeney and Tony Roy discuss the challenges restaurants face and how AI tools can help them grow bigger than ever before.
         
          Greg Flynn of The Flynn Group already operates restaurants under brands including Applebee's, Arby's, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Wendy's.
         
          Leah Solivan took her company from idea to Ikea acquisition. 
         
          Creating a trash-bin cleaning business from scratch was a labor of love and came with some unexpected surprises.
         
          Change is certain. But if your "why" changes, you can feel off balance. Here are three strategies to help you get grounded.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
