Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly. CREVE COEUR — A St. Louis-based company, which now makes voting software used in 36 states, is moving into a larger headquarters and growing its workforce. The election software company KNOWiNK was founded in 2011, with three employees working out of the Lemay Business Incubator. The company makes tablet-based software including Poll Pad, a platform for digital voter check-in and verification; Poll Print, a platform for voter check-in and ballot printing; and TotalVote, which provides a range of election-related functions. KNOWiNK’s first client was Cape Girardeau County, and over the years, it was picked up by more and more jurisdictions throughout Missouri, including St. Louis and St. Louis County. Then it started spreading into Kansas, Indiana and Ohio. “The product worked, and it worked well,” said founder and CEO Scott Leiendecker. “It really feels like it happened overnight.” Leiendecker is a former election official. He served as a director for the St. Louis City Board of Election Commissioners for 8 years before founding KNOWiNK. By 2021 his company was serving 980 jurisdictions, and added another 450 with the acquisition of BPro, a South Dakota-based firm. Today KNOWiNK says it serves more than 1,700 election authorities in 36 states — or more than half of U.S. registered voters. The company outgrew its Downtown West headquarters at 2111 Olive Street at around the same time St. Louis City SC was setting up shop across the street at CityPark stadium. Leiendecker said he was excited, at first, about his company’s proximity to the stadium. The prospect of leaving work and walking across the street to watch a soccer game is “one of those things you dream about.” But the stadium also brought construction, clamped down parking availability, and upped the competition for nearby real estate. So when it sought a new headquarters, the company landed on a location in Creve Coeur: the former American Heart Association building at 460 North Lindbergh Boulevard. KNOWiNK has 154 employees — about 60 of them in St. Louis — and is looking to grow. “We’re constantly hiring,” Leiendecker said. “I think we just brought somebody in today.” On Tuesday KNOWiNK will hold a grand opening for its new headquarters. County Executive Sam Page said if county voters on April 4 approve a 3% sales tax on recreational marijuana, the county plans to levy that tax in any municipality that also approves the sales tax. Video courtesy St. Louis County Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly. Business of health care	   Governor, along with County Executive Sam Page, appeared at ribbon-cutting for new headquarters for KNOWiNK, a voting technology company. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.