We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Updated 27 June 2023 

 
  © Crown copyright 2023
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-eu-memorandum-of-understanding-on-financial-services-cooperation/uk-eu-memorandum-of-understanding-on-financial-services-cooperation
 Pursuant to the Joint Declaration on Financial Services Regulatory Cooperation between the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) of 24 December 2020, the European Commission (“the Commission”), represented by the Directorate‑General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union (DG FISMA or its successor), and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (“HM Government”), represented by His Majesty’s Treasury (“HM Treasury”) (hereinafter “the Participants”) jointly endeavour to pursue a robust and ambitious bilateral regulatory cooperation in the area of financial services based on the arrangements set out below. Based on a shared objective of preserving financial stability, market integrity, and the protection of investors and consumers, these arrangements will provide for: If appropriate, and in a manner consistent with applicable policy, law and good administrative practices, each Participant will endeavour to share information on regulatory developments to allow for a timely identification of potential cross-border implementation issues, to the extent that such information is available and can be shared between the Participants. The Participants hereby establish the Joint EU-UK Financial Regulatory Forum (“the Forum”). The Forum should be understood to represent the views of the Commission and HM Government, incorporating input as appropriate in accordance with paragraph 5.
The Forum should serve as a platform to facilitate structured regulatory cooperation in the area of financial services pursuant to the Joint Declaration and this Memorandum of Understanding. In particular, the Forum is intended to take stock of progress and to undertake forward planning of regulatory cooperation with general operational objectives to: The regulatory cooperation should not restrict the ability of either jurisdiction to implement regulatory, supervisory or other legal measures that it considers appropriate. The Participants affirm their intention that the meetings of the Forum will be held alternately in the EU and the UK, at least semi-annually, and whenever the Participants consider it necessary. Meetings may be held by video conference, where the Participants so decide. Meetings between Participants are not limited to the semi-annual meetings referred to in this paragraph. DG FISMA and HM Treasury, respectively, may invite, where appropriate: The semi-annual Forum meetings should be prepared in advance by means of ad hoc or intersessional meetings or calls at senior technical level and/or at expert level on the basis of a mutually agreed work plan linked, as appropriate, to the EU and UK regulatory processes and taking into account the agendas of relevant international bodies including, inter alia, the G20. The Participants should each designate a contact point to facilitate regulatory cooperation. Participants may jointly decide to invite, on specific issues, experts to provide input. Contacts between Forum meetings may include setting up ad hoc groups, meetings, or calls on issues that require attention. The Forum may, as appropriate and in a manner consistent with applicable policy, law, good administrative practices and this Memorandum of Understanding, discuss any issue relevant to regulatory cooperation in the area of financial services. Discussions in the Forum will not restrict the ability of either the EU or the UK to implement regulatory, supervisory or other legal measures that either considers appropriate. In a manner consistent with applicable policy, law and good administrative practices, Forum activities may include: The Participants may release a joint statement after each semi-annual Forum meeting to give visibility to its outcomes. The statement may note progress on relevant topics, where necessary and appropriate. The Participants should, where appropriate, engage with their respective stakeholders before and organise debriefings of relevant stakeholders after each semi-annual Forum meeting. Specifically, the Participants may share information about the Forum meeting agendas and deliberations with their (co-)legislators or other actors in their domestic regulatory processes, while respecting their institutional obligations. In the interest of clarity, this Memorandum of Understanding does not create rights or obligations under international or domestic law, nor will there be financial obligations resulting from its implementation. This Memorandum of Understanding is not intended to interfere with cooperation outside of its framework, nor with cooperation between supervisory and resolution bodies. The Forum may start its activities as soon as this Memorandum of Understanding is signed by both Participants. A Participant may at any time signal in writing to the other Participant its wish to revise or end this Memorandum of Understanding. The foregoing record represents the understandings reached between the European Commission and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland upon the matters referred to therein. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      