SAN JOSE, CA - JULY 9: Alex Morgan #13 of USA celebrating during an international friendly game ... [+] between Wales and USWNT at PayPal Park on July 9, 2023 in San Jose, California. (Photo by Bob Drebin/ISI Photos/Getty Images) The U.S. squad's fierce attacking options will boost their aspirations of achieving the “three-peat” at the upcoming Women’s World Cup, USWNT legend Brandi Chastain said in an interview. The U.S. is aiming for a record third consecutive title at this year’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand after lifting the trophy in 2019 by beating the Netherlands in the final and in 2015 following a win over Japan in the title clash. The Americans are in Group E with the Netherlands, Portugal and Vietnam, with their group campaign beginning on July 22 in Auckland, New Zealand. The U.S. roster includes forwards Alex Morgan and Megan Rapinoe, who will play at their fourth World Cup, while the other options are Trinity Rodman, Sophia Smith, Alyssa Thompson, and Lynn Williams. LYON, FRANCE - JULY 07:   Players from USA lift the FIFA Women's World Cup Trophy following her ... [+] team's victory the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup France Final match between The United State of America and The Netherlands at Stade de Lyon on July 07, 2019 in Lyon, France. (Photo by Naomi Baker - FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images) Chastain, a twice World Cup winner with the U.S., praised the team’s attacking prowess. “Winning back-to-back World Cups was almost impossible, and they did it. So we know it's possible that they can win again,” Chastain told Forbes. “I think this field of teams is one of the biggest fields, obviously, and the most talented. We're getting to see countries that have never participated in the World Cup before, so goals are going to come from everywhere. “And honestly, I think it's the team that has the most assertive, aggressive attack that is going to win games. So if my judgement is right, the U.S. has that in a lot of players because we have very good attacking players.” COMMERCE CITY, CO - JUNE 25: Sophia Smith #11 of United States celebrates after scores 2nd goal ... [+] during the friendly game between Colombia and United States at Dick's Sporting Goods Park on June 25, 2022 in Commerce City, Colorado. (Photo by Omar Vega/Getty Images) The U.S. roster includes some veterans, but a majority of the players – 14 to be precise – will be playing at a World Cup for the first time. There have been concerns over the inexperience of the squad, but Chastain said there is a good mix of youth and experience. “I'm not thinking that that's going to be a problem. It will be a source of conversation, but there might be some naivetes in moments – that's normal. And I don't think it will be unique to the U.S.,” she said. Several players, including captain Becky Sauerbrunn and forward Mallory Swanson, are sidelined due to injuries. Their absence would be difficult to deal with, said Chastain. “But the World Cup is about a team and a collective group of people. And so, each team is going to be able to need to lean on all the players. I think in that way, the U.S. is strong because we have a very balanced team of veterans and new talent that I think it's very exciting,” she added. TOPSHOT - Sydney Opera House is lit in celebration of Australia and New Zealands joint bid to host ... [+] the FIFA Womens World Cup 2023, in Sydney on June 25, 2020. - Australia and New Zealand's joint bid, using the slogan "As One", is up against Colombia, with the decision due on June 25 after the field was whittled down from 10. (Photo by PETER PARKS / AFP) (Photo by PETER PARKS/AFP via Getty Images) This year’s World Cup will be the first to feature 32 teams, up from 24 in the previous editions. More teams mean more competition – so would that pile extra pressure on the four-time world champions? “I don't think the U.S. has more external pressure on them than they put on themselves,” Chastain answered. “But does it allow for more players who are great to participate? Yes. Yes, it does. “And it allows for more opportunities for unforeseen outcomes because I think there's going to be some upsets and some great moments from teams that were that aren't the usual suspects, which is going to make the tournament wonderful.” Asked about which teams could pull off a surprise at the World Cup, Chastain singled out Zambia, who recently defeated heavyweights Germany 3-2 in a friendly. “I think you can't sleep on Zambia,” Chastain said. “Listen to this: in 2014, a local gentleman brought a group of kids from Zambia to Northern California, and they came out to Santa Clara University. We had them at practice. I sat with them, and we had some fun. “Turns out that eight of the current Zambia players were in that group. Those young girls that came, they were young teenagers, and now they're playing in the World Cup. And one's name is Barbara Banda. If you don't know Barbara, you better know her because she is a highlight reel.” PASADENA, :  Brandi Chastain of the US celebrates after kicking the winning penalty shot to win the ... [+] 1999 Women's World Cup final against China 10 July 1999 at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. The US won 5-4 on penalty kicks.  (ELECTRONIC IMAGE)   AFP PHOTO/Roberto SCHMIDT (Photo credit should read ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP via Getty Images) Ahead of the World Cup, Chastain starred in a TV commercial by Frito-Lay called “Taste of Greatness”, which features an animation showing current women’s soccer stars and past icons, such as Mia Hamm, Marta, Christine Sinclair and others. In May, Frito-Lay signed with FIFA as a North American tournament supporter and official USA Snack of the World Cup – the company's largest-ever investment in women's sports. “Frito-Lay is leading the charge on supporting women's soccer and stepping up to support women in sports, which hasn't always been the trend. So the fact that they are doing it in such a big fashion is remarkable,” said Chastain, whose sports bra celebration at the 1999 World Cup is one of the most iconic moments in women’s sports.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.