Reporter/MMJ Shanila is an MMJ at KITV4 with a specialization in investigative journalism. She is an Atlanta native and an NYU graduate.  How to handle felony prosecutions in a timely and effective manner is up for discussion in the Hawaii Legislature this session. Both public defenders and prosecuting attorneys were at the state capitol to testify on a bill that if passed, would allow those criminals to be charged at preliminary hearings. HONOLULU (KITV4) -- How to handle felony prosecutions in a timely and effective manner is up for discussion in the Hawaii Legislature this session. Both public defenders and prosecuting attorneys were at the state capitol to testify on a bill that if passed, would allow those criminals to be charged at preliminary hearings. Prosecuting Attorney Steve Alm believes a passage of Senate Bill 36 is necessary, especially when it comes to protecting those who are victims of domestic violence felonies. "There’s a chance for cross examination. When the trial comes up, if the victim is too afraid to testify or flees the jurisdiction, because there was a chance for cross examination, we can put the transcript of the preliminary hearing into evidence,” said Alm. Alm added this essentially allows them to do the case without the victim, which could protect potential future victims from that defendant. in 2022. the state supreme court issued the Obrero decision, which meant the prosecutors in Hawaii had to get grand jury indictments in their cases, some involving violent criminals. "All of these mechanisms are important for the efficient running of the Hawaii criminal justice system. The department asks this committee to support this bill with our support," said Amy Murakami, deputy attorney general. Alm said he is thankful lawmakers are addressing the issue right at the beginning of the legislative session. However, the public defender’s office supports bringing back preliminary hearings and wants to add amendments to Senate Bill 36. "Which deals with information from the prosecutor's office to the defendant that lets them know that multiple times they’ve gone before the grand jury or they've gone before a judge seeking or finding probable. Right now, that’s not in the law and it’s not required," said William Bento, deputy public defender. There will be further debate throughout the 2023 legislative session. Do you have a story idea? Email news tips to news@kitv.com Reporter/MMJ Shanila is an MMJ at KITV4 with a specialization in investigative journalism. She is an Atlanta native and an NYU graduate.    Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: