MLB CINCINNATI — Hunter Greene and Nick Lodolo, the top two pitchers in the Reds’ rotation, stood on the rail of the Reds dugout during Wednesday’s game and looked out at the field at the Tampa Bay Rays. The Rays were in the midst of taking their second straight from the Reds and improving their MLB-best record to 16-3. The two talked about how Tampa Bay was not that much different as a team than they were a year ago, when the Rays finished third in the AL East at 86-76 and lost to the Guardians in two games in the postseason. Advertisement “It’s pretty much the same lineup, there’s maybe one or two guys that are in there that are new,” Greene told The Athletic following the Rays’ 8-0 victory. “It’s the same team as last year, but they’re a lot more polished this year. I see that with us moving forward.” If the Reds are to advance in that mold, to improve from last season and then continue that trajectory, one of the first moves came on Tuesday when Greene agreed to a six-year contract extension worth $53 million. Greene is now the only player on the Reds under a guaranteed contract for next season. There are plenty of other players under team control, but the 23-year-old Greene is under contract through 2028. In the previous 20 seasons at Great American Ball Park, the Reds have had just five teams with winning records. Each of those five was led by a formidable starting pitching staff, with the likes of Johnny Cueto, Bronson Arroyo, Homer Bailey, Luis Castillo, Sonny Gray and others contributing. Those starters were developed both internally and externally, but the one constant has been that they have not come as free agents. To be successful, especially in the offense-friendly GABP, the Reds must rely on acquiring pitching in every way but free agency. Locking up Greene long-term is a big part of that calculus. Making sure Lodolo and Graham Ashcraft are there as well is another part. “I really just want to be at the forefront of it all,” Greene. said. “To be a good piece along with a lot of other pieces that are part of the team and part of the organization. I’m just one of many.” In addition to the top three pitchers, the Reds also have catcher Tyler Stephenson and infielder Jonathan India, both of whom will be arbitration-eligible next season. Then there’s a highly regarded farm system including shortstops Elly De La Cruz, Matt McLain, Edwin Arroyo and Noelvi Marte in addition to infielders Christian Encarnacion-Strand and Cam Collier. Lefty Andrew Abbott is, at this point, perhaps the team’s best pitching prospect and may be the next to get a shot in the big leagues. Advertisement All of that is exciting, not just to those who follow the minor leagues and to the Reds’ front office and scouting staff, but also to the players like Greene who saw the younger talent up close in the spring. It’s that group, along with the core already in place, that gives Greene hope — despite a record-low attendance of 7,375 in Greene’s start Monday. “It’s easy to look at the stadium and say ‘there are no fans, I’ll wait and go (elsewhere),’” Greene told The Athletic. “But if I can look back and know that I was part of bringing fans back into the stadium, filling the seats, bringing that back to the city, that’s awesome. For me, that’s the main reason why.” The financials work out in his favor, as well. He has the security of the $53 million guaranteed, including a signing bonus and a salary of $1 million this year, but also the ability to earn as much as $96.2 million if he reaches all of his escalator clauses. The Reds have an option for 2029 that is $21 million with a $2 million buyout, but if he checked all the boxes, he could earn as much as $27 million in 2028 and $34.2 million in 2029, the option year. The Reds and Greene’s agents started talking this spring. Reds general manager Nick Krall said he’s reached out to agents representing other current Reds players, but declined to give specific names. In the past, under owner Bob Castellini, extensions have come in bunches for young players the organization wants to retain. Greene will earn $29 million during what would be his three years of arbitration. Max Fried, the NL Cy Young Award runner-up last season and World Series champion, lost his arbitration case this spring and received $13.5 million in his first year of eligibility. If Greene matches Fried’s production when it gets near the end of the contract, he could make much more because of the escalators that have been built in. Advertisement Is Greene possibly leaving some money on the table? Sure. But it may not be that much. For the Reds, Greene isn’t guaranteed more than $16 million in any one season. The team is paying that to Mike Moustakas this season to not play for them. “That’s a very fair value and it’s a very fair investment from an organization,” said Greene’s agent, Ryan Hamell. “When you sign these deals, I want him to be really good. The organization wants him to be really good. Hunter wants to be really good. We’re just getting the contract piece out of the way so he’s not worried about what he’s going to make year-to-year.” Even though it’s just his second season in the big leagues, Greene has been part of the Reds organization since 2017, when the team took him second in the MLB Draft. In fact, he remarked that the last time he was in the Handlebar lounge in right field at Great American Ball Park, where his press conference was held on Wednesday, was when he was 17 years old, just after he signed. Being a Red is the only professional reality Greene has known and for him and many others, that first team has significance. “The team you get drafted with, it’s the team that supports you and believes in you and really puts you at the forefront, just like (the Reds) did with Hunter,” said Amber Sabathia, one of Greene’s agents with CAA. Sabathia has more familiarity than most agents when it comes to understanding what living in both small markets and big markets are like for players and their families. Her husband, CC Sabathia, was a first-round pick by Cleveland in 1998 and made the big leagues in 2001 at age 20. Sabathia came up through the minors with Cleveland, won a Cy Young Award there and spent most of eight seasons with the team before he was traded to Milwaukee to finish the 2008 season. That offseason, the 28-year-old Sabathia signed a seven-year, $161 million deal with the Yankees, where he won a World Series in 2009. He pitched for 11 years in New York. Advertisement Amber Sabathia is a certified agent and joined CAA in 2021. Greene has been with CAA since he was a freshman in high school, he said. He wanted Sabathia to join his team when was hired by the agency. “I do contracts, I do arbitration, that’s what I do,” fellow CAA agent Ryan Hamill said. “I’m not the king of anything cool. She’s the king of all things cool — or the queen of all things cool.” It was Sabathia — Amber Sabathia — who told Greene about how great a small market could be for him and his career, just as Cleveland was for her husband. The Sabathias were high school sweethearts in Northern California, but their adult lives were formed in Cleveland. Amber went with her husband from minor league stops in Kinston, N.C., to Akron, Ohio, and finally to Cleveland. There, three of their children were born and CC Sabathia became a star. Even today, Cleveland feels like home, Amber Sabathia said. Cincinnati can be the same for Greene, she noted. “It’s not the Yankees, it’s not the Dodgers, but for me it’s a great place to be because the fan base is amazing and they really embrace you,” Sabathia said. “All teams have amazing fan bases, but I think it means something to us. It’s our second home, leaving California, Ohio is special to us.” Greene’s done plenty in the community so far. An alumnus of the Urban Youth Academy in Compton, Calif., Greene has visited the Reds Urban Youth Academy. In 2020, he hosted a free baseball camp in Cincinnati with the first part being an educational experience at the Underground Railroad Museum across the street from Great American Ball Park. Just last week, he went to Taft High School in Cincinnati to speak to students there about the legacy of Jackie Robinson. “Everything I’ve been able to do, all the opportunities I’ve had within the city, it’s been really special,” Greene said, referencing the Urban Youth Academy among other things. “I just look forward to building on that.” Advertisement Greene had expectations as a high schooler that few would understand, save superstars like Bryce Harper and LeBron James. All three were featured on the cover of Sports Illustrated as high schoolers, touted as the future of their sport. James made his name in Cleveland, while Harper was drafted by the Nationals, a team with little-to-no history of their own when he showed up. Cincinnati, of course, has a tradition of success — just not as much recent success as anyone here would like. While Greene understands the big fish in a small pond aspect of staying in Cincinnati — something teammate Joey Votto has experienced for both good and bad — that wasn’t the driving force behind his decision, he said. Yes, Amber Sabathia brought it up and he liked what she had to say. But in the end, it was what he saw on the field, in the clubhouse and in the team’s minor-league system. Wednesday’s news conference was held before a day game and several of his teammates, including Stephenson, India and TJ Friedl, along with much of the coaching staff, were in attendance to show their support. That wasn’t lost on Greene when he looked out at a crowd that included the media, his agents and his family. “I want to be at the forefront of bringing a winner back to Cincinnati,” he said. “Being able to come up in the system, seeing the development we have. We have some best pitching coaches and hitting. All that throughout the system, it’s just exciting. There’s a lot of great players that are already here that have gone through the system coming up, to be able to pull from that is really special.” (Top photo of Greene: Joshua A. Bickel / Associated Press) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. C. Trent Rosecrans  is a senior writer for The Athletic covering the Cincinnati Reds and Major League Baseball. He previously covered the Reds for the Cincinnati Enquirer and the Cincinnati Post and has also covered Major League Baseball for CBSSports.com. Follow C. Trent on Twitter @ctrent 