The owners warned that the incident could have caused "serious damage" The Volk's Electric Railway in Brighton has been forced to urge a warning to anyone who may consider trespassing on its tracks. The warning comes after an image was shared online of a woman posing on the tracks for her Tinder profile. Though the railway is closed over the winter months, some replies noted that the photo looked "summery", suggesting the railway may have been operational around that time. This could pose extreme danger to anyone who may enter the line, which runs using an electric-conductor rail to power the train. The image appeared in response to another Twitter picture which showed one man standing on a railway line. Yesterday (January 16), Volk's Electric Railway issued words of warning to prevent anyone from making the same mistake. READ MORE: Appointments could be cancelled in Sussex as nurses set to begin two-day strike On its Twitter page, the railway said: "We'd just like to remind people not to trespass on any part of our railway. This very silly person is lucky we were closed, otherwise that electric conductor rail she's leaning on would have done her some serious damage." In response, several other users suggested the individual should be "punished" for her "absurd" decision. One suggested a £1,000 fine for "trespassing on a railway line" whilst others simply noted the stupidity. Volk's Electric Railway is the "oldest electric railway in the world" that is still in operation. First opened 135-years-ago, the line, which was built by Magnus Volk, runs along the Brighton seafront and offers incredible views over the coast. Whilst it is not a train in the usual sense, it does still possess many of the dangers of an active railway line. The line is closed over the winter months but will reopen in time for Easter. Get the latest news from across Sussex delivered straight to your inbox - find out more here. Read next:  Driver dies in A27 crash after Porsche car hits stationary police car amid icy conditions   New 16-hour ice warning for Sussex as 'sub-zero' conditions freeze roads again   Sussex road closures as flooding and ice cause traffic disruption amid freezing weather conditions   Boy arrested after car 'crashes into group of people' in St Leonards causing serious injury   Missing boy, 12, found after large emergency search across Shoreham overnight  