Rajat Sharma, SVP and Global Head of Technology Ecosystem and Growth for Zensar Technologies.   Globally, we are facing a looming economic slowdown, the ongoing Ukraine war and volatile tech valuations. So far, 2023 has started out as a year of uncertainties across all businesses, notwithstanding scale or operations. To tide over this market dip, I expect an increasing number of global enterprises to revisit their digital initiatives through a very different lens. Enterprises are likely to shift focus toward cost-saving measures, such as automation and digitalization. Overall, digital transformation will become even more crucial for companies to survive and thrive in the face of a recession, as industries across the board will revert to basics with a focus on EBITDA, agility and sustainability. I have laid down my top five predictions for the benefit of enterprise and technology providers. Here are some of the critical enterprise technology trends that I believe will shape the next growth phase. After an era of continuously growing investments in discretionary projects centered on innovation and programs for experimenting with expensive new technologies, markets and products, enterprises will start refocusing on operational optimization and transformation (IT and business). The focus will center on high performance and productivity across IT operations, various product units and functional areas from the supply chain to customer experiences. The thrust will be toward higher productivity, automation and efficiency. Enterprises will increasingly focus on doing more with less across many areas in the coming years. This may involve adopting strategies, automation and technologies that allow them to optimize their operations (IT and business processes), technology and resources to deliver more value to customers. For enterprises, this will mean a shift driven by the need to remain competitive in an increasingly fast-paced and dynamic business environment and by the desire to minimize costs and maximize value for customers, employees, partners and stakeholders. Investment in high-end technologies such as Web3, the metaverse, cryptocurrency and quantum computing for individual functions will take a backseat. Instead, the focus will center on eliminating waste and redundancy and standardizing processes and technology, followed by integration and convergence led by automation and governance. We can expect enterprises to pay greater attention to creating the right balance between flexibility and agility for achieving the required innovation, standardization and management. Developing cloud-enabled enterprises with defined guardrails and optimized architecture will accelerate digital transformation, allowing organizations to access advanced technologies and fundamentally transform their operations. In addition, cross-skilling and upskilling resources will take precedence. For service providers, it is a wake-up call that only focusing on individual next-gen technology and bulk hiring of SMEs may not be the right strategy. Instead, a more holistic approach to reskilling and cross-skilling along with leveraging technology and process convergence will define the winners. Businesses will tend to prioritize investments based on the criticality of the area and its impact on the bottom line rather than achieving best-in-class solutions in every area. This approach may be driven by various factors, such as financial constraints, the need to prioritize particular initiatives over others or a focus on maximizing the impact of limited resources. Class-of-service models will emerge as winners by which clients can categorize investment tiers—platinum, gold and bronze—based on business demand, criticality and priority. Overall, businesses will be more strategic and selective in their investments, focusing on areas with the highest impact on their operations and success. What this means for enterprises is that one size does not fit all when it comes to investing in business functions and product units. Organizations that emerge as winners in the coming 12 to 18 months will be high-velocity enterprises with capabilities in rapid innovation and deep tech skills. The ability to build and execute a composable design and orchestrate business-tech convergence from full stack to hybrid with an agile startup culture will be an added advantage. Although high velocity will remain fundamental, cost composability and monetization will become mandatory. Cost composability will define the guardrails and FinOps to control costs for designing, enhancing and running digital and traditional workloads. Composability and monetization will be achieved through procurement strategies, architecture design, capacity management, performance and service design. For enterprise and service providers, FinOps will become an integral part of IT operations outsourcing, growing from just being a core part of cloud operations. Cloud management platforms will pivot to managing hybrid costs. As the cloud transcends from being an item of infrastructure capital expenditures (CapEx) to becoming a delivery engine for the tech stack to now becoming an engine of growth and innovation, it will sit front and center in growth initiatives. We still see the majority of infrastructure and platform workloads running on-premises while most enterprises embrace the SaaS licensing model. Several enterprise facilities, infrastructures and platforms will come to their end of life, making them ripe for a refresh. However, this refresh can be a direct move to well-architected, cost-composable, operating expenses (OpEx) models on the public cloud with a containerization, serverless and low-code/no-code approach, making cloud computing table stakes. As organizations pivot to a cloud-centric consumption-based model, showback and chargeback strategies between IT/cloud brokers and business units will become the de facto model. What this means is that enterprises and service providers should also evaluate a new wave of migrations from one public cloud provider to another driven by fierce competition and better value. These are exciting times for technology. However, enterprises will need to focus more on value, unification, class of service, cost composability, monetization and chargeback mechanisms in a hybrid world through the lens of the high-velocity model. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 