Imagine a time when an estimated 4 million people in the United States were infected with measles each year, of which nearly 50,000 required hospitalization and 500 died. Although it seems almost impossible today, that was reality in America in the 1950s. And the global numbers were even more staggering, with an estimated 30 million cases and 2 to 4 million deaths annually. It was in 1963 that the first measles vaccine was licensed in the United States, and an improved version became available in 1968. The vaccine was so effective that by 2000, measles was declared eliminated in the U.S. by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. However, memory can be short-lived, and over the past two decades, there has been a decreasing rate of childhood vaccinations in the U.S. and worldwide. This has once again opened the door for measles virus, with over 1,200 cases being reported in the U.S. in 2019 and nearly 200,000 measles deaths globally that year. The situation has become so concerning that the World Health Organization (WHO) now considers measles an imminent public health threat, and the CDC recently posted an advisory warning international travelers, physicians and public health officials to be on alert for measles infections during the summer travel season. This 1962 image depicts a schoolboy receiving a measles vaccination. As part of the national ... [+] immunization effort, this doctor was giving a measles vaccination to a young boy at Fernbank School in Atlanta, Georgia. Image courtesy CDC. (Photo by Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images). One to two weeks after exposure, an infected individual will often develop a cough, runny nose and conjunctivitis (pink eye), which can be indistinguishable from other viral infections. Three to five days later, the person may spike a high fever and develop a rash that usually starts on the face and then spreads to the neck, trunk and extremities. Sick child with rash due to measles virus infection. Although most measles infections are relatively mild and self-limited, serious complications can occur. Nearly 20% of unvaccinated people in the U.S. who contract measles require hospitalization and may develop pneumonia or encephalitis, which can cause deafness or intellectual disabilities in young children. Worldwide, measles still kills over 100,000 people each year. Measles is considered one of the most contagious infectious diseases known to humans, with an attack rate of over 90%. That means if an infected person enters a room containing 100 susceptible people, at least 90 of those who are non-immune will contract the virus. If an infected person coughs or sneezes, the virus can persist in air currents for several hours and may even spread from one room to another. When natural infection and/or vaccine rates are high (e.g., more than 95%) in a population, it creates a phenomenon known as herd immunity. Herd immunity makes the spread of a disease like measles unlikely in a population because the pathogen has little opportunity to spread. Think of it like a match being dropped to the forest floor. If the tinder has been removed—i.e., high rates of immunity—the fire from the match will likely be contained. But if there are large amounts of dry tinder on the forest floor—i.e., low rates of immunity—the flame can spread like wildfire. Over the past two decades, the rate of vaccination against measles has been on the decline worldwide. This trend accelerated during the Covid-19 pandemic, due to fewer children receiving their routine vaccinations. A record 40 million children missed a vaccine dose in 2021. This has resulted in a decreased level of population immunity—in other words, more tinder has gradually built up on the forest floor—thereby increasing the odds of a major outbreak. Imagine having a safe and effective tool that prevented 30 million deaths over the past 20 years, yet that tool is now being questioned and used less frequently. Unfortunately, this is not a fictional scenario, but reality in the world today. Routine vaccination against measles is extremely safe and highly effective, resulting in at least 97% protection after the second dose. Although cases of measles are on the rise globally, we don’t have to accept a repeat in history. We need to get to work now—removing the tinder from the forest floor—before a completely avoidable wildfire begins.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.