 Scorecard; Listen to TMS on BBC Sounds & overseas; TMS podcast: Ask Katherine Sciver-Brunt And we'll keep you signed in. Sign in  or  Register You need one to watch live TV on any channel or device, and BBC programmes on iPlayer. It’s the law.   Mike Peter All times stated are UK Sophia Dunkley guides Gardner's ball into the square leg region to retain the strike from the final ball of the over. We have nine overs remaining in the day. It's looking sunny and a tad breezy at Trent Bridge. #bbccricket Michael Heal: England need to calm down for the remaining overs now. Game has turned on its head….again. Australia showing their class. Wyatt waits until the final millisecond to guide Tahlia McGrath's inswinger past the slips for four. Replays show her eyes slam wide open at the moment of delivery. Text 81111 (UK only - standard message rates apply) My partner and I arrived at Trent Bridge with the Aussies 177-3, watched us tumble through their wickets and then left at the drinks break with England 55-0. We brought the luck and are entirely to blame for this capitulation. Alex Blackwell Former Australia batter on BBC Test Match Special Danni Wyatt will pick up from where she left off in the previous innings. A brief break as umpire Anna Harris has Sue Redfearn sort out something in her eye.  Danni Wyatt gets off the mark with a late cut to third. Want to watch how England slipped from 55-0 to 73-4? No? I thought you might not. Well, if you do, here they are.  Four more byes off McGrath, running down to fine-leg past new batter Danni Wyatt. There's been a few down there, England will take anything they can get right now. Alex Blackwell Former Australia batter on BBC Test Match Special This is a serious delivery from Gardner. Knight lbw b Gardner 9 (Eng 73-4) That's gone - but it's another marginal verdict. It's a remarkable delivery from Gardner, cutting in viciously. Heather Knight shuffles across her stumps and is trapped in her crease. The impact is umpire's call but the ball would have spun through to middle-stump. England have lost 4-18 since drinks, while Gardner has 3-19. Another wicket for Ash Gardner! Heather Knight is given out lbw right in front of her stumps. They've gone upstairs, it feels hopeful. Alex Blackwell Former Australia batter on BBC Test Match Special Heather Knight is not letting the scoreboard pressure get to her.  Here's the ball tracking image of the Emma Lamb lbw!  Look how little of the ball is clipping leg stump!  Dispatched by new batter Sophia Dunkley! A full toss from McGrath and pulled away to the mid-wicket boundary. A naturally positive player, she scored nine runs in the first innings, all from singles and perhaps that pressure drew her dismissal. No such issues here. Melissa Story BBC Test Match Special commentator England are in trouble now! Alex Blackwell Former Australia batter on BBC Test Match Special This is a huge moment in the game! It's the second time that Gardner has got Sciver-Brunt out. Australia are right back in this game.  It's not an easy run-chase. Australia set a score that is under par from what they would have wanted. England batted beautifully against the new ball but the introduction of spin has seen this game change dramatically.  Sciver-Brunt c Garth b Gardner 0 (Eng 66-3) Another England wicket falls! Sciver-Brunt goes to imitate her captain and goes for a big slog to the leg-side. She draws a massive top edge and the ball spirals into the air behind the wicket-keeper. Kim Garth is the fielder underneath it and she takes a relatively comfortable catch. Sciver-Brunt departs for a three-ball duck. England have lost three wickets in successive overs since drinks. Alyssa Healy took off her fast bowlers and has reaped the rewards - they're in the ascendancy in this innings. Text 81111 (UK only - standard message rates apply) We need to not lose another wicket before the end of today. Please don't collapse England. That's the way to get her team's spirits up! Heather Knight slog sweeps Ash Gardner for six over mid-wicket! Alex Blackwell Former Australia batter on BBC Test Match Special The pressure is back on England. It's just chopping and changing. Heather Knight with that massive six is swinging pressure back to Australia.