Published: June 29, 2023 | Updated: July 31, 2023 How many times have you stared at your breakfast plate, wishing for something more exciting than the same old scrambled eggs or cold cereal? Fear no more! We have the answer: Cottage Cheese Toast with Sunny-Side Up Egg & Bacon. It’s a bold, delicious, and incredibly easy recipe that will revolutionize your morning routine. This post may contain affiliate link(s). As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. See Disclosure. This dish is all about love at first bite. Imagine taking a crunchy slice of sourdough bread and topping it with creamy cottage cheese. Then, add a velvety, sunny-side up egg and crispy, salty bacon. The final touch, a sprinkle of everything bagel seasoning, adds an unexpected kick of flavor that ties this bacon and eggs toast together. It’s a symphony of textures and flavors, and the best part is that it’s super easy and quick to prepare. And if that’s not enough, this dish is hearty and balanced, providing an excellent source of protein and good fats to fuel your day. This cottage cheese toast recipe is ready in no time!  This cottage cheese toast can certainly be a whole meal, but if you want to pair it with something, try it with fresh fruit, an aloe vera smoothie, or just a cup of tea or coffee. I also love just a slice of bread with some almond butter on it to go with this meal when I need a bit more protein. Once assembled, your cottage cheese toast is best eaten fresh because the bread will get soggy. If you need to store the leftovers, wrap them separately and pop them into the fridge. Start with a fresh slice of toast to use up the leftover cottage cheese. Δ Save this recipe, and we’ll send it to your inbox. Plus, Chef Jenn will send you more great recipes every week! A Note on Nutritional Information Nutritional information for this recipe is provided as a courtesy and is calculated based on available online ingredient information. It is only an approximate value. The accuracy of the nutritional information for any recipe on this site cannot be guaranteed. 