Branzino in a caper and San Marzano tomato sauce. Carved prime rib and omelet stations. Pancakes, French toast and mimosas. Mother's Day, May 14, is just a week away, and it's time to make some reservations. It's one of the busiest days of the year for restaurants, and many metro Detroit establishments are offering brunch and dinner specials, or prix fixe menus. Here's a sampling of what's available. Most restaurants require reservations and may have select seating times. Be sure to check for special hours and offerings. Birmingham 220 Merrill, a part of downtown Birmingham for decades, will have an extended brunch available 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. On the menu are its signature shareable dishes including stacks of Bananas Foster pancakes and Fruity Pebbles French toast, a kid and adult favorite. Select fresh-cut fruits will be available along with tableside bubbly bars with sparkling wine or champagne. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. For info: experience220.com Multiple locations Mother's Day Brunch Bundles from Achatz Pie Collective include a fruit bundle for $115 that features two traditional apple pies, two Dutch apple pies and two Michigan four-berry pies. Achatz hand pies are $42 a dozen, or $21 per half dozen. For info:achatzpies.com Birmingham A special for Mother's Day is Adachi's dynamite lobster dish. The grilled whole lobster is served with yuzu garlic aioli for $62. For info: 248-540-5900 or adachirestaurant.com Frankenmuth The restaurant will offer a brunch buffet and takeout options. The buffet will feature salads including the Bavarian Inn Caesar, Oberfranken pasta salad and tabbouleh salad with couscous. The hot buffet will include waffles, scrambled eggs, Bavarian Inn chicken, herb-roasted prime rib, sides and vegetables. There also will be a dessert table. $42.50, $21.50 ages 8-12, $13.95 ages 3-7, free to children 2 and younger. Seating times start at 11 a.m. For info: 888-775-6343 or bavarianinn.com Multiple locations This steakhouse that lets you cook your own steak on a volcanic sizzling rock will offer an all-you-can-eat buffet on Mother's Day. Classic breakfast fare includes scrambled eggs, French toast and bacon. Also on the menu: shrimp, salmon, ribs or chicken, along with side dishes of mac and cheese, mashed potatoes, green beans and desserts. $29.99, $13.99 ages 4-12, free to children younger than 4. Buffett available at these locations: Ann Arbor, Canton, Davidson, Grand Rapids, Hartland, Novi, Portage and Utica. For info: blackrockrestaurants.com Farmington Hills The restaurant's Festa Del a Mamma menu has several course offerings. There's a choice of three antipasti dishes, salads and seven entrée choices. They include a branzino simmered in a sauce of capers, gaeta olives and San Marzano tomatoes, roasted prime rib, bone-in short ribs and grilled portobello mushrooms with spinach, rosemary potatoes, soffritto sauce and onion straws. Prices vary. For info: cafecortina.com Multiple locations The Mother's Day menu features Carrabba's Trio entrees and wine pairings. There's the Johnny Trio of a Tuscan-grilled sirloin Marsala, chicken Bryan and a mezzaluna, and a chicken trio of chicken Bryan, pollo Rosa Maria and chicken Marsala. The classic trio is chicken Parmesan, lasagna and fettucine Alfredo. For info:carrabbas.com Southgate This Downriver banquet center is hosting its Mother’s Day grand buffet. Main dish selections on the buffet are herb roast beef, breaded pork tenderloin, chicken Marsala and meatballs in a Burgundy wine sauce, along with a variety of sides (oven-roasted rosemary potatoes, vegetables and bowtie pasta in vodka sauce). Also included: a salad bar, soups, breads and sweets. $34.95, $32.95 seniors, $18.95 ages 4-10. Seatings at noon and 2:30 p.m. A pre-made heat-and-serve Mother’s Day dinner to go for five is $125; dinner for 10 is $195.The meal includes chicken Marsala, breaded pork tenderloin, redskin potatoes, King Edward vegetables, farfalle with Alfredo sauce, pasta salad, fruit salad and New York-style cheesecake. Pickup is 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. on Mother’s Day. Order by May 11. For info: 734-285-2210 or crystalgardensonline.com Troy A prix fixe three-course brunch menu will be offered 10 a.m.-2 p.m., and the full menu will be available all day. You can start off with cinnamon rolls, followed by a choice of appetizers including smoked salmon and Maine lobster bisque. Main course choices are lobster quiche Florentine served with a Fuji apple salad, roasted avocado and crab cake on brioche toast, or steak and eggs with potatoes au gratin and redeye gravy. Dessert and a children's brunch will be available. $52, $16 children. For info: eddiev.com Birmingham This seafood-forward restaurant opens at 10 a.m. on Mother's Day. Along with Hazel's regular brunch items, guests can choose from offerings like soft-shell crab Benedict, cinnamon rolls, breakfast strudel and a pastry platter. Also available: a flight of mimosas featuring stack-a-flapjacks and huevos rancheros. Brunch will be served until 4 p.m., followed by Hazel's full Eastern Shore-inspired menu, which includes Maryland blue crab and its popular Georgian cheese bread.  For info: 248-671-1714 or eatathazels.com Royal Oak The catering arm of this popular market has several options for Mother's Day. You can order individual quiche or frittatas, pans of crème Brulee French toast or a fruit platter. There are also lunch or dinner platters, along with side dishes such as deviled eggs and mashed potatoes. For info: 248-541-1414 or holiday-market.com Royal Oak A limited menu will be available from noon to 7 p.m. It will includes a selection of appetizers from popcorn shrimp to crab cakes and jerk wings. Entree choices are blackened ribeye, salmon, sweet garlic chicken, lamb shank and shrimp, and handmade pasta. Side dishes are mac and cheese, brussels sprouts, garlic mashed potatoes, asparagus and Parmesan cilantro fries. Prices vary. For info: 248-633-8899 or imaginaterestaurant.com Multiple locations: Andiamo, Birmingham Pub, Bronze Door, Joe Muer, the Statler A brunch buffet will be served at Andiamo locations in Bloomfield, Detroit (Riverfront at the RenCen), Livonia, Fenton and Warren. There will be an omelet station, smoked salmon, applewood smoked bacon, Andiamo's chicken piccata, pastas and desserts. Serving times vary at each location, with most opening at 10 a.m. and serving until 3 p.m. You can also make reservations for full dinner service beginning after 3 p.m. (noon to 8 p.m. for Warren location) until 8 p.m. Buffet is $49.95 per person, $22 for ages 5-10 and free to children 4 and younger. Prices do not include 18% gratuity and tax. Call individual restaurants for reservations or visit andiamoitalia.com. Other Joe Vicari Restaurant Group locations: Birmingham Pub, 555 S. Old Woodward, Birmingham, will offer brunch 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and dinner from 3 to 8 p.m. For info: thebirminghampub.com Bronze Door, 1232 Kercheval Ave., Grosse Pointe Farms. Brunch is 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and dinner is noon to 6 p.m. For info:bronzedoorgp.com Joe Muer, Bloomfield/Detroit: At the Bloomfield location, a brunch grand buffet featuring Dearborn ham, a sushi bar, dessert and more will be offered. The buffet is served 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. It's $79 for adults; $30 ages 6-12 and free to children 5 and younger Tax and 18% gratuity are not included. Full dinner service is 4-8 p.m. At Joe Muer in Detroit, full dinner service is noon to 8 p.m. with options of seafood and premium aged meats, all with a riverfront view. For info: joemuer.com The Statler, 313 Park Ave., Detroit. French-inspired brunch and dinner service is 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. There also will be a selection of pastries, wine pairings and hand-crafted cocktails. For reservations:statlerdetroit.com Detroit One of Detroit's oldest Italian dining establishments, Mario's will offer a Mother's Day brunch that includes prime roast beef, peel-and-eat shrimp, an omelet station, salads and dessert. $40, $18 for children 12 and younger. For info: 313-832-1616 or mariosdetroit.com Troy A la carte Mother’s Day brunch entrées will be offered from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and dinner options are available all day. Selections include crab and cheddar quiche, its upright French toast with applewood smoked bacon and wood-grilled shrimp and grits. There are also cocktails such as mimosas, sangrias, Bloody Mary's and Rosé lemonade. Dinner specials will also be available as well as to-go options. Season 52's Green Box To Go serves four to six people with three courses of freshly prepared favorites, chilled and ready for guests to warm at home. Each box includes a choice of apricot glazed spiral ham, cedar plank-roasted salmon or wood-grilled beef tenderloin, plus salad, two sides and six mini Indulgence desserts. Green Box orders are available for pickup on Saturday, May 13. Individual ham dinners are available for pickup on May 14. For info:seasons52.com Detroit This newly opened Mediterranean-inspired fine dining restaurant is inside the Atheneum Suite Hotel and Conference Center in Greektown. Cavatelli Pescatore ($37) will be featured as a Mother's Day special along with Symposia's regular menu. The dish includes shrimp, calamari, mussels and lobster claw in a tomato sauce with ricotta pasta. Mothers also take home a split of champagne. For info:symposiadetroit.com Detroit Chef Omar Mitchell is reviving his fine dining Table No. 2 restaurant, debuting to the public in Greektown on Mother's Day. A prix fixe menu will be offered. It’s been three years since Mitchell closed Table No. 2, formerly on Livernois on Detroit’s historic Avenue of Fashion. The new location in the former Sweet Georgia Brown space. A limited menu is offered for Mother's Day.  For info: tablenumber2.com Detroit This breakfast and brunch spot returned to the Rivertown district on Thursday. It's on the third floor and above Steve's Soul Food at 1440 Franklin St. For Mother's Day, there will be an all-you-can-eat breakfast buffet. Items on the buffet include buttermilk biscuits, scrambled eggs, shrimp and grits, chicken sausage, bacon, salmon croquettes, fried chicken and fish. Also offered are made-to-order pancakes, waffles, french toast and an omelet station. $49.99 per person; $25 kids under 12.    For info: 313- 656-4511 Birmingham Brunch buffet with seating available for 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. On the menu are traditional breakfast and brunch items of scrambled eggs, quiche, banana pancakes, chocolate waffles, bread pudding, bacon and sausage. There are also sides and salads and a dessert table with an assortment of cookies, cheesecake, creme brulee, Rhubarb blondies and grapefruit bars. Mothers receive a complimentary rose and pitcher of mimosas. Harpist Christi Grix will perform during the event. $75; $30 ages 4-12; ages 3 and under are free. For info: 248-644-5832 or communityhouse.com Trenton This downriver spot on Jefferson will offer a limited menu on Mother's Day from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. There will be breakfast, brunch and dinner items. Prices vary. For info: 734-676-2233 or truago.com Riverview Truago of Trenton will present a Mother's Day brunch buffet event off-site at Orlando's Familia Banquet Center at 15001 Sibley Road in Riverview. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Truago will serve a buffet menu at the banquet center that includes nonalcoholic beverages. There's a prime rib carving station, breakfast dishes including and omelet station, Dearborn ham, dinner items, sides, salads, sautees and dessert stations. Cash bar available and $15 bottomless Bloody Mary and Mimosa bar special. $37.95; $32.95 ages 65 and up; $15.95 ages 4-10 plus an 18% gratuity. For info: 734-676-2233. Birmingham This downtown Birmingham restaurant opened last November, offering modern American fare paired with European flair. Zana's brunch menu will feature a variety of dishes including cheese and charcuterie, salads and entrees of steak and eggs, an omelet, baked French toast, salmon and chicken. There's also a variety of side dishes. Prices vary. For info: 248-800-6558 or zanabham.com Bloomfield Township Sushi centerpieces are featured for Mother's Day. This chef-curated platter of fresh seafood features a fresh assortment of nigiri, sashimi and Zao Jun's signature maki rolls. The platter is available for two ($99), four ($190) or six ($275) people.  For info: 248-949-9999 or zaojunnewasian.com Contact Detroit Free Press food and restaurant writer Susan Selasky and send food and restaurant news to: sselasky@freepress.com. Follow @SusanMariecooks on Twitter. Subscribe to the Free Press.