“How does it taste?” asks my beloved wife, Marsha, looking at the blueberry pancake on my plate. We are with our beloved daughter, Jill. She and I are sitting side-by-side in a restaurant booth and Marsha is across the table, daintily eating a piece of toast. “Good!” I say. “It’s a pancake, after all.” As I’ve been eating, I’ve been noticing the people in the booth behind Marsha. A woman and a man are seated together, facing us. Across from the woman is another man. The woman has been talking animatedly. We are far enough away that I cannot discern the topic of her story, but she is and has been hosing down the others with her words. While she has been going on — and on, and on — the two men have been eating their breakfasts while her eggs and toast are attaining room temperature. Most interesting is the expression on the face of the man seated next to her. He has a wonderful face. It is full of laugh lines, matched by an ever-present smile. A kind and gentle face it is.  Throughout the woman’s story, he has occasionally nodded, as if in agreement, but has not said a word. Nor has the other man. If time and space need to be filled with words, the woman is doing an admirable job without any help from either man. As Jill finishes her breakfast, I say, “Have you been watching that group at the next table?” “No, Dad. I’ve been eating while minding my own business.” “Well, it is time to pay attention. Watch for a little while and then tell me which man is the husband,” I say. Being a good daughter, she sighs and observes for a little while. “The one sitting next to her,” she says. “Right!” I say. “The bobblehead guy that keeps smiling and nodding as if he is listening. He has heard it all before.” “I wonder when he tuned out?” says Jill. “1998?” I say.  “Too bad you can’t see the show,” I say to Marsha. “This guy is a great husband, just sitting there smiling and nodding. His timing is good, too.” “So, Dad. Who is the other guy?” asks Jill. “A friend they haven’t seen for a while,” I say. “I wish I could see his face. Is he really interested in her jibber-jabber, or is he faking it too?” “That’s a good question,” says Jill, who is now totally engaged in the surveillance project. “He doesn’t appear to be saying anything.” “How could he?” I say. “Chatty Kathy is not leaving any gaps in the chorus line.” After another minute or so, Jill says, “Did you see that?” “Indeed I did!” I say. “What?” says poor Marsha, the spy left in the cold since she can’t see anything. “The husband just yawned,” I say. “But he covered it up well by turning away for a second and then giving her a smile and double nod,” says Jill. Our very capable waitress comes to clear our dishes, and then steps to the next table, grabbing the plates in front of the two men. “Do you want a box for yours, dear?” she says to the woman. “No, thanks. I’m going to eat it,” she says, and then turns the tap back on. More words pour forth. A couple of minutes later we are outside by the car. I look in the window of the restaurant.  The guy with the great face gives me a thumbs up, nods, and winks. For the first time, I can see the other man’s face. It would look good on Mount Rushmore. Solid stone. Jim Whitehouse lives in Albion. This article originally appeared on The Daily Telegram: Jim Whitehouse: Torrent of words is no match for face of granite New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.