
			Laboratory results prove that the 'clean energy' experiment was not a one-off - but some critics doubt the technology
		 A nuclear fusion experiment that takes scientists one step closer to creating endless clean energy has been repeated by experts in the United States, proving their previous success was not a one-off. Scientists at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California replicated a ground-breaking December 2022 experiment where they made more energy from fusion than they put in. Fusion energy is considered by many to be a panacea for the world’s emissions woes and continuing energy shortages. It smashes together two types of hydrogen — deuterium and tritium — to make neutrons and vast amounts of energy, with no greenhouse gases. Unlike nuclear fission there is no radioactive waste produced, and private companies and the UK Government both hope to crack fusion power, the process that powers the sun, in 15 years. Scientists working at the Livermore laboratory announced last year that they had made more energy from fusion than was required to start the process. The technique involves firing powerful lasers at a lump of fuel and triggering fusion for a brief moment, which makes energy. An attempt to replicate this outcome was made in July and has now proved successful. Lasers imparted about two megajoules (MJ) of energy into the material and the fusion reaction released 3.5MJ, the Financial Times reports. This is an improvement on the 3.15MJ produced in December 2022 and the data is being analysed. However, the claims have been criticised by some experts as misleading because the net gain equation does not take into account the vast amount of energy needed to fire up the lasers, which is thought to be about 300MJ. The Government wants its own prototype fusion power plant, called the Spherical Tokamak for Energy Production (Step) in the East Midlands, to be operational by 2040, despite the site not yet being properly designed or built. British experts are focusing on how to make a functioning power plant that uses fusion to produce electricity for the grid. The Government and the private sector believe a technique called “magnetic confinement” is the best way to do this. This involves using magnets to control the flow of plasma in a spherical tokamak and therefore allow for a continuous stream of fusion reactions, leading to a reliable and consistent energy flow. It is hoped that by the second half of this century nuclear power, both fusion and fission, will provide a “baseline” energy output that will be supplemented by renewables (solar, wind, biomass and so on), which are more at the mercy of external factors and are less reliable. However, the Livermore laboratory uses a different technique, called inertial confinement, which is not continuous and is a distinct fusion event that acts as a burst of energy production. The Livermore’s National Ignition Facility (NIF), which carried out the experiment, can only use its lasers once a day and when accounting for the energy required to run the lasers and create fusion, there is no true net gain. British experts therefore are confident their magnetic confinement approach is the best option for creating a working fusion power station in the next two decades, despite the US inertial method showing better laboratory results. The Joint European Torus (Jet), which is based in the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy in Oxfordshire, published record-breaking results last year which showed the 40-year-old machine made 59MJ of energy from fusion. It was a record achieved thanks to several material breakthroughs allowing for better magnets and a longer run time, but it was still not a net gain because of the huge amount of energy needed to initiate fusion and run the machines. Scientists are confident that Jet’s progress, the creation of Step — which has been dubbed “Britain’s Apollo” — and the latest Livermore results show fusion is becoming a viable option for a true net zero power supply in the future. David Kingham, executive vice-chairman of Tokamak Energy, a UK-based company also using the magnetic confinement approach to fusion, told The Telegraph: “[This US result] has no direct implications for magnetic confinement, but it’s good to see the progress of essentially a rival fusion technology. “We’re pretty firm that magnetic confinement devices are the best way forward and give the best opportunity for commercial fusion energy in the next 10 to 15 years.” He added that the Livermore approach uses about 300MJ of energy to operate the lasers once daily and that there is a “target gain” of a small amount. “But overall the system is still very, very inefficient. It is a different approach and does not have the commercial potential that magnetic confinement fusion, particularly spherical tokamaks with high temperature superconductors, have.” William Morris, chief scientist at the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, which runs Step, said there were concerns that the Livermore laboratory’s breakthrough in December was a “one-off”. “It is very good that the result has been repeated and apparently exceeded,” he told The Telegraph. “This is especially impressive when the experiments are so technically demanding and provides another testament to the abilities of the NIF team. I look forward to learning more about the results in due course.”