Local news: Toni Collette had a rather awkward wardrobe malfunction during a recent press junket - but it might not be quite what you’re thinking. The 50-year-old was doing publicity with Italian actress Monica Bellucci for their new film, Mafia Mamma, when things went a little haywire. WATCH THE VIDEO ABOVE: Toni Collette announces split from husband. Know the news with the 7NEWS app: Download today  Collette had decided to wear a vivid green Maison Valentino pantsuit for a media day with Bellucci. But apparently no-one had told the actress that the filmed interviews would be done in front of a green screen. That meant she blended into her background - and, as the screen background changed to different colours, so did her dress. This left her, at times, looking like a floating head with no body attached. The Aussie actress shared some screen shots from the interviews to her Instagram, prompting much mirth from her fans and followers. “When nobody tells you that the Mafia Mamma press junket set involves a green screen and you wear your best Maison Valentino green jumpsuit to work,” she captioned the post. “Swipe for the result! “Thank you for your patience @monicabellucciofficiel.” Collette ended up having to do a wardrobe change, donning a black jacket and apricot-coloured top. “I can’t stop laughing at this. You are hilarious,” one fan wrote. “Cue the Toni floating head memes.” “The most gorgeous floating head I’ve ever seen,” added another. “This is awesome!!! Your outfit is stunning, though,” wrote a third. Collette’s new film comes just months after the popular actress announced she and her husband of almost 20 years, Dave Galafassi, had split. In December, Collette - who played the iconic role of Muriel in the 1994 film Muriel’s Wedding - took to Instagram to share the news alongside a photo showing the words “peace & love”. “It is with grace and gratitude that we announce we are divorcing,” Collette wrote. “We’re united in our decision and part with continuing respect and care for each other. “Our kids are of paramount importance to us and we will continue to thrive as a family, albeit a different shape. “We’re thankful for the space and love you grant us as we evolve and move through this transition peacefully.” The statement was signed off: “Big thanks. Toni Collette and David Galafassi”. Collette and Galafassi - a drummer - had been married almost 20 years after they wed in a Buddhist ceremony in 2003. They have two children, Sage Florence Galafassi and Arlo Robert Galafassi. For more engaging entertainment content, visit 7Life on Facebook. 3 min read 1 min read Stream free on 2 min read 3 min read 2 min read 2 min read 2 min read 1 min read 1 min read 1 min read 2 min read 3 min read 2 min read 2 min read 2 min read 1 min read 1 min read 1 min read Stay informed with the free 7NEWS app. Available on iOS & Android.