



Sign in or Subscribe 
See Offers



  Account Subscription: ACTIVE Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000. You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.  Learn more. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. Rhyan Paquereau   LOVELL — The Greater Lovell Land Trust recently promoted Rhyan Paquereau to stewardship director. He joined the land trust in 2020 with several years’ experience in the land trust field and holds a degree in parks and forest resources from Unity College. He has also become interim executive director of the trust, with Erika Rowland departing to a new role as eastern program development director for the Forest Stewards Guild. The responsibilities of Paquereau’s combined roles will encompass the foundational stewardship work and also the key components of directing the work of the land trust. He will oversee monitoring easements and lands, as well as creating and maintaining management plans for all land trust properties. Meanwhile, Jessie Lozanski will move from a seasonal role in stewardship to the year-round responsibilities of stewardship and education associate. The creation of this new position underscores the value of the work Lozanski has done with the land trust, including fieldwork on the newest land acquisitions. She also has done and education work with learners of all ages, from elementary school, through the Maine Environmental Science Academy middle school science program, to adult outings on the woodland trails, according to a news release from the trust. “The GLLT board is very pleased to see the members of our team taking the next step in their careers in the important fieldwork of environmental conservation. Rhyan has already made significant contributions to bringing several major projects to completion during his time with us, and Jessie is a versatile contributor to our work and our programs,” Jill Rundle, board president, said. Comments are no longer available on this story Send questions/comments to the editors. 

			« Previous		
 

			Next »
		
