Search CSP Daily News Canadian Tire Corp. Ltd. and Petro-Canada, a Suncor company, have formed a new partnership that includes the rebranding of more than 200 Canadian Tire Gas+ retail fuel sites to the Petro-Canada brand and make Suncor the primary fuel provider to the Canadian Tire network. It also includes a combination of the companies' respective loyalty programs. The partnership will increase the presence of Petro-Canada-branded stations across the country, establish a competitive fuel source for Canadian Tire and long-term fuel supply arrangement for Suncor and enhance the value of the loyalty program, the companies said. The companies will rebrand the stations over the next several years. They will launch the loyalty partnership in the fall of 2023. Canadian Tire will maintain ownership of the rebranded Canadian Tire’s Gas+ retail fuel network sites. The companies expect this rebrand to enhance existing site productivity, give Petro-Canada’s SuperPass commercial fleet program customers access to Canadian Tire’s network of stations and unlock future opportunities for Canadian Tire to leverage Suncor’s scale and operating infrastructure, including providing more products and services to customers, such as low-carbon energy alternatives, they said.. Suncor will become the primary fuel provider to Canadian Tire’s retail fuel network over time, eventually supplying more than 1 billion liters (264.172 million gallons) of fuel to the Canadian Tire retail fuel station network annually. This will result in a 17% increase in retail fuel sales volume for Petro-Canada compared to 2022 and will allow Canadian Tire to streamline its sourcing of fuel with Suncor, said the companies. A partnership between the two brands’ loyalty programs, Triangle Rewards, with more than 11 million active members, and Petro-Points, with more than 3 million active members, will deliver expanded benefits to members. Each company will retain full ownership and control of its respective loyalty program. “Through this new partnership, Canadian Tire Corp. will expand the reach of our Triangle Rewards program from over 200 gas stations to a network of more than 1,800, driving enhanced value for Canadians at the pumps by providing more opportunities for members to earn CT Money in a high-frequency category,” said Greg Hicks, president and CEO of Canadian Tire. “This is yet another way we’re creating valuable relationships through the power of Triangle, which is a key component of our growth strategy.” “This partnership is a tangible example of our commitment to optimize our retail network and expand strategic partnerships for Petro-Canada. It brings together Petro-Canada, the leading and most trusted gas station brand in Canada, with Canadian Tire Corp., an iconic Canadian retailer,” said Rich Kruger, president and CEO of Suncor. “This will provide long-term value to our shareholders by securing a long-term supply relationship for our refineries, while continuing to build on our brand.” Toronto-based Canadian Tire Corp. is a group of companies that includes a retail segment, a financial services division and real estate investment trust (REIT). Its retail business is led by Canadian Tire, founded in 1922, which provides products across its living, playing, fixing, automotive and seasonal and gardening divisions. Gas+, Party City and PartSource are key parts of the Canadian Tire network. The retail segment also includes Mark’s, a source for casual and industrial wear; Pro Hockey Life, a hockey specialty store; and SportChek, Hockey Experts, Sports Experts and Atmosphere, which offer active wear brands. The nearly 1,700 retail and gasoline outlets are supported by Canadian Tire’s Financial Services division. Calgary, Alberta-based Petro-Canada operates more than 1,500 retail stations and 300 Petro-Pass wholesale locations nationwide, including 61 marketing arrangements with Indigenous communities. In 2019, Petro-Canada opened Canada’s Electric Highway, a coast-to-coast network of electric vehicle (EV) chargers. Suncor is a major Canadian integrated energy company. Its operations include oil sands development, production and upgrading, offshore oil and gas production, petroleum refining in Canada and the United States and the company’s Petro-Canada retail and wholesale distribution networks. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a CSP member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest Related More on this Topic In latest store plan, convenience retailer condensing combustible cigarette section ‘more and more’ Protein, portion control and fresh fruit are increasingly at home alongside chips and candy Convenience retailers are increasingly making shelf space for local favorites Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024