OpenAI, most famous for its current ChatGPT technology, has been the inspiration for Intercom’s latest wave of customer service products, its co-founders say. Des Traynor, Intercom co-founder Intercom has launched new automated features using the same technology as ChatGPT, the company has announced. It says that this amounts to one of the “first practical and immediate applications” of the latest AI technology for the customer service industry. The new features allow customer support agents to write shorthand customer responses in the Intercom Inbox and “let the AI generate a complete suggested message” with its Expand and Rephrase capabilities. “Make More Formal” and “Make More Friendly” buttons allow company agents to change the tone of the message to “more casual and happy” or “more formal”. The buttons aim to allow companies to spend less time on composing messages to customers, Intercom says. Other new AI-powered features allow conversations between agents and customers to be summarised for handing off to subsequent support agents and long articles to be generated from summaries. “We believe the advances made in large language models, spearheaded by OpenAI and that have manifested in ChatGPT, will be the most significant change the customer service industry has experienced in decades,” said Des Traynor, co-founder and chief strategy officer at Intercom. “It’s a massive step towards a world where customer service is automation-first, a future we've been working towards for a few years.” Intercom says that over 25,000 global customers, including Atlassian, Amazon and Lyft Business use its services for customer services. The company says that it is used to send over 500 million messages per month with interactions with over 600 million monthly active end users. “We have been following all of the projects in this area over the years, but as we experimented with the most recent GPT release, we realised we have crossed a perceptual cliff here, and that a tectonic shift was beginning,” said Mr Traynor. “We quickly built and shipped many prototypes internally, ensuring we learned and iterated with each round of user feedback, and we've released our first wave of features based on GPT-3.5. We're excited to get this into the hands of our customers, but we’re just scratching the surface of what’s possible with this technology. We believe the capabilities won’t just be point solutions, but will create a technology that will sit across our entire customer service platform. We’re actively exploring what comes next.” Join the Irish Independent WhatsApp channel Stay up to date with all the latest news