With daily news of economic turbulence, write-downs, and mass layoffs among technology companies, and the cannabis industry hit particularly hard, Hytiva® is paving the way with stable growth and value-driven products, setting the new standard for technology businesses in the cannabis industry, based on old principles and a time-tested commitment to building the solutions the cannabis industry needs. MIAMI, Jan. 27, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Daily news of economic turbulence, write-downs, and mass layoffs have quickly spread throughout the technology space, with the cannabis industry hit particularly hard. Early entrants into the cannabis technology space became defined by companies with an intense focus on growing valuations by making news for expensive acquisitions and scaling to meet wild projections. They are now quickly being exposed for lack of attention to real products, services, and financial stability. Hytiva® chose a different path, setting a new standard for business and technology in the cannabis industry based on old principles and a long-term commitment to building the complete solutions the industry needs, from the ground up. Tom Clarke, CEO of Hytiva, commented: The industry must go through this phase, being over capitalized, over staffed, and basically doing it backwards. Many technology companies are downsizing and failing while Hytiva is growing and hiring daily. When building a technology business for the long term, you are hunting for problems to solve, gathering feedback from your customers, and creating real solutions. This is in direct contrast to the pump and dump business models with hyper-inflated VC valuations that we see today. A Suite of Technology and Services Hytiva's mature portfolio of companies is unlike most corporate portfolios, often built by an accumulation of mergers and acquisitions. Every Hytiva® company (including media, technology, delivery services, logistics, production services, and more) was founded to serve a specific need in the cannabis industry, creating solutions to generate revenue independently and ensure stability throughout the portfolio for Hytiva and its clients. Each Hytiva company shares a consistent vision and complementary technology. As a result, Hytiva offers a greater range of tools than any other cannabis technology company, and Hytiva has the ability to tailor its offerings to support a wide range of uses. The Hytiva product portfolio includes: Hytiva's Problem Solving Approach Hytiva approached the cannabis industry differently, with a long-term plan to listen, problem-solve, and build unique solutions for the industry based on a wealth of experience in technology and business. Hytiva recognized that the young cannabis industry needed more than the niche solutions built by modifying pre-existing products from other industries that many other cannabis technology companies provide. Hytiva began by offering consumer information and delivery services, all the while gathering information at a level the industry had not seen. Hytiva embedded itself into the industry with open ears to listen to cannabis consumers at a personal level and clients in their daily operations, with the goal of turning their frustrations into real products and restarting the problem/solution cycle again. Media Contact Hytiva Media, Hytiva Technologies, LLC, 1 305-701-1652 Ext: x100, [email protected]   SOURCE  Hytiva Technologies, LLC