Paulista - stock.adobe.com NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center has begun work with IBM to use artificial intelligence (AI) technology to discover new insights in its Earth and geospatial science data. The joint effort will apply AI foundation model technology to NASA’s Earth-observing satellite data for the first time. These observations are used by scientists to study and monitor Earth. NASA said the data is being collected unprecedented rates and volume, hence it needs new approaches to extract knowledge from these growing data resources. The pair plan to develop an easier way for researchers to analyse and draw insights from the large datasets, based on IBM’s foundation model technology. According to IBM, foundation models are types of AI models that are trained on a broad set of unlabelled data, can be used for different tasks, and can apply information about one situation to another. These models have rapidly advanced the field of natural language processing (NLP) technology over the past five years, and IBM is pioneering applications of foundation models beyond language. “The beauty of foundation models is they can potentially be used for many downstream applications,” said Rahul Ramachandran, senior research scientist at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. “Building these foundation models cannot be tackled by small teams. You need teams across different organisations to bring their different perspectives, resources and skillsets.”  IBM and NASA plan to develop several new technologies to extract insights from Earth observations. One project will train an IBM geospatial intelligence foundation model on NASA’s Harmonized Landset-Sentinel-2 (HLS) dataset, a record of land cover and land use changes captured by Earth-orbiting satellites. By analysing petabytes of satellite data to identify changes in the geographic footprint of phenomena such as natural disasters, cyclical crop yields and wildlife habitats, IBM and NASA hope this foundation model technology will help researchers provide critical analysis of our planet’s environmental systems. NASA will also be working with IBM to make Earth science literature easily searchable. IBM has developed a natural language processing (NLP) model trained on nearly 300,000 Earth science journal articles to organise the literature and make it easier to discover new knowledge. According to IBM, this represents the largest AI workload trained on Red Hat’s OpenShift software. The fully trained model uses PrimeQA, IBM’s open source multilingual question-answering system. Beyond providing a resource to researchers, the new language model for Earth science will be built into NASA’s scientific data management and stewardship processes. Another potential IBM-NASA joint project is the construction of a foundation model for weather and climate prediction using MERRA2, a dataset of atmospheric observations. This collaboration is part of NASA’s Open Source Science Initiative, a commitment to building an inclusive, transparent and collaborative open science community over the next decade.  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
