Nasdaq today revealed that it's doling out $10.5 billion to acquire Adenza, a company that develops risk-management and related regulatory software for the financial services market. The megabucks deal, which constitues an even mix of cash and stock, will extend Nasdaq's serviceable addressable market (SAM) to $34 billion, the company said in press release today, $10 billion more than what it is today. The deal also sits among the biggest acquisitions of the year so far, second only to Qualtrics' $12.5 billion acquisition announced a few months back. Adenza emerged from two acquisitions that Thoma Bravo made in the past few years. The private-equity powerhouse snapped up AxiomSL in 2020 followed by Calypso Technology the following year, before merging the two companies under the new Adenza brand in late 2021. With dual headquarters in London and New York, Adenza serves banks, insurance firms, broker-dealers, and similar financial service companies with an end-to-end platform spanning everything from data management to reporting, available either via an on-premises installation or the cloud. With Adenza under its wing, Nasdaq -- which operates three stock exchanges in the U.S. and seven in Europe -- said it will be better positioned to provide "comprehensive support to financial institutions" across regulatory technology, compliance and risk management. "This is an exceptional opportunity to acquire a leading software company that enhances Nasdaq’s position at the heart of the global financial system," Nasdaq chair and CEO Adena Friedman said in a statement. "The acquisition of Adenza brings together two world-class franchises steeped in market infrastructure, regulatory, and risk management expertise at a time when financial institutions are navigating some of the most complex market dynamics in history. From fast-evolving global regulations to rapidly increasing pressures to modernize infrastructure, our clients are seeking trusted partners equipped to support them in this challenging environment." Nasdaq said it expects to close the deal within the next nine months. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?