CHILLICOTHE — When Sheridan has a double-digit lead in the fourth quarter, it's usually time to kiss the baby. Eleven straight district tournament victims can attest. The Generals were well on their way to a 12th with a 46-32 lead entering the fourth quarter on unbeaten, second-seeded Chillicothe Unioto. Then Milee Smith became Supergirl. Smith, a 5-11 freshman already being courted by major Division I college programs, scored 12 points in the final 2:09, part of a 24-point outburst over the final 11:30. Her last bucket proved most important — an 8-foot tip-in as time expired that sent the Shermans to a pulsating 57-55 win at Chillicothe Southeastern. "For a freshman to do that? That is unreal," Unioto coach Jeff Miller said. "She just kind of willed us down the stretch there." Unioto (25-0) reached its first regional since 2015. It will match unbeaten records with top-seeded Proctorville Fairland, which rolled past Fairfield Union in the first semifinal, at 6 p.m. on Tuesday at Zanesville's Winland Memorial Gymnasium. It was Sheridan's first loss at Southeastern since a semifinal loss to Miami Trace in 2017. The Generals, who finished 22-3, had 10 straight wins in that gym entering Friday. That was a concern for Miller, whose 2019 team fell to Sheridan in the semifinals at Southeastern. "That Sheridan team is elite in everything they do," Miller said. "They do things right. They had been in this five straight times, so they had a lot of experience. But like I told our girls, you can't win a sixth title without winning that first one." It took every bit of willpower the Shermans, who rarely faced a deficit in prior games, could muster to have a chance. Sheridan held the lead for almost three full quarters in a game it made seven 3-pointers — Jamisyn Stinson hit five among her team-high 23 points — and led by as many as 12 in the first half. Stinson's basket off a home run pass as time expired in the third sent her team up 14 entering the fourth. They still led 51-42 after Stinson's 3 with 3:10 left, and 53-45 when Payton Powell scored from the block off a press breaker with 2:32 to play. That's when the leaves turned. Smith sandwiched a layup and two free throws around a turnover, cutting the lead to 53-50 with 1:21 remaining — the first time Unioto had been within a basket since the end of the first quarter. It was still 55-50 after Ava Heller sank both ends of a 1-and-1 with 30 seconds left, as the Generals simply needed to get the ball up court and make free throws to survive. That never materialized. Smith hit a 3 the next time down, then converted a layup and drew a foul after Sheridan turned it over on the inbounds pass. She missed the free throw, though, and the Generals got the rebound. With just 11.2 seconds left, it set the stage for a potential last-second shot for Sheridan, which called timeout with :05.2 still showing to strategize. Stinson, Sheridan's top free throw shooter, got the ball in the middle of the floor and tried to dribble up court to set up the final scene. But Smith poked the ball away, and she recovered in time to put up a foul-line jumper that was off target. That's when her last-gasp tip found the back of the rim and trickled in, setting off a bedlam-type scene that saw the Unioto bench and many of its fans storm the court. When normalcy was finally restored, officials ruled the basket good after convening. As they darted out of the gym like kids on the last day of school, one side of the gym rejoiced. The other was full of vitriol. It was last March at UD Arena when Norton's game-winning shot was waved off after instant replay from Spectrum News 1 was utilized. Sheridan emerged with a triple-overtime win. It was a point Sheridan coach J.D. Walters hammered home to his players. "It was almost the same thing," Walters said. "You had the highs of that game, and a lot of them experienced that. Obviously, tonight was the opposite of that." It was some 30 seconds after Smith's tip went through and traffic was cleared that the officials deemed it good. "At least they talked about it and came to a consensus," Walters said. "One person did call it good right away, and it was probably too close to overturn it. I thought it looked good from where I was, but it was hard to tell. It was a heck of a play." Sheridan finished with 20 turnovers, with four coming in the final 1:30 that resulted in eight points. They had eight in the final quarter in all, as Unioto never wavered from the full-court pressure it has continually embraced. Unioto hit five 3s after falling behind 39-24 with 3:35 left in the third quarter. Smith had only seven points to that point, as sophomore guard Ava Heller handled the defending. But she went down with an ankle injury with Sheridan still leading by 12 late in the quarter. She re-entered later in the game, but the rabbit-quick Smith had already found her groove. Regardless of who guarded her, she regularly got straight-line drives, much like she did in the win against New Lexington in the semifinals. Sheridan tried four different defenders, to no avail. The Generals were outscored 25-9 in the fourth, with Smith getting 19. "But the thing is she kept getting to her right hand, and then she'd get to the offensive boards," Walters said. "She did a little of everything. She hit (two) 3s, but most was offensive boards and getting to the basket. We tried pinching into the gaps, and she'd kick out for a couple of big shots. They had all of the momentum, and we turned it over way too much in that fourth quarter." Saffell had an eight-point first quarter with dominant inside play among her 14 points, while Heller had 12 with a pair of 3s. No other Unioto player scored more than seven points, which lefty Amaris Betts amassed with a big transition 3 in the fourth. Unioto, which had eight turnovers, also shot 16 free throws to Sheridan's seven, missing half. The physical, loosely-called game played perfectly into the hands of Unioto's press. "I think you have to go in and test it, see how the game is going to be called," Miller said. "If they're not going to be calling anything, then you have to use that to your advantage. We were able to be aggressive." Both teams return most of their top players. Sheridan loses post player Katelyn Moss but has its top seven regulars back, including three players with three years of varsity experience. Smith, top scorer Betts and defensive stopper Alexis Book are are among six linchpins back for the Shermans. With powerhouse Fairland also dominated by underclassmen, the path to Zanesville will be even more treacherous. "It's going to be just like this again next year," Miller said. Walters concurred, adding he just hopes his team can stay healthy. That didn't happen this year, as senior Mylie Forgrave, expected to have an impact season, was lost for the season with a knee injury before a game was played. Warner, their No. 2 scorer, missed the final month with a high ankle sprain and returned in limited fashion for Unioto. Heller was the next to take the fall. Walters said they were the team's top three defenders. "It's going to be the same top teams as long as everybody stays healthy," Walters said. "I told the girls, you have to a moment and (savor it), because you never know. Macie didn't think she wouldn't play this year, Hallie didn't think she was going to hurt herself in the Tri-Valley game. You just never know. That's why you can't waste opportunities. You hate losing this opportunity." sblackbu@gannett.com; Twitter: @SamBlackburnTR This article originally appeared on Zanesville Times Recorder: Milee Smith's buzzer-beater stuns Sheridan girls basketball Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Get ready for the most fun you'll ever have in school. Our courses have something for everyone from beginner to seasoned pro. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season.