CHILLICOTHE — The state of Ohio recently released school report cards for the 2022-2023 school year. These grades give a look into how each school district is doing. Schools are ranked in five categories: achievement, progress, early literacy, gap closing and graduation. Schools are rated out of five stars using half-star increments. According to the Ohio Department of Education, almost 90% of school districts met performance expectations of three stars or higher. Only two districts in Ross County did not meet this standard, Chillicothe City and Adena Local. The department noted in a news release that achievement is climbing statewide and though chronic absenteeism is down from last year, 26.8% from 30.2%, it is still a concern as engagement impacts success in school. In Ross County, the districts with the highest overall rating were Southeastern and Union-Scioto with four stars. Paint Valley received five stars in progress and Union-Scioto received five stars in gap closing. Chillicothe City received one star in graduation and Adena and Zane Trace received one star in progress, See last year's report cards: How did Ross County schools do on their state report card? Chillicothe City received a total rating of two and a half stars. In achievement the district scored two stars, in progress the district scored two stars, in gap closing the district scored three stars, in graduation the district scored one star and in early literacy the district scored two stars. Adena received a total rating of two and a half stars. In achievement the district scored three stars, in progress the district scored one star, in gap closing the district scored three stars, in graduation the district scored two stars and in early literacy the district scored two stars. Huntington received a total rating of three stars. In achievement the district scored two stars, in progress the district scored three stars, in gap closing the district scored five stars, in graduation the district scored two stars and in early literacy the district scored two stars. Paint Valley received a total rating of three and a half stars. In achievement the district scored three stars, in progress the district scored five stars, in gap closing the district scored three stars, in graduation the district scored two stars and in early literacy the district scored two stars. Southeastern received a total rating of four stars. In achievement the district scored four stars, in progress the district scored three stars, in gap closing the district scored four stars, in graduation the district scored three stars and in early literacy the district scored four stars. Union-Scioto received a total rating of four stars. In achievement the district scored four stars, in progress the district scored four stars, in gap closing the district scored five stars, in graduation the district scored two stars and in early literacy the district scored three stars. Zane Trace received a total rating of three stars. In achievement the district scored three stars, in progress the district scored one star, in gap closing the district scored three stars, in graduation the district scored four stars and in early literacy the district scored three stars. Shelby Reeves is a reporter for the Chillicothe Gazette. You can email her at SReeves@gannett.com or follow her on Twitter @Shelby_Reeves_ This article originally appeared on Chillicothe Gazette: How did local schools do on the annual report card New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.