Jan. 19—Having a sense of where her family came from is how genealogy lab volunteer Pamela Moore said she feels each time she steps into the lab. "It's rewarding, and it's part of my identity as an African American, given the history of perseverance of our ancestors," Moore said. "Just to be a part of going back and making the connections." As a way to connect people like Moore with their family's past, the genealogy lab at the Center for African American History, Art and Culture in Aiken helps people get started researching family history. Open Monday through Friday, people can research their genealogy. Volunteers are available from 10 a.m. to noon on Fridays to assist. The lab uses a free family tree program called familysearch.org. The computers and website access were provided by the local Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The lab is run by volunteers and holds training sessions the second Saturday of the month at 10:30 a.m. and noon to help people in the community get started with their research. Juanita Campbell, the center's executive director,said people must attend a training before they can use the genealogy lab without assistance. "Some people hit a brick wall in their own research and we try to piggyback on that, do the research and contact them to give them the information to get them started," volunteer Sheire Kinney said. Moore said she likes how she can help people with their research, while learning about her own family. "Most people walk out of here wanting to do more and are excited to learn something else about their family history," Moore said. Moore said during a family reunion in July 2022, she was able to share her genealogy research with a relative in his 80s and confirm a story of how a family member died with a death certificate. "He was just in awe because he had heard the stories, but didn't know the name ... just kind of repeating stories," she said. "Just personal and passionate stories like that keep us coming back each Friday." Kinney said she was able to trace her family history as far back as France and England before arriving in Virginia. She said looking at the death certificates of relatives was emotional for her. Volunteer Maggie Daley became aware of the genealogy lab after attending a Juneteenth event in 2021 and has been volunteering since. She helped a young man find out that his surname went back six generations. "It validates these family stories so they're not lost," Daley said. Moore said being an African American, she wondered where her roots came from, how did her family get here and what jobs they had besides being a farmer. "It gives me a sense of self-identity, self-pride and self-worth for me," Moore. Kinney said it has given her a different look at the history and made her realize not all Blacks were slaves; some had jobs working in Congress and it was more than just slavery. Volunteer Kathleen Wheatley said she likes how learning about genealogy has connected her with people she would have never met otherwise. "I think our family history center right here can be a big part of that and to connect people and we are alike," she said. Moore said one thing she wants people is that learning about genealogy and family history will bring a sense of pride and help people find out who they are beyond what is told to them. "When they were able to find out something significant and prideful about their family, it gave them who they are," Moore said. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.