Week 7 of the 2023 NFL season kicked off with the Jacksonville Jaguars topping the New Orleans Saints 31-24 on "Thursday Night Football." Trevor Lawrence did play after being questionable all week with a knee injury. He delivered by going 20-for-29 with 204 passing yards and one touchdown as the Jaguars improved to 5-2 in the AFC South. After some uncertainty, the Cleveland Browns will have both Deshaun Watson and Kareem Hunt in Week 7. Watson is returning from a shoulder injury that caused him to miss the last two weeks. Two quarterbacks who will not play Sunday are Jimmy Garoppolo of the Las Vegas Raiders and Justin Fields of the Chicago Bears. Garoppolo suffered a back injury during their Week 6 win over the New England Patriots, meaning Aidan O'Connell or Brian Hoyer will be under center when they face the Chicago Bears. For the Bears, Justin Fields has been ruled out after he dislocated his thumb against the Minnesota Vikings. There's no timetable on a return, but one thing is for sure, according to NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, surgery will not be needed. "The key to when he can get back on the field is when he is able to grip the football, moderately important for a quarterback," Rapoport reported. The rest of the late game NFL Week 7 injury list is below. DL Charles Harris CB Jerry Jacobs WR Marvin Jones Jr. DL Brodric Martin DL Levi Onwuzurike RB David Montgomery OG Jonah Jackson S Marcus Williams LB Jeremiah Moon C Sam Mustipher G Sala Aumavae-Laulu QB Josh Johnson CB Kevon Seymour CB Jakorian Bennett QB Jimmy Garoppolo CB Nate Hobbs LB Amari Burney WR Kristian Wilkerson DT Nesta Jade Silvera QB Justin Fields RB Roschon Johnson OL Nate Davis DB Eddie Jackson DB Terell Smith OL Dan Feeney QB Dorian Thompson-Robinson WR Cedric Tillman CB Kahlef Hailassie S Ronnie Hickman LB Sione Takitaki DE Isaiah McGuire DT Siaki Ika CB Ameer Speed DE Isaiah Land G Ike Boettger RT Braden Smith TE Kylen Granson S Damar Hamlin LB AJ Klein G Germain Ifedi T Alec Anderson TE Quintin Morris DT Ed Oliver T Calvin Anderson WR Kayshon Boutte QB Malik Cunningham QB Will Grier WR JuJu Smith-Schuster LB Josh Uche DL Keion White CB Christian Holmes DE KJ Henry OL Trent Scott G Chris Paul TE Curtis Hodges WR Mitchell Tinsley DE Efe Obaba QB Daniel Jones CB Adoree' Jackson C John Michael Schmitz T Evan Neal T Matt Peart T Andrew Thomas DT Jordon Riley QB Logan Woodside CB Clark Phillips OL Jovaughn Gwyn DL Eli Ankou TE John FitzPatrick DL Albert Huggins DL Joe Gaziano DL Patrick O'Connor CB Derrek Pitts T Brandon Walton OLB Markees Watts TE David Wells QB Mason Rudolph (3rd QB) CB Darius Rush T Dylan Cook NT Breiden Fehoko OLB Nick Hampton RB Myles Gaskin DL Larrell Murchison OL Zach Thomas OT Warren McClendon WR Zach Pascal S Qwuantrezz Knight CB Antonio Hamilton Sr. S Jalen Thompson LB Jesse Luketa OL Carter O'Donnell OL Elijah Wilkinson LB Devin Bush WR DK Metcalf CB Artie Burns RB Zach Charbonnet G Phil Haynes C Evan Brown T Raiqwon O'Neal WR Malik Heath CB Jaire Alexander S Zayne Anderson LB De'Vondre Campbell T Caleb Jones S JL Skinner CB Riley Moss LB Thomas Incoom C Alex Forsyth NT Keondre Coburn DE Elijah Garcia S Mark Webb, Jr. S Alohi Gilman CB Deane Leonard RB Elijah Dotson OL Zack Bailey TE Tre' McKitty DL Christopher Hinton DE BJ Thompson OL Mike Caliendo WR Justin Watson DT Neil Farrell DE Malik Herring CB Xavien Howard (groin): questionable FB Alec Ingold (foot): questionable OL Connor Williams (groin): questionable CB Jalen Ramsay (knee): out S Reed Blankenship (ribs): out CB Bradley Roby (shoulder): out RB Christian McCaffrey (oblique): did not practice LB Dre Greenlawn (hamstring): did not practice WR Deebo Samuel (shoulder): did not practice LT Trent Williams (ankle): did not practice G Ezra Cleveland (foot): did not practice CB Akayleb Evans (oblique): limited Pat Jones II (shoulder): limited Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.