FEB 15 BILLS SEASON TICKETS PRICES RISE If you want to go to a Buffalo Bills game in 2024, you're going to have to pay a pretty penny. The Buffalo News is reporting that season ticket prices could have a 10 percent increase in the upcoming season. With a new stadium on the horizon and the Bills keeping up in the AFC playoff race, Buffalo fans are going to have to show the franchise the money to get into the stadium. FEB 8 JOSH ALLEN AMONG MVP FINALISTS Tonight, we find out if Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen will be named the league's Most Valuable Player at the NFL Honors in Las Vegas. Allen is nominated alongside Lamar Jackson, Christian McCaffrey, Dak Prescott and Brock Purdy. The NFL Honors airs at 9 p.m. ET on CBS and can be streamed on Paramount+ and NFL+. The Red Carpet Show will air on NFL Network at 8 p.m. ET. JAN 24 DAMAR NOMINATED FOR COMMUNITY AWARD Buffalo Bills defensive back Damar Hamlin has had a whirlwind of a year, but it's ending in being recognized by the NFL. Per FOX Sports reporter Greg Auman, Hamlin is one of five nominees for the NFLPA's Alan Page Community Award, which honors public service in local communities. Hamlin won the award last year and received a $100,000 donation for the Chasing M's Foundation. Per their website, the foundation is "dedicated to the development, health and safety of youth through sports, engagement activities, training and programming." Hamlin is nominated alongside Calais Campbell (Atlanta Falcons), Charles Leno Jr. (Washington Commanders), Frank Ragnow (Detroit Lions) and Harrison Phillips (Minnesota Vikings). JAN 21 BILLS LINEBACKER CRISIS? The Buffalo Bills entered Sunday's AFC Divisional against the Kansas City Chiefs already dealing with a shortage of linebackers, with just four active, and almost had their depth trimmed even shorter after Tyrel Dotson entered the medical tent in the first half.  However, luckily for Buffalo, Dodson was able to return to the field just a few plays after going down. The Bills cannot afford more attrition at linebacker after both Terrel Bernard and Baylon Spector were listed as inactive pregame.  The Bills lead the Chiefs 10-6 in the second quarter. JAN 17 BILLS SIGN MATT HAACK; NO SAM MARTIN? The Buffalo Bills are adding some reinforcements at the punting position. According to ESPN's Adam Schefter, the team is signing punter Matt Haack, who was with the team in 2021. Haack could play in Sunday's Divisional Round game against the Kansas City Chiefs if Sam Martin is unable to go with his hamstring injury. JAN 15 BILLS VS STEELERS INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills and Pittsburgh Steelers have released their gameday inactives for today's Wild Card playoff matchup at Highmark Stadium.  Here's who's out for Buffalo: - WR Gabe Davis  - S Taylor Rapp - LB Tyrel Dodson - CB Rasul Douglas  - DE Kinglsey Jonathan - OL Alec Anderson  - DT Poona Ford Here's who's out for the Steelers:  - QB Mitch Trubisky (3rd QB)  - CB Darius Rush  - S Elijah Riley  - LB Blake Martinez  - T Dylan Cook  - LB T.J. Watt  - DE DeMarvin Leal JAN 10 DEONTE HARTY EARNS AFC SPECIAL TEAMS PLAYER OF THE WEEK Deonte Harty's historic punt return now has an accolade to back it up. Harty was named the AFC Special Teams Player of the Week for the first time in his career for his 96-yard punt return for a touchdown in the Buffalo Bills' 21-14 win over the Miami Dolphins on Sunday at Hard Rock Stadium. The win clinched the AFC East for the fourth-straight season for Buffalo and the No. 2 seed in the playoffs.  Harty's 96-yard punt return was the longest in team history. With Buffalo trailing 14-7 with 14:02 left in the fourth quarter, Harty fielded the put near his end zone, found a seam and ran 96 yards to tie the game.  Buffalo hosts the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday at 1 p.m. ET at Highmark Stadium in the Wild Card round of the AFC Playoffs.  JAN 3 TYREEK HILL HOUSE CATCHES FIRE Miami Dolphins receiver Tyreek Hill's house caught on fire while the star receiver was at practice on Wednesday.  Hill's family managed to leave the house and is safe, according to the Dolphins. Hill left practice early and later arrived at his home in a walking boot.  The Bills play the Dolphins in a battle for the AFC East title on Sunday at 8:20 p.m. ET at Hard Rock Stadium. JAN 3 RASUL DOUGLAS HONORED Buffalo Bills cornerback Rasul Douglas is garnering attention from the league. The NFL announced Wednesday that Douglas was named the AFC Defensive Player of the Week for Week 17. Douglas recorded his third multi-interception game of his career (second this season) against the New England Patriots, including one for a touchdown. DEC 29 BILLS FRIDAY REPORT The Buffalo Bills have revealed their Friday injury report and listed four players questionable for Sunday's meeting with the New England Patriots at Highmark Stadium.  The Bills are listing defensive end A.J. Epenesa (rib), safety Damar Hamlin (shoulder), defensive tackle DaQuan Jones (pec), and receiver Justin Shorter (hamstring) as questionable.  DEC 27 SANTA JOSH! It's customary for players to give their game-worn gear to fans who are still in the stands after the game, especially after a win.  That was the case last Saturday for a young fan at SoFi Stadium, who was hoping for Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen's hat. However, Allen gave his hat to another young fan next to him, prompting some disappointment ... until the next morning. Allen was able to contact the kid he missed, apologizing for not giving him gear and promising to send him something in return. Here's a clip of the exchange ... Allen and the Bills hope to give their fans another late Christmas gift ... a playoff berth, which they could clinch on Sunday with a win against the New England Patriots. Kickoff is scheduled for 1 p.m. ET. DEC 23 BILLS VS CHARGERS INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills and Los Angeles Chargers have revealed their inactives list ahead of Saturday's matchup at SoFi Stadium.  Both teams already ruled out key players earlier in the week.  Here's who's out for the Bills:  - S Micah Hyde - RB Ty Johnson - DE A.J. Epenesa  - OL Germain Ifedi - OL Alec Anderson Here's who's out for the Chargers:  - QB Max Duggan - WR Keenan Allen - S JT Woods - DB Deane Leonard - TE Donald Parham Jr. DEC 17 BILLS SCORE The Buffalo Bills are on the board first against the Dallas Cowboys at Highmark Stadium on Sunday.  Bills quarterback Josh Allen and running back James Cook led Buffalo on an impressive 12-play, 75-yard opening touchdown drive that ended with a two-yard touchdown from Latavius Murray to build a 7-0 lead.  Allen found Stefon Diggs for a pair of completions while Cook had five carries for 34 yards.  Here's a look at Murray's touchdown:  DEC 14 COWBOYS USING PICTURES OF BILLS AT PRACTICE The Dallas Cowboys are leaving no stone unturned in their preparation for the Buffalo Bills.  Dallas (10-3) has gone the lengths of placing pictures of Bills players on practice equipment. Among the Bills players on the Cowboys' practice equipment are safety Jordan Poyer and linebacker Tyrel Dodson with his old number.  Buffalo (7-6) faces the Cowboys on Sunday at 4:25 p.m. ET at Highmark Stadium. DEC 12 JUSTIN HERBERT OUT FOR SEASON The Buffalo Bills' path to the playoffs has gotten much clearer in the last two days.  Buffalo faces the Los Angeles Chargers (5-8) on Dec. 23 at SoFi Stadium, and they'll be without quarterback Justin Herbert. Herbert suffered a broken index finger on his right hand in the first half of the Chargers' 24-7 loss to the Denver Broncos on Sunday and will be out for the rest of the season after having surgery to repair the injury.  In Herbert's absence, Easton Stick will likely be getting the start once Week 16 rolls around. However, per ESPN's Adam Schefter, the Chargers signed rookie quarterback Max Duggan off the practice squad Tuesday. He could be the QB2 when the Bills visit SoFi Stadium. Herbert had been one of the lone bright spots on a disappointing Chargers team, throwing for 3,134 yards, 20 touchdowns and seven interceptions. Having to face Stick rather than Herbert makes the Bills' push for the playoffs much more viable. Before heading to Los Angeles, the Bills face the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday at 4:25 p.m. ET at Highmark Stadium.  DEC 10 KELCE LATERAL CALLED BACK The Buffalo Bills secured a crucial 20-17 win over the Kansas City Chiefs at Arrowhead on Sunday night, but they nearly lost in heart-breaking fashion again.  Trailing by three in the final two minutes, it seemed like Patrick Mahomes, Travis Kelce and Co. would inevitably lead the Chiefs down the field for a game-winning drive. Kelce nearly made this come to fruition on a play you won't see everyday.  After catching a 25-yard pass that got the Chiefs into field-goal range, Kelce made the bold decision to toss a perfect backwards pass to Kadarius Toney, who caught it in stride and ran in for what looked like a miracle go-ahead touchdown.  But it was all a mute point from the start, as Toney had lined up a few inches offside, which drew a five-yard penalty and brought the touchdown back. The Bills forced a stop a few plays later and were able to line up in victory formation to end the game. Take a look at Kelce's lateral: DEC 10 JOSH ALLEN TD TIES TWO RECORDS Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen gave his team a 14-0 lead with a powerful six-yard rushing touchdown in the second quarter of Sunday's meeting with the Kansas City Chiefs.  He also tied two NFL records while doing so, per Bills PR. "Josh Allen runs six yards for his 48th career rushing TD, tying Cam Newton (48) for most among NFL QBs in his first six seasons. This also marks Allen's ninth game this season with a rushing & passing TD, tying Kyler Murray (2020) for the most such games in a single season," the team tweeted.  Allen is also now just the third player ever to post 25+ passing touchdowns and 10+ rushing touchdowns in one season, joining Newton and Murray again. Take a look:   DEC 10 WYCHECK DEAD AT 52 Frank Wycheck, known in Buffalo as a key figure in the infamous "Music City Miracle,'' has died at the age of 52. The long-time Titans standout, who played 11 seasons in the NFL and made three Pro Bowls, apparently fell at his home on Saturday. It was Wycheck who passed the cross-field backward throw to teammate Kevin Dyson during the AFC Wild Card game against the Bills on Jan. 8, 2000. ... with Dyson then running 75 yards for a touchdown in Buffalo's playoff loss. Wycheck is survived by two adult daughters, Deanna and Madison, both married, and three grandchildren - Leo, Stevie and August. DEC 9 CHIEFS ACTIVATE LINEBACKER AHEAD OF GAME VS. BILLS An injury-riddled Kansas City Chiefs (8-4) team will get a boost on the defensive side of the ball on Sunday against the Buffalo Bills at Arrowhead.  The Chiefs activated linebacker Nick Bolton off of the Injured Reserve on Saturday. Bolton has dealt with a bevy of injuries this season, limiting him to just four games. A dislocated wrist required surgery and landed him on the IR for Kansas City's last five games. Bolton was second in the NFL with 180 tackles last season.  The Chiefs will be without running back Isiah Pacheco (shoulder), offensive tackle Donovan Smith (neck), linebacker Drue Tranquill (concussion) and defensive back Bryan Cook (ankle).  Every active player for Buffalo enters Sunday without an injury designation. Bills tight end Dawson Knox is questionable after being on the IR for the last five games with a wrist injury.  Buffalo faces Kansas City at 4:25 p.m. ET on Sunday at Arrowhead Stadium. DEC 8 BILLS FINING SHAQ LAWSON Per NFL Network's Tom Pelissero, the Buffalo Bills are fining defensive end Shaq Lawson an undisclosed amount for shoving a fan at Lincoln Financial Field during Buffalo's 37-34 overtime loss to the Philadelphia Eagles on Nov. 26.  Video showed Lawson, defensive tackle Jordan Phillips and other Bills players approach and get in the face of an Eagles fan sitting on the front row. Most notably, there was visible back-and-forth between Phillips and the fan. Phillips later claimed that the fan was making threats toward him and his family, which resulted in his emotional reaction.  Phillips has not been fined by the Bills or the NFL.  Here's a look at the interaction:  DEC 6 DAWSON KNOX DESIGNATED TO RETURN The Buffalo Bills are getting healthy at the right time as they prepare for a playoff push.  Bills tight end Dawson Knox was designated to return from the Injured Reserve on Wednesday and had his 21-day practice window opened. Knox has been out since Oct. 26 with a wrist injury that required surgery.  Second-year cornerback Kaiir Elam (ankle) was also designated to return from the IR and had his 21-day practice window opened.  Cornerback Dane Jackson (concussion) and Taylor Rapp (neck) returned to practice as full participants on Wednesday. Outside linebacker Von Miller was out with a veteran rest day.  DEC  5 'WE'LL BE BACK!'  Aaron Rodgers held court on Tuesday as he does a weekly on the "Pat McAfee Show," and among this week's pronouncements offered a "state of the state'' position on his New York Jets, along with having made a promise to fans in the Big Apple. "This has been a (bleep) season, for sure,'' he said on the ESPN-based telecast. "But we will be back." The Buffalo Bills at this moment do not have too much AFC East room to crow, as they sit at a disappointing 6-6. And of course a return to the field of Rodgers, 40 - you know, the return he promised would come this season in the form of a modern medical miracle rehab of his "torn Achilles''? - will be a major story. But given that this is Rodgers' first season in New York, and given that the Jets are in the midst of an eighth consecutive losing season, a skeptic cannot help but wonder ... "The Jets will be back ... to what?!'' NOV. 30 ARREST WARRANT ISSUED FOR VON MILLER; BILLS ISSUE STATEMENT - Bills' star Von Miller faces an arrest in a domestic violence case in Dallas, multiple police sources told TV station WFAA on Thursday morning. Sources say Miller's longtime girlfriend has accused him of assaulting her at their home in Dallas on Wednesday morning. Sources told WFAA that his attorney has been contacted about the case and that a warrant has been issued for Miller's arrest. As of 9 a.m. Thursday, Miller, 34, had not been arrested. Sources told WFAA that the warrant was for a charge of assaulting a pregnant person, which is a third-degree felony. The Bills issued a statement Thursday morning:  “This morning, we were made aware of an incident involving Von Miller. We are in the process of gathering more information and will have no further comment at this point.” Miller, a native of the Dallas suburb of DeSoto, and the Bills have a Bye this week. NOV 27 NEW ANGLE OF BILLS VS EAGLES FAN The Buffalo Bills are certainly frustrated following their heartbreaking 37-34 overtime loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, but there's some added emotion for some players on the defense after there was a mid-game altercation with a fan on the sidelines. While the Buffalo offense was on the field, video caught Bills defensive tackle Jordan Phillips getting right up in the face of a fan that was sitting on the front row behind the Bills bench. Dan Fetes of 13WHAM ABC in Rochester got a crystal-clear view of the argument on the sidelines. The fan was mocking Phillips before other Bills joined in and pulled him away and back to the bench. Take a look at Fetes' video: Buffalo Bills defensive tackle Jordan Phillips confronts a Philadelphia Eagles fan. @danfetes - X NOV 26 BILLS VS EAGLES INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills have revealed their inactives list for Sunday's road meeting with the Philadelphia Eagles at Lincoln Financial Field. Bills receiver/returner Deonte Harty, who signed with Buffalo in free agency this past offseason, is a healthy scratch. He'll miss his first game of the season after playing in all 11 contests headed into Week 12.  Eagles star offensive tackle Lane Johnson is out due to a groin injury, which is big news for Leonard Floyd, Von Miller and the Bills' pass rush.  Here's Buffalo full inactives list:  - CB Dane Jackson  - S Taylor Rapp - WR Deonte Harty - OG Germain Ifedi - OL Alec Anderson  - DT Poona Ford  - LB A.J. Klien NOV 25 BILLS ELEVATE ANDY ISABELLA AND JA'MARCUS INGRAM The Buffalo Bills have made roster moves ahead of their game against the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday.  Receiver Andy Isabella and cornerback Ja'Marcus Ingram were elevated from the practice squad on Saturday. Isabella has bounced up and down from the practice squad throughout the season. Ingram's elevation comes after cornerback Dane Jackson (concussion) and safety Taylor Rapp (neck) were ruled out against the Eagles on Friday. Buffalo plays Philadelphia at 4:25 p.m. ET at Lincoln Financial Field.  NOV 24 BILLS FRIDAY INJURY REPORT On Friday, the Buffalo Bills revealed their final injury report ahead of Sunday's huge game against the Philadelphia Eagles.  As has been the case all week, the Bills are dealing with a plethora of injuries in the secondary. Cornerback Dane Jackson (concussion) and safety Taylor Rapp (neck) have both been ruled out for Sunday's game, although corner Taron Johnson was a full participant on Friday for the first time this week. The full injury report is below. Bills injury report on Nov. 24. @BuffaloBillsPR - X NOV 22 BILLS WEDNESDAY INJURY REPORT The Buffalo Bills have revealed their Wednesday injury report ahead of Sunday's road meeting with the Philadelphia Eagles.  The Bills continue to deal with injuries in the secondary, as cornerbacks Dane Jackson and Taron Johnson (both concussions) and safety Taylor Rapp (neck) were all listed as DNP during Buffalo's Wednesday walk-through.  Here's the full injury report:  @BuffaloBillsPR - X NOV. 20 TAYLOR RAPP TESTS COME BACK NEGATIVE  Buffalo Bills fans can breathe a sigh of relief when it comes to Taylor Rapp's health.  NFL insider Ian Rapoport reported that Rapp's tests for a neck injury all came back negative. Rapp was taken off the field in an ambulance in the first half of the Bills' 32-6 win over the New York Jets on Sunday at Highmark Stadium.  He suffered a neck injury when he ducked his head down to make a tackle. After briefly standing up, Rapp went back down to the ground. Rapp was able to move his extremities and went to the locker room before being taken to the hospital.   No other updates have been given on Rapp at this time.  NOV 20 FIGHT! New video has emerged that shows some of what happened in the Bills vs. New York Jets brawl in the postgame tunnel after Sunday's NFL Week 11 32-6 win by Buffalo. And now we have a better idea of who started the foolishness. New York defensive end Micheal Clemons opted to start yapping at Buffalo left tackle Dion Dawkins after the two conflicted on the field ... Clemons choosing to continue the conflict. “I’m a humble guy,” Dawkins said. “I’m not a fan, man. I’m not a fan of the Jets. Like, very disrespectful players. It’s what it is.” NOV 19 BILLS INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills and New York Jets have revealed their inactives for Sunday's meeting with the New York Jets at Highmark Stadium.  Here's who's out for the Bills:  - Damar Hamlin - Poona Ford  - Alec Anderson - Germain Ifedi - A.J. Klien Here's who's out for the Jets:    NOV. 17 BILLS FRIDAY INJURY REPORT After only having two players limited in practice on Thursday, the Buffalo Bills had every player practiced in full capacity on Friday ahead of Sunday's meeting at home with the New York Jets. Defensive tackle Jordan Phillips (knee) and receiver Trent Sherfield (ankle) are the only players who enter Sunday with an injury designation, as they'll be questionable against New York. Cornerback Christian Benford and safety Micah Hyde, who were out in the Bills' 24-22 loss to the Denver Broncos on Monday Night Football, will play on Sunday. Here's the rest of the Bills' injury report from Friday.  Bills injury report. BuffaloBillsPr - X The Bills (5-5) host the Jets (4-5) on Sunday at 4:25 p.m. ET at Highmark Stadium. NOV. 17 BILLS-JETS SUPPOSED SHOWDOWN FIZZLES - Pre-Thanksgiving showdown. Josh Allen's Bills vs. Aaron Rodgers' Jets. AFC East on the line. Marquee game of CBS' late Sunday window at a time when the NFL starts separating its pretenders from the contenders ... At least, that's how we once envisioned Sunday's game at Highmark Stadium. But back then, who figured we'd go into this one with Rodgers in street clothes and Ken Dorsey unemployed? The 5-5 Bills still have a lot at stake against the 4-5 Jets, but it's more to stay in the playoff hunt while validating Sean McDermott's decision to fire his offensive coordinator in the wake of Monday night's debacle of a loss to the Broncos. Josh Allen leads the NFL in touchdown passes and is fourth in yards. Stefon Diggs leads the league in catches and is second in yards and touchdowns. The Bills average 370 yards and 26 points per game, both in the Top 8. None of that is surprising. But everything else about Sunday's supposed "showdown" will look unfamiliar as Rodgers lasted only four snaps and the Super Bowl-favorite Bills are merely hovering around .500. NOV 15 BILLS THURSDAY INJURY REPORT The Buffalo Bills are getting healthier at their most pivotal part of the season.  No player missed practice on Thursday for Buffalo ahead of Sunday's meeting with the New York Jets at home. Defensive tackle Jordan Phillips (knee) and receiver Trent Sherfield (ankle) were limited in practice on Thursday after not practicing on Wednesday.  Here is the Bills' full injury report.  Bills injury report @BuffaloBillsPR - X NOV 15 BILLS WEDNESDAY INJURY REPORT The Buffalo Bills revealed their injury estimation from Wednesday's walk-through ahead of Sunday's meeting at Highmark Stadium with the New York Jets.  The Bills listed two players as DNP, as receiver Trent Sherfield (ankle) and defensive tackle Jordan Phillips (knee) both would not have participated if Buffalo held a padded practice. Both players suffered their injuries in Monday's 24-22 loss at home to the Denver Broncos.  Here's the full injury report:  Bills injury report @BuffaloBillsPR - X NOV 11 BILLS WR SHERFIELD OUT Buffalo Bills receiver Trent Sherfield injured his ankle in the first half of Monday's game against the Denver Broncos at Highmark Stadium and has been ruled out for the remainder of the game.  Sherfield reportedly went into the locker room following a Buffalo kickoff in the first half, though it's unclear if he was injured on special teams. This season, Sherfield has just seven catches for 53 yards. He signed with the Bills as a free agent this past offseason.  The Bills trailed Denver 15-8 to begin the second half.  NOV 11 BILLS VS BRONCOS INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills have revealed their inactives list for Monday night's meeting with the Denver Broncos at Highmark Stadium.  Bills safety Damar Hamlin will be active for just his second game of the season.  Here's who's out for Buffalo:  - S Micah Hyde  - CB Christian Benford - LB Baylon Spector  - OL Germain Ifedi - OL Alec Anderson - DT Poona Ford Here's who's out for Denver: - S JL Skinner - TE Nate Adkins - LB Ben Niemann - LB Thomas Incoom - C Alex Forsyth - DT Keondre Coburn - DL Elijah Garcia NOV 9 BILLS REVEAL MNF UNIFORMS The Buffalo Bills will be under the bright lights of Monday Night Football looking a little blue. Well, actually, a lot blue. The Bills revealed their uniform combination for their game on Monday against the Denver Broncos. The Bills and Broncos are set to kick off at 8:15 p.m. on Monday inside Highmark Stadium. NOV 5 TERREL BERNARD RULED OUT  The Buffalo Bills announced that linebacker Terrel Bernard was evaluated for a head injury in the first half of Sunday's game against the Cincinnati Bengals at Paycor Stadium.  And prior to the third quarter, the Bills officially ruled Bernard out with a concussion.  It's unclear when exactly Bernard was injured, but he was reportedly helped off the field by trainers and had a towel over his head. He finishes Sunday's game against Cincinnati with four total tackles and one QB hit.  Headed into Week 9, Bernard has posted 46 total tackles, two sacks, three fumble recoveries, four passes defended and two interceptions.  NOV 4 JOSH NORMAN ELEVATED FROM PRACTICE SQUAD Ahead of the Buffalo Bills' Sunday Night Football matchup against the Cincinnati Bengals, they elevated veteran cornerback Josh Norman from the practice squad for the second straight week.  Buffalo signed Norman to the practice squad on Oct. 10. He played in his first game of the season on Oct. 26 in the Bills' 24-18 win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Norman played five snaps on special teams and had two tackles. Buffalo (5-3) faces the Bengals (4-3) at Paycor Stadium on Sunday at 8:15 p.m. ET. OCT 30 BILLS WORK OUT TIGHT END The Buffalo Bills have a hole in their tight end room with Dawson Knox out with a wrist injury that landed him on the IR.  With Knox out for for the foreseeable future, the worked out tight end Adam Shaheen on Monday, per reports from NFL Network's Tom Pelissero.  Shaheen was a second-round pick by the Chicago Bears in 2017, and spent the first three years of his career there. He also played for the Miami Dolphins in 2020-2021. He has 50 catches for 509 yards and seven touchdowns in his career.  The Bills visit the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday night. OCT 29 JETS, DOLPHINS JOIN BILLS IN WEEK 8 WINNER CIRCLE The Buffalo Bills were on the couch Sunday, recovering after their win Thursday against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. They got to watch the Miami Dolphins beat the New England Patriots and the New York Jets pull out an overtime victory against their cross-town rival New York Giants. The Bills remain in second place at 5-3, one game behind the 6-2 Dolphins and a 0.5 game ahead of the 4-3 Jets. The Patriots drop to 2-6 and remain last in the division. OCT 26 GABE DAVIS TD VS BUCS Buffalo Bills receiver Gabe Davis found himself wide open in the back of the end zone for a four-yard touchdown in the third quarter of Thursday night's meeting with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Highmark Stadium.  Davis' touchdown, which is his fifth score of the season, gave Buffalo a 24-10 lead. He had nine catches for 87 yards by the end of the third quarter.  Take a look at the touchdown:  OCT 26 BILLS VS BUCS INACTIVES The Buffalo Bills have revealed their inactives for Thursday night's game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Highmark Stadium.  Here's who out for the Bills: - S Damar Hamlin - CB Kaiir Elam - TE Quintin Morris - OL Germain Ifedi - OT Alec Anderson - LB Baylon Spector Here's who's out for the Bucs:  - OG Matt Feiler  - S Kaevon Merritweather - DL Patrick O'Connor - RB Sean Tucker - DL Vita Vea  - LB Markees Watts  - TE David Wells  OCT 26 KNOX TO IR The Bills might be ready to lean on rookie tight end Dalton Kincaid - starting right now.  Veteran starter Dawson Knox, who has been ruled out for Thursday night’s game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Highmark Stadium, will be placed on short-term IR, per NFL Network's Ian Rapoport. Knox's wrist injury will require surgery, is now likely to be moved onto Injured Reserve. That will mean a four-game absence for Knox ... and a step-up requirement elsewhere on the Josh Allen-led offense. OCT 25 BILLS DOWN TWO TIGHT ENDS The Buffalo Bills have ruled out tight ends Dawson Knox and Quintin Morris along with linebacker Baylon Spector for Thursday night’s meeting with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Highmark Stadium.  Knox will be out for the foreseeable future with a wrist injury that requires surgery. Morris, who was also out on Sunday, due to an ankle injury. Spector is dealing with a hamstring injury.  With Morris and Knox out, that leaves Dalton Kincaid as the only tight end left on the active roster. Rookie tight end Joel Wilson is on the practice squad, so one would expect him to be a candidate to be elevated to the active roster for Thursday.  The Bills (4-3) host the Buccaneers (3-3) at 8:15 p.m. ET on Thursday. OCT 23 WOUNDED BUCS? The Tampa Bay Buccaneers have a short week to prepare for the Buffalo Bills ahead of their Thursday Night Football matchup. ... and as of Monday, they've got issues. The Buccaneers did not have a full practice, but they "estimated'' that Baker Mayfield would have missed the session with a knee injury. Also listed as DNPs: Receiver Chris Godwin (neck), guard Matt Feiler (knee), defensive tackle Vita Vea (groin), and safety (Kaevon Merriweather). The Buccaneers are 3-3 and trying to stay in the NFC South playoff race after having lost 16-13 loss to the Atlanta Falcons last week. The Bills are 4-3 after being upset by the Patriots. Mayfield and Godwin IF Mayfield cannot go, Kyle Trask would be the likely starter at QB for the Bucs. OCT 20 BILLS MAKING MOVES The Buffalo Bills are making roster moves ahead of Sunday's meeting with the New England Patriots at Gillette Stadium.  The Bills announced Friday that they've signed running back Ty Johnson from the practice squad to the active roster and placed running back Damien Harris (neck) on IR. He's out for at least the next four games.  Johnson will now look to contribute to the offense as the third option in the backfield behind James Cook and Latavius Murray.  Johnson, a sixth-round pick by the Detroit Lions in 2019 out of Maryland, has posted 208 carries for 925 yards and four touchdowns along with 86 catches for 668 yards and three touchdowns in 62 career games.  OCT 19 INTERNATIONAL FLAGS You'll see some changes to some NFL helmets around the league for Weeks 7 and 8. Hundreds of players will add flag decals to their helmets representing the countries of their heritage. The league has announced more than 330 players have committed to participate, representing 72 nations, with Nigeria being the most-represented foreign country, with 80 players committing to wear the Nigerian flag. OCT 16 REX RYAN COACHING BRONCOS? Former Buffalo Bills coach Rex Ryan may find himself back in the NFL soon. According to ESPN's Pat McAfee, the Denver Broncos could be looking to change their defensive coordinator, and Ryan could be in the mix. Ryan coached the Buffalo Bills from 2015-16. He also has defensive coordinator experience with the Baltimore Ravens from 2005-08. OCT 15 DAMIEN HARRIS INJURED Buffalo Bills running back Damien Harris had to be stretched off the field and moved into an ambulance in the second quarter of Sunday night's game against the New York Giants at Highmark Stadium.  "Harris (neck) is out for the game. He has movement in his arms and legs," the Bills tweeted. "Harris is being taken to hospital for further testing." Harris took a hard hit late in the second quarter after converting a 3rd and 1 with the Bills trailing 6-0. He laid on the field for a while until being moved onto the stretcher.  Harris signed a one-year deal with the Bills this offseason after spending the first four years of his career with the New England Patriots. This season, he's posted 22 carries for 93 yards and one touchdown along with two catches for 16 yards.  OCT. 14 BUFFALO BILLS MAKE ROSTER MOVES AHEAD OF SUNDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL The Buffalo Bills have made two roster moves ahead of their primetime showdown with the New York Giants at Highmark Stadium. Buffalo activated linebacker Baylon Spector from the Injured Reserve and they elevated cornerback Ja'Marcus Ingram from the practice squad. Spector began the season on the IR with a hamstring injury, while Ingram was also called up from the practice squad for Buffalo in Week 5. With injuries to Tre'Davious White and Matt Milano potentially out for the season and Dane Jackson ruled out for Sunday, Spector and Ingram will provide much-needed depth.  Buffalo hosts the Giants on Sunday at 8:20 p.m. ET at Highmark Stadium.  OCT. 13 BILLS QUARTERBACK-RECEIVER ON SAME PAGE - Whether an angry response to a playoff loss, a brief minicamp boycott or slamming a tablet during last weekend's loss in London, it's clear by now that Bills' receiver Stefon Diggs is an emotional player. Quarterback Josh Allen, however, made it a point this week to put to bed any perceived "differences" between the two. In Allen's words, the characterizations are "nonsense." With a couple days to cool down and turn his attention to Sunday night's home game against the Giants, Diggs thanked Allen for his support. “I’m thankful to have a quarterback who has my back," Diggs said. "For other people, it’s hard for me to put it in words how much time and effort goes into football and how serious it is out there. When things aren’t going right and you put a lot on yourself and you want more for yourself, you want more for your team.” OCT 7 GOODELL HINTS AT NEW INTERNATIONAL SITES AFTER BILLS-JAGUARS As the Buffalo Bills prepare to do international battle with the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday in London (9:30 a.m. ET, NFL Network), NFL commissioner Roger Goodell is already looking ahead to the 2024 slate abroad. On Saturday, Goodell mentioned that representatives from prospective hosts will be on hand to take in both the Bills-Jaguars tilt, as well as the Baltimore Ravens' British showdown with the Tennessee Titans next week. "We actually have three or four markets that are here this weekend and next weekend that are interested in hosting a game," Goodell said in a report from the Associated Press. As for where those reps are coming from, the AP report says that Brazil's Rio De Janeiro and Sao Paulo are under consideration, as is Madrid in Spain. Buffalo's AFC East rival Miami has both Brazil and Spain listed as its "international home market," sharing the latter with the Chicago Bears. The Bills, of course, will face the Dolphins twice next season while they'll also face an undetermined NFC North opponent on the road. OCT. 6 BILLS, JAGS FIRST AFC WINNING TEAMS TO PLAY IN LONDON - The last time the Bills traveled across the pond, they lost to the Jaguars in London in 2015 to continue what was a long playoff drought. But come Sunday morning at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, they'll be one of the NFL's premier brands taking part in history. There has never been a London game between two teams that went on to make the playoffs. Barring unforeseen injuries, the Bills are on track to make the postseason for the fifth consecutive season and their opponent - the Jaguars - are coming off a playoff season. "It's a very real chance of that happening," said Cameron Hogwood, a London-based NFL reporter for Sky Sports. "It is another really nice storyline just to kind of put it in the history books. It does feel like a huge deal that Josh Allen and the Bills are coming over, because we're talking about legitimate contenders." Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, a $1 billion facility that opened in 2019 with a capacity nearing 63,000, was a model used to build the new Bills Stadium that will open in time for the 2026 NFL season. OCT. 1 TRE'DAVIOUS WHITE OUT FOR YEAR - Buffalo Bills cornerback Tre'Davious White is out for the season with a torn Achilles, coach Sean McDermott confirmed on Monday. White went down in the third quarter of Sunday's 48-20 win over the Miami Dolphins at Highmark Stadium. He had to be carted off after showing tons of emotion, which was the early sign that the injury was likely serious.  In four games this season, White posted 12 total tackles, two passes defended and one interception.  OCT. 1 BILLS VS DOLPHINS INACTIVES - The Buffalo Bills and Miami Dolphins have both revealed their inactives for Sunday's meeting at Highmark Stadium. Bills safety Damar Hamlin is active and now set to make his season debut. Here's who's out for the Bills: - S Jordan Poyer  - CB Kaiir Elam - OG Germain Ifedi - OT Alec Anderson  - DT Poona Ford Here's who's out for the Dolphins:  - QB Skylar Thompson  - LB Jaelan Phillips  - S DeShon Elliott - CB Eli Apple - OL Connor Williams - TE Tyler Croft SEPT 29 POYER OUT VS PHINS Buffalo Bills coach Sean McDermott said Friday that veteran safety Jordan Poyer will not play in Sunday's home game against the Miami Dolphins due to a knee injury. Poyer was did not practice on Wednesday or Thursday.  Per Bills insider Chris Brown, everyone else on the injury report is expected to play. This includes safety Micah Hyde, defensive end Leonard Floyd, cornerback Taron Johnson, offensive lineman Ryan Bates and defensive back Siran Neal.  SEPT 27 BILLS WEDNESDAY REPORT The Buffalo Bills have revealed their Wednesday injury report ahead of Sunday's contest with the Miami Dolphins at Highmark Stadium.  Here's who sat out of Wednesday's practice:  The Thursday and Friday injury report will be telling for the status of each player. The Bills have been relatively healthy to start the season, so it's possible most of these guys could log a full practice before Sunday.  SEPT 21 CHRISTIAN KIRKSEY RETIRES, BILLS SIGN LINEBACKER TO PRACTICE SQUAD Buffalo Bills linebacker Christian Kirksey told the team that he plans to retire according to NFL insider Mike Garafolo.  Kirksey had been on Buffalo's practice squad after he was cut by the Houston Texans during the preseason. The former linebacker finished his career with 778 tackles, 16.5 sacks and seven interceptions.  Garafolo also reported that Buffalo plans to sign A.J. Klen to the practice squad after Kirksey's retirement. Klein was on the Bills during the preseason before being cut. SEPT 16 TAKEO SPIKES LEGEND OF GAME FOR WEEK 2 The Buffalo Bills revealed that former All-Pro linebacker Takeo Spikes will be the Bills Legend of the Game for Sunday's home opener agaisnt the Las Vegas Raiders. "I remember the first day that I walked into the Bills' stadium for the season opener, and that was a magical day for me that I will never forget," Spikes said, per the team website. "What other better way to start than to come home and get the first win at home." Spikes, who spent 15 years in the NFL, saw some of the best seasons of his career happen with the Bills. In 2004 with Buffalo, he was named an All-Pro and a Pro Bowler after finishing the season with five interceptions, four forced fumbles and two pick-sixes. Spikes made the Pro Bowl in two of his four seasons in Buffalo. SEPT 11 DRAFTKINGS 9/11 Monday marks the 22-year anniversary of the tragic terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. While it's an important day of remembrance for all Americans, it will always hit a bit harder for New Yorkers.  But instead of honoring the lives lost, popular sports betting company DraftKings used the anniversary as a way to make money by creating an insensitive "Never Forget" parlay that includes the New York Mets, New York Yankees and New York Jets. All three teams play on Monday night.  The Jets will be hosting the Buffalo Bills at MetLife Stadium in game that will bring tons of excitement due to the matchup, but also moments of emotion due to the anniversary and the fact that it's two New York teams playing each other on the anniversary of the attack. DraftKings eventually took down the promotion for the parlay and released an apology.  “We sincerely apologize for the featured parlay that was shared briefly in commemoration of 9/11. We respect the significance of this day for our country and especially for the families of those who were directly affected," DraftKings said. SEPT 10 AFC EAST GOES 1-1 ON SUNDAY The Buffalo Bills and New York Jets' Monday Night Football affair will be a fight for a tie in first place along with the Miami Dolphins after their 36-34 win against the Los Angeles Chargers. Dolphins receiver Tyreek Hill caught 11 passes for 215 yards and a pair of touchdowns in the win. Meanwhile, the New England Patriots weren't as lucky in their 25-20 loss to the defending NFC champion Philadelphia Eagles. Mac Jones completed 35 of his 54 passes for 316 yards, three touchdowns and an interception. The Bills and Jets kickoff Monday night at 8:15 on ESPN. SEPT 9 MICAH HYDE ACTIVE VS. JETS Buffalo Bills safety Micah Hyde was the only player listed on the team's injury report ahead of Monday's opener against the New York Jets. But despite the back injury he was dealing with during the week that kept him limited on Thursday, Hyde was once again listed as a full participant on Saturday, as he's now set to be full go against the Jets.  The Bills are looking quite healthy headed into Monday's opener, as they'll look to pull off the road win over Aaron Rodgers and company.   SEPT 8 BILLS REVEAL FRIDAY INJURY REPORT The Buffalo Bills have been preparing for life without star pass rusher Von Miller headed into Week 1 against the New York Jets, but the rest of the active roster looks to be in healthy shape for Monday's season opener at MetLife Stadium.  The Bills revealed their Friday injury report, which only had safety Micah Hyde listed. After being limited on Thursday with a back injury, Hyde was a full participant for Friday's walk-through. Had Buffalo held a padded practice, this means the Bills estimate that Hyde would've suited up in full capacity.  The Bills and Jets kickoff from MetLife on Monday at 8:15 p.m. ET.  AUG 30 BILLS ROOKIES FIND NEW HOME Two of the Buffalo Bills' 2023 seventh-round draft picks landed with a new team on Wednesday via the waiver wire, as rookie cornerback Alex Austin and rookie offensive lineman Nick Broeker were both claimed by the Houston Texans. Broeker was the No. 230th overall pick by the Bills in April out of Ole Miss. Austin came shortly after with the No. 252nd overall selection out of Oregon State.  With rookie receiver Justin Shorter headed to short-term IR, the Bills will only have three of their 2023 draft picks on the active roster to begin the season.  Additionally, Bills safety and former Kansas City Chief, Zayne Anderson, was claimed by the Green Bay Packers. Bills offensive tackle David Quessenberry was released by Buffalo on Tuesday, but is now signing with the Minnesota Vikings.  AUG 23 TUA CHUBBY? The competition in the AFC East - with the pack chasing the Buffalo Bills - figures to be fierce, and Tua Tagovailoa is right in the middle of it. But there is also a battle going on between ESPN analyst Ryan Clark and Tua after the media guy's recent criticism of the Miami quarterback's work ethic and offseason habits. Clark's take on Tagovailoa? He "might have spent a lot of time in the tattoo parlor" this offseason but was "not at the dinner table eating with a nutritionist. ... He looks heavy," Clark said. Tagovailoa's response? "It's a little weird when other people are talking about other people when they're not that person. ... I come from a Samoan family. Respect is everything, but it does get to a point where...little easy on that buddy. We're a pretty tough-minded people. If we need to get scrappy, we can get scrappy too." Tua then added that he'd "appreciate it" if Clark could "keep my name out (of his) mouth." AUG 19 PATS PRAYERS Following an abrupt and unexpected end to their preseason matchup on Saturday night at Lambeau Field, the the New England Patriots and Green Bay Packers were provided an arresting reminder that some things are bigger than the game of football - in a way reminiscent of the Damar Hamlin incident that the Bills remember all too well. New England rookie cornerback Isaiah Bolden went down in a Saturday night preseason game at Green Bay after he collided violently with teammate Calvin Munson while attempting to cover Green Bay pass-catcher Malik Heath. He immediately fell to the ground after sustaining a hit to the head from Munson’s elbow. As members of both teams formed a prayer-like circle surrounding him, Bolden received medical attention. He was ultimately immobilized, placed on a stretcher and removed from the field on a cart. “We’re all saying a prayer for Isaiah,” New England coach Bill Belichick said. “I appreciated the way the league handled it. I think that was the right thing to do.” What the league did - maybe learning a lesson from Hamlin's life-and-death situation late last season in Cincinnati - is to cancel the game. AUG 19 TWO BILLS OUT FOR PRESEASON VS. STEELERS The Buffalo Bills have ruled out tight end Dawson Knox and linebacker Tyler Matakevich for Saturday's preseason game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, per multiple reports.  Knox has a finger injury, which could open the door for first-round rookie tight end Dalton Kincaid to get some valuable preseason reps. Matakevich (calf) was just taken off the PUP list this week, but doesn't seem ready for a return to the field just yet. AUG 10 O.J. ON RUGGS Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Henry Ruggs learned of his prison sentence on Wednesday. ... and O.J. Simpson isn't happen about it. A judge sentenced Ruggs to three-to-10 years in prison after he pleaded guilty to driving 156 mph while under the influence on November. 2, 2021 in a crash that killed 23-year-old Tina Tintor and her dog. "You're driving a car roughly 160 MPH on a public street and you kill a girl and her dog and you get three-to-10 years. (Meanwhile) you go to a hotel room where you're invited to retrieve your own personal stolen property and you get nine-to-33 years," Simpson said in another of his many awkward media video posts. Simpson, the former Buffalo Bills great and Pro Football Hall of Famer, served nine years in prison on various charges after he was convicted in 2008 after an associate claimed that Simpson broke into his hotel room and stole sports memorabilia. In 1997, a civil jury found Simpson liable for wrongful death in the double murder of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and Ronald Goldman, and was ordered to pay $33.5 million in damages to the Brown and Goldman families. Simpson has maintained his innocence in the infamous 1994 tragedy.