NAVARRE – Tractor Supply Co.'s new multimillion dollar facility officially opened its doors Wednesday morning, introducing a new hub to facilitate local, state and national commerce. Officials hosted a grand opening event to celebrate the company's new distribution center at 3001 Sterilite St. SE. Overall, the facility employs approximately 350 full-time workers. Business boost:New Tractor Supply center in Navarre equates to hundreds of jobs in 2022 Job growth:900,000 square foot Tractor Supply Co. warehouse coming to Navarre "This warehouse will help us provide faster and more efficient distribution of all our products," said Mickey Heckman, general manager of the Navarre center. "We look forward to being a good neighbor and contribute to the local economy." Hundreds of employees and visitors filled part of the 900,000 square-foot center during Wednesday's event. Attendees were welcomed by a contingent of local military veterans who raised the U.S. flag, as well as live music performed by the Fairless High School band. Navarre Mayor Bob Benson kicked off the remarks, welcoming Tractor Supply to the village. "This is our future. We're grateful and blessed to have this facility come to town," Benson said. Work on the warehouse at the former Stark County Farm started in June 2021. It's a full-service distribution center, shipping Tractor Supply products to retail stores in multiple eastern U.S. states, as well as fulfilling online orders. Although the facility's grand opening was Wednesday, operations began on site Dec. 6. The more than $70 million center aims to service more than 250 stores across Ohio, as well as sectors of West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Indiana and Michigan. It's the company's ninth distribution center and is the largest in Tractor Supply's network with a workforce comparable to other warehouses, Heckman said. Tractor Supply Chief Executive Officer Hal Lawton said the Navarre facility has 40 shipping docks and 49 receiving docks. It can also house up to 50,000 pallets of inventory. Tractor Supply is planning to add employees in an attempt to bring its total workforce up to 600 to 700, according to Stefan Marks, a company human resources partner. Most jobs available at the warehouse include shipping, stacking and receiving positions. Altogether, Tractor Supply has 2,100 stores nationwide and employs approximately 50,000 people, Lawton said. Reach Steven at steven.grazier@indeonline.com. On Twitter: @sgrazierINDE This article originally appeared on The Independent: Tractor Supply Co. new warehouse Navarre grand opening ceremony New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.