The Tractor Supply retail chain is temporarily halting sales of trailers at 23 New Mexico locations as well as other items requiring titles from the state Motor Vehicle Division, such as all-terrain vehicles. The chain’s license with the MVD expired at the end of February, but sales appeared to continue three weeks into March until the company was made aware of the lapse, which means customers will not be able to register the vehicles. “We cannot under law title and register a vehicle or trailer sold by a dealer whose license isn’t current,” MVD spokesperson Charlie Moore said. “We, of course, are happy to work with dealers to help them stay in compliance.” Audra Kennis and her husband purchased a trailer from Tractor Supply’s Deming store on March 3 and waited until the 21st to get in line at the Deming MVD office to pay the taxes and get the title and registration plate. There, she was informed the dealer’s license, and therefore her purchase, were invalid. When Kennis called the Deming store, the news appeared to take them by surprise. After contacting the MVD and faxing over her purchase agreement and a copy of the title, the agency contacted her within the hour. “They informed me that I would have to return the product,” Kennis recalled, “because Tractor Supply sold it illegally without having an active dealer license.” On March 22, Kennis said she spoke with a district manager with Tractor Supply who said he had just been informed of the issue — at which point the dealer license had been expired for three weeks. “My husband, he needs the trailer,” Kennis said, “and now we’re being forced to return something we don’t want to return. … There’s nothing we can do with it.” When she returned the trailer to the store on March 23, she said a store manager told her it had stopped selling trailers on the 22nd. It isn’t clear whether customers have been proactively notified of the issue, which will prevent legal operation of trailers, quads, four-wheelers, or any vehicle requiring title sold at Tractor Supply. All of the retailer’s New Mexico locations shared the same dealer license number, meaning sales after Feb. 28 at any of the locations will not have a valid purchase date. “People should be aware,” Kennis said. “What are they going to do? They did not notify the stores until the 22nd to stop selling those products. How many of those went out the door?” The company stated on Tuesday that sales were halted until the company renewed its license. “We were recently made aware of an administrative issue with the processing of our New Mexico MVD license renewal,” the company said in a written statement. “We are working closely with the state to resolve this as soon as possible, and are currently waiting for our renewal to be processed. Until then, we have paused all trailer sales in our New Mexico stores. “Customers who purchased a trailer after February 28 can return it to the store for a full refund. For customers who prefer to register their trailers after state records are updated, please contact us at 877-718-6750 or email us at customersolutions@tractorsupply.com. We will inform these customers when the issue is resolved. We sincerely apologize to our customers who have been impacted by this situation, and thank them for their patience.” Kennis said she received a refund and had not decided whether to wait for Tractor Supply’s license renewal or to buy a trailer elsewhere. Algernon D’Ammassa can be reached at algernon@demingheadlight.com.