
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/10/16/most-of-retail-shrink-may-occur-in-the-supply-chain/   
CRE Tech Center
 Large retailers don't check trucks before they're unloaded, expert says. Someone who has spent the past 30 years specializing in retail asset  protection, including 23 years at Walmart's HQ in Bentonville, AR, says that people are conflating the burgeoning growth of retail shrink with the in-store shoplifting epidemic dominating the headlines. In-store theft, as well as organized retail crime, no doubt is a major factor expanding the huge tallies of shrink being reported by some of the largest retailers, including Target. But huge opportunities for shrink also occur in the supply chain and from accounting errors. According to Brand Elverston, now an industry consultant, retail shrink totals are based on an annual reconciliation of what a retailer's financial ledgers say matched against the physical count: the gap is shrink. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Jennifer Giuliano |  July 12, 2024 Due diligence practices are adjusting rapidly as investors examine their target acquisition through modern lenses that affect the way asset information is collected and used, as well as new key KPIs related to long-term asset performance. By Natalie Dolce |  April 23, 2024 Distress opportunities in the market have not materialized as anticipated, says one source. By Erik Sherman |  April 22, 2024 You need to look for certain information and ask questions to clarify how the technology really works. 
Trend Report
 
Sponsored by Placer.ai
 Emerging Trends for CRE in 2024 This snapshot examines the evolution of key industries and sectors impacting CRE across the United States in 2024. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
