


Publisher - India Education news, Education in India, Global Education, Universities news, Colleges, Career Options, admission, jobs, examinations, Exam results, University News, Education News

     Mumbai : Upstox, one of the leading digital investment platforms in India, has partnered with ‘TradingView’, a global charting platform used by over 30 million traders and investors. This partnership will help Upstox users track, analyse and execute their trades on NSE, BSE and MCX instantly in a seamless manner. The TradingView features can be accessed on a new web platform hosted using www.tv.upstox.com. On Upstox, the integration is built on top of the TradingView library which renders a similar user experience to that on the TradingView portal, empowering users to trade and manage the order and positions directly on the chart. Furthermore, Upstox users can leverage this facility to create their own list of stocks, view charts and run technical analysis- all at the same time. The TradingView facility is available for all users on desktop at zero cost. It includes all charting tools, indicators, multi chart view and several other features. The platform also has a dashboard which covers the order, position and holdings of the user, making it easier for them to track and act separately. “The partnership with TradingView brings us a step closer to our vision of constantly innovating and enhancing our users’ trading journey. We want to render the best charting experience to our customers using a robust tech-led approach. With this integration, traders on the Upstox platform have access to several charting tools. They will enjoy a powerful stock analysis with 104 indicators and over 80 drawing tools. Further, they can also trade directly from charts and set up to 8 charts simultaneously. We are delighted to start this journey with TradingView and provide our users with a class-apart experience.” said Shrini Viswanath, Co-founder, Upstox. Additionally, there is an Options Chain tool that enables customers to choose up to 30 strike prices above and below the LTP of the underlying symbol. It enables access to faster and more accurate charts, seamless order execution, and an option to convert to dark themes. To add to the momentum of innovations, Upstox’s Margin Trading Facility (MTF) universe has also expanded; increasing the applicable stocks under MTF from 194 to 377. Further, the applicable amount you can get via MTF has been increased from ₹12.5 Lakhs to ₹25 Lakhs. With newer discovery tools, users can spot new trading opportunities- Smartlists will help them discover active contracts, open interest and implied volatility gainers. In the last few years, TradingView has evolved as a popular trading library among the traders community to run technical analysis to discover new opportunities. Synergising with this aim of enhancing trading for users, Upstox has introduced this facility on their platform to augment their journey and provide them with the right tools that will guide them along the way.    Prev Post				 University Of Nottingham researcher receives 2023 Manfred Lautenschlaeger Award Next Post  University of Nottingham renews ESCoE’s research programme  

				Ministry of Textiles implementing National Handloom Development Programme and Raw…			

  

				2-Day National Hindi Seminar Inaugurated at RINL			

  

				Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Dinesh Kumar Tripathi called on Union Minister Dr.…			

  

				Orientation programme held for freshers			

 Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you.