"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." And just like that, it’s already the end of the summer. If you, too, are in disbelief that pumpkin spice season is already here, fear not. To ring in the fall season, our editors did a deep dive on Amazon and narrowed down a list of the best finds under $30 for September 2023. In addition to deals on cozy fall fashion, we unearthed sales and already-low prices on moisturizing skincare products, fitness accessories, and more products that will help you transition into cooler temps and new routines. And because Amazon isn’t called the everything store for nothing, there’s (of course) more. We also uncovered deals on top-rated headphones. We even discovered what just might become your new favorite travel bag that can double as a day-to-day gym bag. And if you’re looking for more workout essentials, you won’t want to miss out on this best-selling sports bra. Check out these September finds, and much more, as we head into fall. Whether you’re afraid of dropping and losing a wireless earbud, or just prefer the corded style, the Apple EarPods will become your go-to headphone. Just plug them into any device with a lightning connector and you’re ready to go. Listen to music, enjoy your favorite audiobook or talk on the phone with the built-in mic that doubles as a remote for controlling your music and volume. Shop Now EarPods amazon.com $16.99 Meet your new favorite fall hoodie. This oversized, fleece-lined pick is perfectly cozy and warm for cooler weather (but still lightweight and breathable!). Plus, it looks great with anything in your fall wardrobe. Shop Now Fleece Oversized Hoodie amazon.com $29.99 This top-rated high-impact sports bra from Champion features molded cups that work to flatter your natural shape. Available in sizes 34C - 42DDD, this supportive bra hooks in the back like a standard bra and comes at a lower price tag than many other sports bras. Shop Now Comfort Full Support Sports Bra amazon.com 28.00 These cult-loved high-waisted leggings from Ewedoos come in sizes small through 3X and we especially love them for not being see-through. We’re talking actually not see-through, not just opaque until you bend over. And did we mention they have pockets? Big enough to hold a cell phone, these pockets make these a great legging for running errands (or do anything really since we practically live in leggings). Shop Now Leggings with Pockets amazon.com $23.99 From deep stretching to strength training, resistance bands are a practical (and efficient) purchase. Just about as portable as workout gear can be, these can be used at home, in the park, and in hotel rooms when traveling. This best-selling set is specifically designed for glutes, waist, hip and butt sculpting. Shop Now Resistance Band amazon.com $15.90 A cost-friendly dupe to other cat eye sunglasses, these stylish shades not just for looks—they also have UV400 protection lens that block 100 percent of of UVA and UVB rays. With five colors to choose from, you can even get a pair to accessorize every outfit and still spend less than a pair of designer sunglasses would cost you. Shop Now Cat Eye Sunglasses amazon.com $14.99 Give your face a daily dose of moisture with this hyaluronic acid gel. Famously loved by Jennifer Garner, Neutrogena Hydroboost is designed to lock in moisture, leaving skin soft and supple. The actress has even jokingly called this best-selling moisturizer her “baby” in the past. As Garner put it to InStyle earlier this year:“It’s just so satisfying, you instantly see the difference.” Shop Now Hydro Boost Hyaluronic Acid Gel amazon.com $15.19 Tired of lugging your Stanley around (or worse, leaving it at home because you don't want to carry it)? Stay hydrated on-the-go with this insulated sleeve that has an attachable strap for hands-free carrying. The built-in two zipper pouch can hold your keys, cash, credit cards and even a small phone meaning you can even leave your purse at home too. Shop Now Stanley Water Bottle Holder amazon.com $19.99 Tailgate season is upon us and this foldable table is great for enjoying food and drinks before a football game. Set it up next to the BBQ or take it to your child’s sports practice to display snacks for the players. Also great for camping, the sturdy aluminum seats up to four people for a sit-down dinner. Take it on the go or easily store it away in its convenient travel case. Shop Now Outdoor Compact Folding Table amazon.com $26.97 Unlike disposable foam earplugs that need to be squished into your ear, these earplugs rest securely without needing to be deeply inserted. Just put them in like you would a pair of headphones and you’ll be ready to block out loud noises like concerts, sporting events, dental work, construction, motorcycles and more. These Hi-Fidelity earplugs are great for anyone with sound sensitivities and come with a carrying case and different size tips for a snug fit. Shop Now Hi-Fiedelity Ear Plugs amazon.com $23.16 Boasting over 8k reviews and counting, this lightweight mockneck find will come in clutch once sweater weather kicks in. Here, an easy-to-layer find that also looks simple and stylish on its own. Shop Now Lightweight Mockneck Sweater amazon.com $23.70 Avoid dry feet as the seasons change with these fuzzy heel protectors. Moisturize dry, cracked heels with the help of the interior gel liner infused with jojoba seed oil, olive oil, and vitamin E to add an extra layer of moisture. The gel lining also acts as a barrier so you can apply your favorite lotions or oils and have them actually stay on your skin instead of absorbing into the material like they do in a pair of regular socks. Shop Now Moisturizing Heel Socks amazon.com $14.99 An eco-friendly alternative to plastic detergent jugs and tubs of pods. These laundry sheets come in a recyclable paper box so there's no waste. Just throw a fresh scent sheet into your washing machine and it will dissolve into the load of laundry, leaving it fresh and clean. Thanks to Spot’s liquid-free design, there’s no fear of spills or that gunky build-up that forms in the detergent reservoir of your machine. Great for taking on the go when you need to do laundry while traveling or to send a hint to your college kiddo that they don't need to bring the laundry back home. Shop Now Laundry Detergent Sheets amazon.com $8.99 Don’t let the low price of this travel bag deter you, it’s incredibly durable. But don’t take our word for it, this bag has 4.7 stars on Amazon with over 29,000 reviews. Users love it taking to the gym. Inside you’ll find a pocket made of high-density, water-resistant material you can keep sweat-soaked clothing or a wet bathing suit separate from dry clothes. Carry it by the handles, wear it as a crossbody or use the outside sleeve to slide it on the handles of your rolling suitcase.  Shop Now Travel Duffel Bag amazon.com $21.49 Soup season is upon us. Keep your hands protected while you enjoy a hot bowl of chili. Set your bowl into a hugger before placing in the microwave so you can pull leftovers out without fear of burning yourself. We also love them for ice cream bowls to avoid frozen hands and melting. Shop Now Microwave Bowl Cozy Huggers amazon.com $16.99 Illuminate any room with this adjustable standing lamp. With three color temperature settings, you can set a room’s mood to how you’re feeling at any of time of day with either warm white, natural white, or daylight white. The linen shade will allow you to light the room without making it glaringly bright and can be angled in any direction, making it great for offices, living rooms, and reading nooks. Shop Now Floor Lamp amazon.com $39.99 As cooler weather sets in it’s time to trade your summer dresses for fall styles. This knee-length, long sleeve dress provides more coverage while showing off your figure with its cinched waist and V neckline. Shop Now Fall Dress with Pockets amazon.com $19.99 You Might Also Like Can Apple Cider Vinegar Lead to Weight Loss? Bobbi Brown Shares Her Top Face-Transforming Makeup Tips for Women Over 50 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.