Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. Amazon, People / Reese Herrington  Was getting your home organized among your new year's resolutions? While we might not be able to summon The Home Edit to design over our pantries or rework our garage storage, making small steps to declutter and streamline can make a huge difference. And the entryway is the perfect place to start since it makes heading out and returning home a better experience when your space is functional and appealing. One easy way to corral clutter is to eliminate the pool of footwear that tends to collect by the door. A tiered shoe rack is an inexpensive way to store a collection of the shoes you reach for the most. Amazon shoppers love this under-$30 three-tier option, which has earned a perfect rating from more than 11,000 customers. It comes in multiple colors (some of which are on sale) including white and silver, but we're partial to the pretty gold hue, which elevates the shoe rack from a lowly storage accessory to something that coordinates nicely with modern decor. Amazon  Buy It! Simple Trending 3-Tier Stackable Shoe Rack in Gold, $25.47; amazon.com RELATED: Calling all shoppers! Sign up to get hand-picked deals, celebrity fashion inspo, and more delivered by text message. Many reviewers note that the rack is easy to assemble and feels sturdy. "I also appreciate that there is some customization available if desired. The instructions show you a number of configurations including some suggested setups if you buy multiple racks," one shopper wrote. Amazon  Buy It! Simple Trending 3-Tier Stackable Shoe Rack in Bronze, $24.97; amazon.com Another customer vetted the capacity for larger shoe sizes. "I wear a men's size 13 so I have trouble finding shoe racks. This one was great," they wrote. "I'm actually purchasing a third rack." A third reviewer praised the high quality shelving. "These are light but sturdy metal shelves, very easy to assemble, attractive, and hold a surprising number of shoes and boots," they said. Amazon  Buy It! Simple Trending 3-Tier Stackable Shoe Rack in Silver, $23.97 (orig. $30.99); amazon.com In addition to the three-shelf model, this shoe rack also comes in two and five-tier styles, with the largest option costing just $35. It's a small price to pay for the peace of mind that getting organized can bring. Head to Amazon to add the customer-loved shoe rack to your entryway. Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.