 The City of Montreal is redesigning 13 of its downtown streets to make the area safer for pedestrians and cyclists.  From street closures to reorienting traffic, the Ville-Marie makeover's main goal is to reduce the number of cars on the road.  "Unfortunately, we're seeing in the past months, in the past year, a lot of collisions in our neighbourhood," said Sophie Mauzerolle, city councillor for the Saint-Marie district.  The plan comes four months after a seven-year-old Ukrainian refugee was killed in a hit-and-run at the Parthenais and Rouen Street intersection.  The tragedy prompted locals to demand change, and the city says it's coming.  "There's a lot of pressure because we have the impact of the [Jacques Cartier bridge], we have a lot of infrastructures that are important for transit. But we really want to reduce the transit in the neighbourhood," said Mauzerolle.  The project prioritizes areas with a heavy presence of children, seniors and community groups.  One way it plans to make things safer is by adding 110 speedbumps across the borough's three districts.  "There's an increase of cars in the metropolis; cars are bigger. That's why we're trying to offer more options as possible," said Mauzerolle.  The city voted to close part of Lariviere Street this summer, between De Lorimier and Parthenais. The plan also hopes to make the area more appealing to pedestrians by adding benches and plant life.  A part Lariviere Street, between De Lorimier and Parthenais, will close to vehicles this summer as part of Montreal's plan to improve pedestrian safety downtown.  (City of Montreal)  Sections of Ottawa, Larivière, and Sussex Streets will also be closed.  Fullum, Parthenais, De Rouen, Peel, Hope and Sussex Streets will either change directors or be made one-way.  Saint-Christophe, Berthier, Saint-Rose, Du Square-Amherst Streets and Clark Street near the Maisonneuve Boulevard intersection will be redesigned. The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  Families can expect the next Canada Child Benefit payment to land in their bank accounts this week, according to the Canada Revenue Agency.  Labour Minister Steven Mackinnon is calling upon CN Rail, the Canadian Pacific Kansas City (CPKC) and the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference to 'do the hard work necessary' to prevent a potential railway stoppage.  Phil Donahue, who changed the face of U.S. daytime television with a long-running syndicated talk show that highlighted topical and often provocative social and political issues, has died at age 88, NBC's 'Today' show reported on Monday, citing a statement from his family.  The Philippines and China accused each other on Monday of ramming vessels and performing dangerous maneuvers in the South China Sea, the latest flare-up after the two nations agreed last month to try to manage disagreements at sea.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says it found a number of safety deficiencies in its investigation into a Toronto ferry crash that injured 12 people two years ago.  A busy intersection in downtown Toronto will be closed for one week starting Monday as the city starts the 'complete reconstruction' of the crossing.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  Sanctions are being recommended for a councillor of an eastern Ontario township after he allegedly gave a speech at a community event while allegedly intoxicated and engaged in two separate physical fights with residents on the same day last year.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Thousands of people made their way to Nova Scotia’s Eastern Shore this past weekend to get a first-hand view of the 44th annual Clam Harbour Beach Sandcastle Competition.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday.  A 45-year-old man was killed Friday night when the pickup truck he was driving on Skead Road hit the guardrails and plummeted down the embankment.  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  Ontario Provincial Police say a 20-year-old from Sudbury has been charged with careless driving causing death and stunt driving after a person in a wheelchair was killed late last month.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  The weather is believed to have played a factor in a crash involving a London Transit but on the weekend. According to London police, the investigation remains ongoing as to whether or not any other factors may have played a part in the crash.  A fire in east London is being investigated as suspicious after crews responded around 6:30 a.m. A camper trailer and a boat were engulfed when crews arrived at 531 First St. and was quickly extinguished.  An investigation from Western University’s Northern Tornadoes Project has classified Saturday’s tornado in Ayr, Ont., as an EF1.  Residents in Waterloo Region are being asked to conserve water for approximately one week, starting Monday while an important water pipe is repaired.  Waterloo Regional Police are investigating after a man was hurt in a Cambridge shooting.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie.  Two men were injured in an incident that occurred at a Barrie plaza around Cundles Road East and Sperling Drive early Monday morning.  Caledon Fire and Emergency Services are reporting an active fire at a residence in the area of Mayfield Road.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  Officials at Metro Vancouver are working to secure more sodium hypochlorite (chlorine), as a potential rail strike could stall delivery of the chemical agent used to clean the area’s drinking water.  A driver who crashed through the fence of a West Shore home over the weekend failed a breathalyzer test at the scene, according to the RCMP.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 29-year-old man is in police custody following an alleged assault on a bus driver near Victoria.  British Columbia's provincial health officer is reminding parents and guardians to ensure their children are up to date on all their vaccines before heading back to school next month.  On August 18, 1964, 60 years and one day ago, the Fab Four made an unscheduled stop in Winnipeg, drawing more than 1,000 fans to the airport.  Postal workers staged an information picket on Monday morning in Winnipeg as they called for better and safer working conditions.  For a quarter of a century, Jeff Bettle has owned and operated a potter’s paradise tucked away off Provincial Highway 10.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Daytime highs are expected to exceed normal thresholds for most of Alberta on Monday as the tail end of a ridge of high pressure acts as the main weather maker early in the day.  ASIRT will be investigating after a Calgary police officer shot a robbery suspect.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Police in Fort McMurray seized more than $100,000 worth of drugs and cash from three homes last week.  The Edmonton Oilers traded defenseman Cody Ceci and a third-round draft pick in 2025 to the San Jose Sharks on Sunday for defenseman Ty Emberson.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  Michael Gordon Jackson is scheduled to present arguments for sentencing as part of his own defence.  Regina City Council is expected to revisit the ongoing debate around renaming Dewdney Avenue at its meeting this week.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In an announcement made Saturday by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Saskatoon’s Tracy Muggli has been appointed as an independent senator for Saskatchewan to fill a vacancy in the Senate. 