e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A San Diego developer has proposed a mixed-use project with 218 apartments and 13,800 square feet of shops and restaurants for the Carlsbad Village Plaza anchored by a Smart & Final grocery just west of Interstate 5.The retail businesses will be in two single-story buildings facing Carlsbad Village Drive. The apartments, including 22 reserved for very low income tenants, will be in two five-story buildings behind the shops and facing Oak Avenue, according to an application filed June 13 with the Carlsbad Planning Division.“Our team has worked hard to design a thoughtful project that delivers needed affordable housing and creates opportunities for local retail businesses, including a neighborhood market,” said Jonathan Frankel of the Atlantis Group, who represents the property owner, in an email.“This property will serve as a model for sustainable, transit-oriented development, and we look forward to continued dialogue with the city and Carlsbad community,” he said.The 4.12-acre site is on a Breeze bus route and about half a mile from the Carlsbad Village Coaster Station, which makes it a transit-oriented development. The Coaster provides commuter train service to eight stations from San Diego to Oceanside.The project includes a five-story parking structure and at-grade parking with a total of 350 spaces. Daily traffic generated by the project is expected to be a 65 percent reduction from the existing uses on the site or about 4,500 fewer daily vehicles, Frankel said.The residential buildings will have studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments with private balconies, a swimming pool, courtyards and other amenities. Carlsbad Village Plaza was built in the 1950s or ’60s and includes more than a dozen businesses. The Smart & Final warehouse-style grocery was formerly an Albertsons and before that a Big Bear supermarket.

Other tenants in the plaza include Texas Wine & Spirits, DeNault’s Ace Hardware, the Golden Tee Cocktail Lounge, Carlsbad French Pastry Cafe, an antique shop, a thrift store, a laundry and a pharmacy. One building on the property, formerly Mikko Sushi, is vacant.A 7-Eleven convenience store at the corner of the freeway onramp is not part of the parcel and is expected to remain.“At the earliest, staff anticipates that the project will be presented before the Planning Commission in April 2024,” said Carlsbad Senior Planner Jason Goff. “This will be a public hearing where the Planning Commission will take testimony and make a recommendation on the project to the City Council.”The commission’s recommendation could go to the Carlsbad City Council for consideration as early as July 2024, Goff said.The neighborhood is considered a gateway for visitors entering Carlsbad’s downtown Village from the I-5. The site is across Carlsbad Village Drive from the Village Lofts, a four-story mixed-use project with 106 apartments and ground-floor retail that the city approved in 2017.At five stories tall, the two apartment buildings would be among the tallest in Carlsbad. The city’s Village and Barrio Master Plan sets a height limit of four stories, but state law requires exceptions for structures that include affordable housing.Earlier this year, North County Transit District approved an exclusive negotiating agreement with West Village Partners to build another transit-oriented, mixed-use project on land the agency owns at the Carlsbad Village Coaster Station.That project will include 184 market-rate apartments and 50 affordable units, a boutique hotel, retail stores, parking and more, according to preliminary plans. Construction is expected to begin in 2025. The retail businesses will be in two single-story buildings facing Carlsbad Village Drive. The apartments, including 22 reserved for very low income tenants, will be in two five-story buildings behind the shops and facing Oak Avenue, according to an application filed June 13 with the Carlsbad Planning Division. “Our team has worked hard to design a thoughtful project that delivers needed affordable housing and creates opportunities for local retail businesses, including a neighborhood market,” said Jonathan Frankel of the Atlantis Group, who represents the property owner, in an email. “This property will serve as a model for sustainable, transit-oriented development, and we look forward to continued dialogue with the city and Carlsbad community,” he said. The 4.12-acre site is on a Breeze bus route and about half a mile from the Carlsbad Village Coaster Station, which makes it a transit-oriented development. The Coaster provides commuter train service to eight stations from San Diego to Oceanside. The project includes a five-story parking structure and at-grade parking with a total of 350 spaces. Daily traffic generated by the project is expected to be a 65 percent reduction from the existing uses on the site or about 4,500 fewer daily vehicles, Frankel said. The residential buildings will have studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments with private balconies, a swimming pool, courtyards and other amenities.  Carlsbad Village Plaza was built in the 1950s or ’60s and includes more than a dozen businesses. The Smart & Final warehouse-style grocery was formerly an Albertsons and before that a Big Bear supermarket. Other tenants in the plaza include Texas Wine & Spirits, DeNault’s Ace Hardware, the Golden Tee Cocktail Lounge, Carlsbad French Pastry Cafe, an antique shop, a thrift store, a laundry and a pharmacy. One building on the property, formerly Mikko Sushi, is vacant. A 7-Eleven convenience store at the corner of the freeway onramp is not part of the parcel and is expected to remain. “At the earliest, staff anticipates that the project will be presented before the Planning Commission in April 2024,” said Carlsbad Senior Planner Jason Goff. “This will be a public hearing where the Planning Commission will take testimony and make a recommendation on the project to the City Council.” The commission’s recommendation could go to the Carlsbad City Council for consideration as early as July 2024, Goff said. The neighborhood is considered a gateway for visitors entering Carlsbad’s downtown Village from the I-5. The site is across Carlsbad Village Drive from the Village Lofts, a four-story mixed-use project with 106 apartments and ground-floor retail that the city approved in 2017. At five stories tall, the two apartment buildings would be among the tallest in Carlsbad. The city’s Village and Barrio Master Plan sets a height limit of four stories, but state law requires exceptions for structures that include affordable housing. Earlier this year, North County Transit District approved an exclusive negotiating agreement with West Village Partners to build another transit-oriented, mixed-use project on land the agency owns at the Carlsbad Village Coaster Station. That project will include 184 market-rate apartments and 50 affordable units, a boutique hotel, retail stores, parking and more, according to preliminary plans. Construction is expected to begin in 2025. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group