
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/02/22/bp-extends-convenience-store-footprint-with-1-3b-deal-for-travelcenters-of-america/   Oil giant adds 281 highway locations as it ramps up convenience store expansion. The battle for hegemony continues in one of the hottest CRE sectors—convenience stores, particularly those paired with gas stations. BP, the British oil giant, has announced that it is acquiring TravelCenters of America (TA) for $1.3B in a cash deal. The acquisition will add 281 highway locations in 44 states operating under the TA, Petro Shopping Centers and TA Express brands. TA's locations include more than 600 full-service and quick-service restaurants as well as gas stations and repair shops for cars and trucks. Each location averages encompasses about 25 acres, according to a report in Chain Store Age. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 They consist of 22 retail and 171 residential units. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
