We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. Table of Contents Table of Contents 4.5 Pros Cons 4.5 Pros Cons If you’re going on a trip soon, you may be wondering whether to invest in travel insurance. This type of insurance can offer protection in the event that you fall ill, your plans change unexpectedly or you experience unavoidable delays.  GeoBlue is one insurance provider offering plans to travelers, with a number of plans available based on your needs. Here's a review of GeoBlue travel insurance, including the options offered and how to choose your plan.  GeoBlue insurance offers two different plans for travelers, though it focuses mainly on medical coverage. These plans are called Voyager Essential and Voyager Choice. The former offers lower coverage options than the latter and is generally cheaper (though as you'll see, not always by a large amount). The company also provides multitrip, long-term and group options for those who need them.  » Learn more: How much is travel insurance?  How much does GeoBlue cost? GeoBlue’s travel insurance is mostly medical-based and includes a comprehensive list of inclusions, though it also has coverage for some travel mishaps.  To get an idea of costs, we used a sample trip for a 33-year-old traveler from California with existing insurance heading out in August on a two-week trip.  Note that for this GeoBlue insurance review, we selected the highest coverage amount with no deductible. There are choices that allow you to include a higher deductible and a lower coverage limit, which may lower your plan cost. Here’s what the two GeoBlue plans cover: Coverage Voyager Essential Voyager Choice Medical limit $1,000,000. $1,000,000. Deductible $0. $0. Surgery, anesthesia, in-hospital doctor visits, diagnostic X-ray and lab 100%. 100%. Office visits, including X-rays and lab work billed by the attending physician 100%. 100%. Inpatient medical emergency 100%. 100%. Ambulatory surgical center 100%. 100%. Ambulance service (non-medical evacuation) 100% up to $1,000. 100% up to $1,000. Outpatient prescription drugs (outside the U.S.) 50% up to $5,000. 100% up to $5,000. Dental care required due to an injury 100% up to $300. 100% up to $500. Dental care for relief of pain 100% up to $250. 100% up to $250. Physical and occupational therapy Up to six visits, up to $100 per visit. Up to six visits, up to $100 per visit. Accidental death and dismemberment Up to $25,000. Up to $50,000. Repatriation of remains Up to $25,000. Up to $25,000. Emergency medical transportation Up to $500,000. Up to $500,000. Emergency family travel arrangements Up to $2,500 for one round-trip economy class ticket to the hospital. Up to $2,500 for one round-trip economy class ticket to the hospital. Lost baggage and personal effects coverage $500 per trip, $100 per bag or personal item. $500 per trip, $100 per bag or personal item. Trip interruption Up to $1,000. Up to $1,000. Quarantine coverage $25 per day, up to 10 days. $50 per day, up to 10 days. Hazardous activities coverage Up to $25,000. Up to $25,000. Policy cost $30.75. $37.65. As you can see, there’s not a big difference when it comes to how much GeoBlue’s plans cost, with just about $7 between the two different offerings.  In terms of benefits, most are the same as well — the biggest difference between the Voyager Essential and Voyager Choice plans comes down to prescription medication coverage and coverage related to accidental death and dismemberment. The less-expensive Essential plan pays 50% of your prescription costs, while the Choice plan covers the full 100%. As well, the Choice plan doubles accidental death coverage from Essential's $25,000 to $50,000. Other than that, differences are minimal. You’ll get less coverage for emergency dental care and quarantine expenses, but otherwise, everything else is the same.  » Learn more: How does travel insurance work? Is GeoBlue travel insurance good? Unlike many other travel insurance policies, GeoBlue’s products include coverage for hazardous activities and medical quarantine. However, while GeoBlue shines when it comes to medical coverage, it falls short in other travel insurance aspects. Many travel insurance plans provide better options in the event that your bags are delayed, your flight is canceled or you miss nonrefundable bookings.  In GeoBlue’s case, the low levels of reimbursement for these types of issues may be problematic. However, bear in mind that many travel credit cards provide complimentary travel insurance that would pair well with a GeoBlue plan.  » Learn more: What to know before buying travel insurance To purchase a GeoBlue plan online, go to the company’s website.  You’ll see the option to generate a quote and you’ll type in your trip dates, traveler's age and ZIP code.   Once you hit "Get A Quote" the results page pops up, which will give you the option to choose your deductible amount and maximum level of coverage. You can also toggle between single trip and multi trip.  Once you’ve decided on a plan, you’ll need to fill out all pertinent information including your contact information, your health plan details and beneficiary. Once you review the terms of the plan, select to payment and input your credit or debit card information.  After that, your policy will be issued.  » Learn more: 6 common travel insurance myths While it offers excellent medical care for low prices, GeoBlue’s policies fall short when it comes to other travel coverage. However, if you also have a travel credit card, you may be able to pair the two together for relatively strong travel insurance coverage at a low cost.   You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2024: Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card  Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve® Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card on Chase's website 1x-10xEarn 5x total points on flights and 10x total points on hotels and car rentals when you purchase travel through Chase Travel℠ immediately after the first $300 is spent on travel purchases annually. Earn 3x points on other travel and dining & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $900 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Chase's website 1x-5x5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Chase's website 1x-2xEarn 2X points on Southwest® purchases. Earn 2X points on local transit and commuting, including rideshare. Earn 2X points on internet, cable, and phone services, and select streaming. Earn 1X points on all other purchases. 50,000Earn 50,000 bonus points after spending $1,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105