Roob's 10 Eagles Observations: Backup CB situation becoming clearer originally appeared on NBC Sports Philadelphia The early leader for the third outside corner spot, a fascinating revelation by Trey Sermon and what practice time with the starting defense at off-ball linebacker means for Nolan Smith. It’s all here in another edition of Roob’s 10 Random Eagles Training Camp Observations. 1. Josh Jobe has quietly asserted himself as the Eagles’ top backup outside cornerback, separating from a crowded field that includes veteran free agent Greedy Williams, third-year pro Zech McPhearson, Georgia rookie Kelee Ringo, 2022 holdover Mario Goodrich and promising LSU rookie Mekhi Garner. McPhearson has been the top backup the last two years – he’s played 278 snaps on defense, exactly one in the slot. But he’s been exclusively a slot this summer and is in the mix to back up Avonte Maddox inside. Williams is a fourth-year veteran who’s started 21 games for the Browns, and he probably started out training camp as the favorite to back up Darius Slay and James Bradberry. But Jobe has outplayed him. Garner is a big, physical guy who you could see eventually landing at safety, Goodrich – who was here all last year as well – has worked both inside and outside, and Ringo has had some really good moments but also some rookie moments. Jobe has been the best of the bunch. His coverage has been consistently very good, his technique is outstanding and he’s a physical kid who doesn’t back down whether he’s covering A.J. Brown or the last guy on the roster. With Bradberry out Friday, Jobe worked with the 1’s and he looks comfortable with that group. Jobe, undrafted out of Alabama, only played 12 snaps on defense last year but he's been one of the Eagles’ most improved players this summer. And considering that Slay is 32 and Bradberry turned 30 on Friday, if the 25-year-old Jobe continues to improve, he could have an even bigger role in the future. 2. Interesting revelation from Trey Sermon, who told us after practice Friday that the coaches have put such a big emphasis on involving the running backs in the passing game this summer that all the running backs are now sitting in on some wide receiver meetings: “A lot of times, they make the running backs stand there when they’re talking to the receivers just because it’s a part of this offense and we have to be able to go out there and execute it as well. We learn a lot from the receivers just from being in the room and picking up little notes and things.” 3. On the topic of receiving backs, how about this: Keith Byars had as many 700-yard receiving seasons as every other running back in Eagles history combined. Byars had 705 yards receiving in 1988, 721 in 1989 and 819 in 1990. The only other 700-yard seasons by Eagles backs were Timmy Brown’s 849 in 1962 and Brian Westbrook’s 703 in 2004 and 771 in 2007. Byars and Marshall Faulk are the only running backs in NFL history with three straight 700-yard seasons. And Alvin Kamara and Christian McCaffrey are the only other ones with three total 700-yard seasons. 4. It’s amazing to me that with all the money, research, resources and time NFL teams devote to the draft, Reed Blankenship wasn’t one of the 262 players taken last year. Wasn’t even invited to the Combine. The knocks on him coming out of Middle Tennessee State were that he was a poor tackler, struggled in deep coverage and took bad angles to ball carriers. He put those criticisms to rest last year, and watching him this camp, you see an even more polished version of what we saw for 4 ½ games last year when Chauncey Gardner-Johnson was hurt. Blankenship has looked outstanding. He’s smart, instinctive, physical and almost always in the right place. He has the supreme confidence of a guy who intercepted Aaron Rodgers on his ninth career defensive snap and natural leadership qualities of a five-year college starter. It might have seemed like a stretch to hand Blankenship a starting safety job this summer, but he's handling it really well. 5. Kenny Gainwell has nine rushing touchdowns on 121 carries in his first two seasons. The only other running backs in NFL history with nine rushing TDs on 125 or fewer carries in their first two seasons are Tony Paige of the Jets in the mid-1980s (15 TDs on 90 attempts), Hugh Gallarneau of the Bears in the early 1940s (12 on 117 carries) and James Mungro of the Colts in 2002 and 2003 (10 on 121 carries). Two of Mungro’s TDs came against the Eagles in his second NFL game, a 35-13 Colts win at the Vet in 2002. 6. Jalen Hurts last year became the first Eagle with 750 rushing yards, a 4.5 average and at least 10 rushing TDs in back-to-back years since Steve Van Buren in 1947 and 1948. Only seven players have had three straight seasons with 750, 4.5 and 10: Adrian Pederson (2010-13), Barry Sanders (1989-91, 1995-97), Jim Taylor (1960-62), Derrick Henry (2018-2020), Terrell Davis (1996-98), Earl Campbell (1978-80) and Gratz High School’s Leroy Kelly (1996-68). All are in the Hall of Fame except A.P., who isn’t eligible yet, and Henry, who is still playing. 7. Seeing Nolan Smith get a handful of reps at off-ball linebacker on Thursday was interesting. But with Nakobe Dean out of practice on Friday, Smith didn’t just work in for a few snaps , he was with the first defense at off-ball backer alongside Christian Ellis while Nicholas Morrow worked with the second team. So the Eagles’ starting linebackers on Friday were a rookie edge rusher trying a new position and an undrafted third-year pro who’s played 29 career snaps. A lot of coaches wouldn’t throw so much at a 22-year-old rookie, but Smith is a bright kid who seems to be able to handle everything he’s been given. Sean Desai is going to be very creative with how he uses Smith, and the fact that they're already working him in at a new position tells you what they think of his ability to learn, process and execute at a high level. 8. Marcus Mariota seems to take off and run on at least half his reps. He throws to Greg Ward on the other half. 9. Nine offensive linemen have started at least 30 games for the Eagles since Jeff Stoutland became offensive line coach in 2013. Six of the nine have made at least one Pro Bowl team (Jason Kelce, Lane Johnson, Brandon Brooks, Evan Mathis, Landon Dickerson). The only exceptions (so far) are Isaac Seumalo, Jordan Mailata and Todd Herremans. 10. I’m still not sold on Quez Watkins after last year’s nightmare, but I’ll give him this: He came to camp with his head on straight and he’s got a positive attitude and has been making plays all over the place. I’ve never questioned Watkins’ ability. His 2021 season - 647 yards, 15 yards per catch as a 23-year-old 6th-round pick - gave us a taste of his potential. He’s got blazing speed and terrific ability to track a deep ball. If he can be the Quez Watkins of 2021 this offense will be unstoppable. Or even more unstoppable, if that’s a thing. What team is going to have the defenders to cover A.J. Brown, DeVonta Smith, Dallas Goedert, D’Andre Swift and Watkins? Quez still has to prove to me that his issues with drops and fumbles are in the past and that he’s back to being the confident player he was a couple years ago. And the only way he can do that is by making plays in the regular season. But so far? In camp? Wow, he’s been really really good. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.