Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Connecting to nature doesn’t have to mean skimping on luxury, as Justine Gosling finds during a stay at Lapland’s one-of-a-kind treetop pad Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Ever mused upon the simple and unconstrained life of a bird, admiring its aerial superpowers, joyful, incessant singing, and cosy nest of moss and feathers? Suspended in pine forest and completely covered with 350 bird houses, Biosphere – the latest addition to Swedish Lapland’s renowned Treehotel – is the closest most people will ever come to feeling like they’ve spent the night in an aviary (albeit an exceptionally luxe, sophisticated one). Located in the small village of Harads and created in close collaboration with Swedish ornithologist Ulf Ohman, the new 34 sq m, Bjarke Ingels Group-designed box room was inspired by our feathered friends. The idea is to immerse guests in a bird’s world, reminding them of the restorative effects of time spent in nature – and how much birds need our support. The avian architecture aims to enhance the surrounding “biosphere”, plus inspire guests to install bird boxes and feeders around their homes after their stay. “Inventories show that a number of bird populations are decreasing in the area,” says Ohman. “Forestry has reduced the number of natural holes in trees where breeding birds nest. Climate change leads to the insect boom happening earlier in the year, and by the time the birds’ eggs hatch, the boom has already passed “Furthermore, climate change leads to the insect boom happening earlier in the year, and by the time the birds’ eggs hatch, the boom has already passed. Year-round feeding is an important support.” As if offering an irresistible invitation to a flourishing, newly discovered planet, Biosphere is accessed via a suspended bridge from the forest floor. On the entrance level, a glass-walled sauna and shower room ensures all is liberatingly bared to the forest. In the lounge, a hanging chair is suspended between glass walls over a glass floor, exposing the mossy earth metres below. A double bed on the mezzanine floor presses up against the glass exterior, just inches away from the protruding bird boxes. Every element is designed to fully immerse you in the natural world. Biosphere is limited to a palette of just two colours: the brown of natural wood and coal black. The stripped-back approach is all about throwing the spotlight on nature, ensuring focus is drawn outwards into the forest, whose branches would be within touching distance were it not for the glass. Undistracted by garish interiors, I found my attention was wholly on the surrounding wildlife, as I watched a couple of Eurasian Nuthatch birds leap between branches effortlessly. Contrary to what one might assume, there’s not a smear of bird poo anywhere – birds don’t mess on their own territory, apparently (a bit of a relief with all that glass). To get even closer to the action, steps cascade from the ceiling at the touch of a button, inviting guests up to the roof terrace. After a peaceful night, a morning brew is best enjoyed among the canopy; here, the silence of the forest, heady scent of wood, and gentle sway of lanky pines all lulled me into a peaceful placidity I’ve rarely ever experienced. After just one night immersed in the forest, I felt my breathing slow, my shoulders lower, my mood switch into relaxed mode. In keeping with the whole ethos, the room has minimal impact on the environment, too. No trees were cut down for its development, while local materials were used in its construction. The room’s electricity is supplied locally from green hydroelectric power and there’s no sewage system – the toilet is an electric-powered combustion toilet. Even cleaning has been considered when it comes to Biosphere; only natural, eco-friendly products are used. Elusive moose, reindeer and black bears also call the forest home. On a hike, just 10 minutes from Biosphere, I spotted the dried poo and stripped trees that are tell-tale signs that a moose has been by. The forest is also peppered with abundant berries, wild strawberries and mushrooms – all of which can be eaten, if you know what to pick. With the Arctic at the forefront of the effects of climate change, Harads tourism planners are keen to adapt to sustainable practices, and to better connect visitors with nature so that they’re inspired to protect it. The Treehotel forest slopes down to the Lulea river, where the circular-shaped spa hotel, Arctic bath, floats. The perfect contrast to Biosphere, the luxury pad focuses on literal immersion in the river environment while having a minimal impact. The spa, for example, uses 100 per cent natural river water, while guests can swim and kayak in its invigorating waters from their floating rooms. After just one night immersed in the forest, I felt my breathing slow, my shoulders lower, my mood switch into relaxed mode I departed Lapland inspired to look after the birds around my home as best I can, and with a sense of peace and gratitude for the forest and all its creatures – even the notorious armies of female mosquitos, whose presence was evidenced by the smattering of irritating red lumps on my legs. Itchy as their legacy is, these minute vampires are an important food source for the birds – and, thus, part of the forest biosphere I’ve been inspired to protect. It’s possible to travel from London to northern Sweden by train in around 48 hours. Catch a Eurostar to Brussels, and then two onward trains to reach Hamburg, changing at Cologne. Stay over, then travel by rail to Copenhagen and change for a train to Stockholm. Sleeper trains travel overnight to Boden and Lulea near the hotel. Direct flights from London Heathrow to Lulea with SAS available; Norwegian Airlines also flies via Stockholm. A stay at Treehotel’s Biosphere starts from SEK 12,000 (£980) per night, B&B. Read More: Best hotels in Sweden Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies The unique room is suspended in the trees and covered in bird boxes Mats Engfors/Fotographic Glass dominates the design Biosphere The bed is set on a mezzanine level and features a glass roof Mats Engfors/Fotographic The architecture encourages guests to the feed birds Mats Engfors/Fotographic Biosphere is surrounded by forest Mats Engfors/Fotographic Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: Want an ad-free experience? 