CHELSEA, MI -- The Chelsea Treehouse has been a go-to spot for many families during the past 17 years, but a recent announcement may put an end to the business. Although she said she is open to prospective buyers, The Chelsea Treehouse owner Michele Balaka has announced she will retire and not renew her building lease that ends in June. Balaka said she wants to help her two children with their own businesses. “My kids are going on to some other super fun stuff,”  she said. “My lease is ending at a very good time for me to close this chapter and open the next chapter with my kids as grown adults.” The Chelsea Treehouse, 1101 S. Main St., opened in 2006 when Balaka decided to bring a mix of a café and play space to Chelsea. As a stay-at-home mom, she said she wanted create a business where kids could be kids and parents could relax The nearly 9,000-square-foot location has welcomed families from all over Michigan and the country solely through word of mouth. The business has become known for its play structures, birthday parties and for being “an extension of people’s lives,” Balaka said. Even though she will close the business, Balaka said there is still a chance it could live on under new ownership since its trademark and equipment is for sale. So far, Balaka said there has been “a lot of interest” from prospective buyers to continue the business. “What I want to do is give another family the opportunity to continue the legacy of the treehouse,” she said. “So I am not negotiating (and) I won’t haggle. If the person’s not the right person, I’m packing it up.” Balaka envisions the next owner will be someone who is just as passionate about The Chelsea Treehouse as she is. She said she is looking for someone who will keep its core values and continue to bring the service The Chelsea Treehouse is known for. While this may be an emotional time, Balaka said the change is a positive experience for the business and for herself. “This was the best thing that could have ever happened to me personally,” she said. “I do not want anybody to be sad (because) I really have everybody’s best interest. I won’t sell it if the right person does not come around.” Read more from The Ann Arbor News: Dingell helps net $7 million for new Ypsilanti Transit Center Suspected drunken driver dies in crash with tree between Ann Arbor and Saline Learn about love, play trivia at adults-only Valentine’s Day event at Ann Arbor museum If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices