The Pittsburgh Penguins announced a flurry of promotions within their front office on Thursday, which included the appointment of Kyle Dubas as general manager. Dubas was hired as the Penguins' president of hockey operations in June, and was conducting the search for a new general manager before ultimately assuming the position himself. "At this time, I feel it is best for continuity that I formally continue in both roles as President and General Manager in the hockey operations department," said Dubas via the team's website. "We will continue to reevaluate the GM position alongside all others in future off-seasons, to ensure that we are optimizing all facets of the department. We have a small but extremely dedicated management team here, and I have come to know each of them quite well over the last couple of months." The 37-year-old was fired as GM of the Toronto Maple Leafs in May after five seasons at the helm, while the executive was deciding between extending his contract with the Leafs or stepping away from hockey for a bit. Pittsburgh was quick to act, swooping in and hiring Dubas to run their hockey operations department after parting ways with previous president of hockey ops Brian Burke and general manager Ron Hextall. The Penguins failed to make the playoffs for the first time since the 2006-07 season. The Penguins continued to form Dubas' front office with Thursday's promotions, notably bumping Trevor Daley and Amanda Kessel up to the roles of special assistant to the general manager. Daley, a 16-year NHL veteran and two-time Stanley Cup champion with Pittsburgh, spent the last three seasons as a hockey operations advisor, helping with player evaluation at the NHL and AHL level. Kessel, a former United States Women's National Team star and Olympic gold medalist, recently completed a year in the team's executive management program, and will focus her work in hockey research and development in her new role, among other things. Dubas and the Penguins also brought in longtime NHLer and Toronto front office protegé Jason Spezza as an assistant general manager on June 14. Khelif’s dominant showing will only inflame the debate over whether she should be allowed to compete at the Paris Olympics. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Every driver involved in the late crash was uninjured. Analyst Fred Zinkie examines the biggest discrepancies between his 2024 fantasy football rankings and those of the rest of the Yahoo Fantasy team. Steven Sabino was disqualified after a false start in his men's 100 preliminary round, ending his Olympic Games without ever running. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Should Trey McBride be the fantasy football TE1 in drafts this season? Here's Dalton Del Don on that and more. Dillon entered Sunday night's race 32nd in the points standings. Miami Dolphins receiver Tyreek Hill says he wants to race Olympic gold medalist Noah Lyles, publicly challenging him on social media. The Minnesota Vikings will honor Khyree Jackson with helmet decals this season. Coaches will wear matching pins. The rookie was killed in an automobile crash in early July. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. The Steelers and 49ers reportedly have the framework of a deal in place for Brandon Aiyuk. Photos of the finish between USA's Noah Lyles and Jamaica's Kishane Thompson show how close the result truly was. The 49ers might be close to trading one of their best players. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their running back rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The modern pentathlon has its own hypothetical backstory: Imagine a soldier trapped behind enemy lines. What would that soldier need to know and do to escape? The Indiana Fever have won two consecutive games coming out of the WNBA's Olympics break, beating the Seattle Storm on Sunday, 92–75. If you needed more proof of just how iconic Turkish pistol shooter Yusuf Dikeç has become during these 2024 Paris Olympics, look no further than Swedish pole vaulter Armand Duplantis. McIntosh announced herself as perhaps the finest female swimmer on the planet. Sara Hughes and Kelly Cheng lost 2-0 to Switzerland's Tanja Hueberli and Nina Brunner on Tuesday, eliminating the remaining American women from the tournament.