Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement Information technology is the design and implementation of computer networks for data processing and communication. This includes designing the hardware for processing information and connecting separate components, and developing software that can efficiently and faultlessly analyse and distribute this data. According to a recent study, a small network consisting of four leaky integrate-and-fire neurons can reproduce the behavior of a single Hodgkin–Huxley neuron, thereby bridging the gap between endogenous and exogenous complexity. According to a recent study, a small network consisting of four leaky integrate-and-fire neurons can reproduce the behavior of a single Hodgkin–Huxley neuron, thereby bridging the gap between endogenous and exogenous complexity. Approval of three quantum-proof algorithms caps eight-year global effort to make the Internet safe from attacks using future computers. An article in IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications presents a vehicle-based vision–radar system designed for precise, real-time positioning of UAV clusters. Analysing reflections of light in the eyes can help to determine an image’s authenticity. Sensors are extensively used in the Internet of Things (IoT) applications, enhancing daily convenience but also raising concerns about privacy leakage. To address this, we advocate for protecting data privacy at the moment it is generated by sensors, rather than trying to secure it afterwards. Building robust AI systems that always outperform people might be harder than thought, say researchers who studied Go-playing bots. 

                    Nature.com 
                
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited