
  Looking for a place to enjoy a delicious Italian meal in South Cumbria?
 
  With the help of popular review site Tripadvisor, we have compiled a list of some of South Cumbria’s best rated restaurants.
 
Misto
 
  Found on Compston Road in Ambleside, Misto offers flexible eating arrangements with the ability to dine in, enjoy the scenery with outdoor seating, or pick up a pizza to go with in-store collection.
 
  One reviewer said: “Restaurant was busy so we had to wait for a table which was no problem as the staff were so friendly and attentive.
 
  “We both had a starter and a main and all of our dishes were absolutely delicious and well presented. Would definitely go back again and also recommend the restaurant to anyone visiting Ambleside.”
 
  Misto has been rated 536 times with an average score of 4.5/5.
 
San Pietro Restaurant Windermere
 
  Found on Jester Court, Birch Street, Windermere, is ran by former Marco Pierre Chef Jason Turner, offering Italian and International cuisine.
 
  One reviewer said: “Wonderful service. Wonderful restaurant. Scrumptious food. Will definitely be returning this year in 2023. Worth a recommendation.”
 
  Another said: “We were visiting Windermere for my partners birthday and pre booked San Pietro after reading great reviews.
 
  “Wow what a find! This didn't disappoint, the service, atmosphere and food were all fantastic. We had the calamari and prawns to start and both had the seabass with the ravioli for main and it was one of the best meals we have had. We will definitely be back.”
 
  San Pietro Restaurant Windermere has been rated 630 times with an average score of 4.5/5.
 
Dodds Restaurant
 
  Found on Rydal Road, Ambleside, the restaurant welcomes customers to join them for lunch or just a coffee, or an evening of relaxation with ‘good food, fine wines and cool beers’ all served with a warm welcome.
 
  One reviewer said: “Amazing little gem! Very warm and welcoming, cosy atmosphere. We had the chicken wings for a starter, which were delicious! Both had pizzas for our mains and they were both delicious! Perfect crust! Highly recommend and will definitely return!”
 
  Dodds Restaurant has been rated 3,028 times with an average rating of 4.5/5.
 
Villa Positano
 
  Villa Positano can be found on Ash Street, Bowness-on-Windermere.
 
  According to Tripadvisor, it offers cuisines such as Italian, pizza, Mediterranean, European, Neapolitan, Campania, Sicilian and Southern-Italian.”
 
  One reviewer said: “We last visited this cosy Italian restaurant many years ago before moving to the USA, when we spent a memorable evening here with old friends. One always wonders how returning after so long will go.
 
  “Well, the experience was just as great as ever: an enthusiastic and warm welcome, classic food and a nice off-list wine choice recommended by the owner. Cracking dessert and all round a fabulous evening.”
 
  Villa Positano has been rated 1,824 times with an average rating of 4.5/5.
 
Rastelli Ristorante-Pizzeria
 
  This restaurant can be found on Lake Road in Bowness-on-Windermere.
 
  The restaurant describes itself as offering ‘authentic Italian cuisine in the heart of the Lake District’.
 
  One reviewer said: “Delicious pasta and wonderful service. The table next to us had the calzone which looked amazing, and I want to try next time.”
 
  This restaurant has been rated 1,459 times and has an average rating of 4.5/5.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.