Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is a benefit paid to eligible members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force and Coast Guard. Congress has given each service the ability to pay up to 100% for the tuition expenses of its members. Military service offers a tremendous array of education benefits that can be used while you are on active duty or after you leave the service. A good education is essential to your career both in uniform and out, so take advantage of the education benefits you've earned. While in service, members have access to up to $4,500 a year in Tuition Assistance. TA is paid to the school on a per class basis. Service members can also use GI Bill benefits, although it is seldom a good idea to do so while on active duty. Each service has its own criteria for eligibility, obligated service, application process and restrictions. This money is usually paid directly to the institution by the individual services. Additionally, active-duty members may elect to use the GI Bill "Top-Up" in addition to their service-provided TA to cover high-cost courses. TA is not a loan; it should be viewed as money you have earned just like your base pay. However, the U.S. Army acknowledged in April 2024 that it is seeking cuts to its tuition assistance program as well as its Credentialing Assistance program. It's unclear what prompted the Army’s benefits review. Recap of program: 100% tuition & fees, not to exceed: 100% tuition & fees, not to exceed: 100% tuition & fees, not to exceed: 100% tuition & fees, not to exceed: 100% tuition & fees, not to exceed: Tuition Assistance can be used for undergraduate, graduate, vocational, licensure, certificate, and language courses, or to complete a high school education. Funds may be used for either in-person or online classes. Funding may be used to cove: Tuition Assistance cannot be paid if you leave the service before your course ends or if you fail the course. Tuition Assistance also cannot be paid if you drop out of the class, but there are exceptions to this. These exceptions include developing an illness, a military transfer, or mission requirements. In cases where you’d already received TA, if you’re later deemed ineligible to be paid, you’d have to pay the money back. Additionally, Tuition Assistance benefits do not cover: Each military branch has its own TA application form and procedures. Check out our detailed pages explaining the program regulations for each service:  Whether you need a guide on how to use your GI Bill, want to take advantage of tuition assistance and scholarships, or get the lowdown on education benefits available for your family, Military.com can help. Subscribe to Military.com to have education tips and benefits updates delivered directly to your inbox. Jim Absher is Military.com's former benefits editor and columnist. He joined the Navy to see the world and later realized the world is two-thirds water. He also worked for the Department of Veterans Affairs in field offices and Washington, D.C. before coming to Military.com in 2015.
        Read Full Bio
 For at least a month, soldiers have been reporting issues accessing their benefits though Army IgnitED, an online portal that... The following will offer answers to the most frequently asked questions about the GI Bill. Here are the answers to some of the most common questions about the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Pursuing education after military service should be done with considerable thought and evaluation. With college costs continuing to rise, you probably haven't saved enough to foot the bill for a higher education. With so many options for paying for school it can often be difficult to figure out which benefit is best for you. College tuition can be very expensive, but that shouldn't stop you from attending. Here are 5 tips on saving for college. Student debt is a ticking time bomb that threatens to derail many young adults' financial futures. Federal Student Aid is designed to assist you in meeting the cost of tuition, books, fees and living expenses while you go to... When should you file your FAFSA? The short answer is: it depends. Completing the FAFSA is the first step in accessing the more than $150 billion available in federal student aid. Read some surprising facts about the cost of education and applying for federal student aid. Students who lost a parent in Iraq or Afghanistan after Sept. 11, 2001, may be eligible for the maximum federal Pell Grant. Note: The Troops to Teachers program ended on Oct. 1, 2020. This information is for historical purposes only. Scholarship applications for 2022 are now open for active duty and veterans Learn the truth about using scholarships to help cover your education costs. Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us.