Win the WABE Summer Adventure! Click to donate and enter! 
Rahul Bali
|													WABE
											 October 19th, 2023 The sales of medical cannabis products in independent pharmacies in Georgia could begin by the end of the month, potentially creating a significant expansion in access and making Georgia the first state in the nation to allow it. Currently, in Georgia, medical cannabis products are sold in seven dispensaries, which are run by Georgia’s two in-state producers, Botanical Sciences and Trulieve. Under Georgia law, they are also allowed to sell their products in independent pharmacies. Those wanting access to medical cannabis products would need to be registered on the state’s Low THC Oil Registry.  Speaking at this month’s State Board of Pharmacy meeting, Executive Director Eric Lacefield said that rules passed by the board in June took effect Oct. 4.  The gap included time for Gov. Brian Kemp’s office to review the board’s regulations. Lacefield also told the board that he had put 27 applications from independent pharmacies into their system. At the same meeting on Wednesday, Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency Director Dennis Troughton said they more than a dozen of those are in his hands and headed toward the next step. “So we will be doing our first inspection Friday down in Southwest Georgia. That will be, so that will be our first low THC pharmacy dispensary dispensing inspection.” Troughton told board members that he does expect questions from pharmacists on various issues, including labeling. Gary Long, CEO of Botanical Sciences, one of Georgia’s two producers, expects their products to be available in independent pharmacies by the end of the month. In an interview earlier this month, Long told WABE they already had 120 independent pharmacies on board. “This provides not only access but equitable access to patients in even the far reaches of our state, not just in the cities.” Oct 19, 2023 Oct 18, 2023 Oct 18, 2023 WABE’s mission is simple: “Inform, inspire, reflect and empower our greater Atlanta community. ” We do that through the news, information, and entertainment we bring you via radio and TV, on your phone, in your car, on your smart speaker, or online at the new WABE.org—anywhere and everywhere throughout greater Atlanta. And we can only do this with your help. Please consider becoming a member of WABE today. 2015 – 2024 90.1 FM WABE
 2015 – 2024 90.1 FM WABE