Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. If you live in a major city, odds are public transportation is an essential part of your daily routine. As I'm originally from Houston, Texas, possibly one of the only major cities in the US that lacks an efficient transit system, learning the New York City subway system has been an experience.   Also: How to add your driver's license to the Apple Wallet app Paying for my ride, however, has been kept simple thanks to my iPhone and Apple Watch.   Whether you want to use your city's official transportation card or your personal credit card, here's how you can use Apple Wallet to quickly "scan in" to your ride.  On your iPhone, go to the settings menu and scroll down to Wallet & Apple Pay.  After you've selected the Wallet & Apple Pay option, you'll see any cards and passes that have already been registered for Apple Pay. Underneath those cards, tap the Express Transit Card option. Unlike typical mobile payment methods, Express Transit Card does not require a Face ID scan or passcode to access in order to expedite the boarding process. What you'll see when you click into Wallet & Apple Pay. Scroll down and click the Express Transit Card option. Now, you'll have the option to either use one of your cards on file or manually add a credit, debit, or public transit card. Once you've entered in the billing information, the card will automatically appear next to the Express Transit Card setting. You can always change the default payment method by repeating this step. The next time you're at a public transit stop, instead of fumbling with your wallet and device settings, simply hold your Apple Watch or iPhone against the reader to initiate the payment. It's that seamless. Also: How to use Apple Pay in stores and online Most major public transit companies in hub cities in the United States accept payments via Apple Wallet. Click here to see if your city -- in or outside of the United States -- supports mobile transactions.  Apple Pay is integrated within Apple Wallet. With Apple Pay, you can share and send money to contacts and other Apple users. The Apple Wallet is an overarching entity for storing your different payment methods, including Apple Cash and even your virtual boarding passes for travel.  No. Apple Wallet comes included with your iPhone and Apple Watch. You also don't have to pay to store your credit and debit cards in the app.  