By Raven Saunt For Dailymail.Com   Published:  13:48 EDT, 27 May 2023   |  Updated:  13:53 EDT, 27 May 2023      499 View  comments  This fiendishly difficult brainteaser has left people scratching their heads. The hidden word puzzle, designed by Jagran Josh, challenges observers to find the word 'pathologist' hidden within the jumble of letters. It states that only 'highly attentive individuals can spot the hidden word in nine seconds.' But are you able to spot it within the time?  The hidden word puzzle, designed by Jagran Josh , challenges observers to find the word 'pathologist' hidden within the jumble of letters For anyone new to this type of puzzle, the hidden word can be found within the jumble of letters above. It can run up or down, left to right or even diagonally. The website states that this is only a 'moderate-level challenge' so should be an easy one to crack within the time limit. Elaborating further, the site wrote: 'Individuals with good observation skills will be able to spot the word within the time limit. 'The way the letters in the grid are arranged makes it difficult to identify at first glance.' Still struggling? If you need a hint, the direction of the letters may be making the word difficult to identify at first glance. And, for those still finding it difficult, the solution can be found in the second column on the left-hand side of the image. For those still struggling, the solution can be found in the second column on the left-hand side of the image Even if you struggled with this word puzzle - often referred to as a word search - you should continue to persevere. 'While word searches may not seem like the most stimulating activities, they can do some good for aging brains. 'Because the process for solving a word search is to look at the "clue" of a few letters to find a word, this activity can help seniors sharpen their reasoning skills. 'Because seniors have to consider both the length of the word and its position, multiple parts of the brain are activated,' according to Port St. Lucie Hospital in Florida. 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group