MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More Alex Carver is a writer and researcher based in Charlotte, N.C. A contributor to major news websites such as Automoblog and USA Today, she’s written content in sectors such as insurance, warranties, shipping, real estate and more. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the best pet insurance companies  Lemonade and Trupanion offer accident and illness coverage for your pet. You can compare both providers side-by-side using the table below.  Lemonade is the only completely digital provider in the pet insurance industry, offering customizable accident and illness coverage with an easy-to-use mobile app. Based out of New York, the company uses artificial intelligence to provide easy enrollment, claims processing and customer service. And by automating its underwriting operations, Lemonade can cut down on company costs to market some of the lowest monthly premiums industry-wide. Lemonade offers one pet insurance plan that covers a range of pet-related accidents, illnesses, hereditary conditions and chronic conditions. The company covers veterinary services that include: You can further personalize your policy by choosing from the following options: For more robust coverage, you can add preventative care coverage to your pet insurance plan. Lemonade offers two wellness plan options for adult animals and one specifically for puppies and kittens. These routine care riders cover routine care like annual wellness exams, vaccinations, parasite tests, and for younger pets, microchipping and spay or neuter surgeries. However, Lemonade is only available in certain states and Washington, D.C. Lemonade excludes pet medical expenses related to the following: Lemonade extends waiting periods of two days for accidents and 14 days for illnesses. The company will not cover orthopedic conditions like hip dysplasia or cruciate ligament injuries for six months. Compare Plans in Your State Today Based on the quotes we gathered, pet insurance with Lemonade costs around $37 per month for dogs and $15 for cats. Your cost of pet insurance may vary depending on your pet’s age, breed, location and health status. Older pets and breeds prone to congenital conditions typically incur a more expensive premium since they present a higher risk based on an increased likelihood of needing medical care. Lemonade offers discounts if you bundle your pet insurance with another policy, like Lemonade renters insurance or homeowners coverage. It also offers a discount if you enroll multiple pets in coverage and pay your annual premium in full. To give you an idea of how much Lemonade pet insurance costs each month, we pulled sample quotes for different pets in Ojai, Calif. The below estimates are based on an accident and illness policy with an 80% reimbursement option, a $20,000 coverage limit and a $250 deductible. To learn more: Read our Lemonade pet insurance review Like Lemonade, Trupanion offers standard pet insurance coverage with its accident and illness policy. It covers a variety of medical expenses related to approved conditions, including: Trupanion does not have a preventive care plan, but it does offer other coverage options for pet owners looking to maximize their policy. All of Trupanion’s policies include a 90% reimbursement rate and unlimited coverage. While most pet insurance companies (like Lemonade) feature annual deductibles that renew each year, Trupanion extends lifetime per-condition deductibles. Pet parents can choose between deductible options of $0 to $1,000. Once you meet the copay for a specific condition, you do not have to pay it again if that condition reoccurs. Trupanion is also unique in offering direct payment at your vet’s office, versus a traditional reimbursement or payout after you file a claim. While Trupanion pet insurance covers pet care related to accidents and illnesses, it does not cover everything. The company will not reimburse vet expenses related to the following: Trupanion pet insurance is only available to dogs and cats under 14 years old. The company extends a five-day waiting period for injuries and 30 days for illnesses. Based on our quotes, Trupanion pet insurance costs around $70 per month for dogs and $40 for cats. Keep in mind that your premium may differ depending on your pet’s age, species, breed and location. Your policy selections, such as your deductible and reimbursement percentage, can also affect your monthly cost. Adding extra coverage will also increase your premium. For example, we found the Complementary Care rider can add between $3 to $5 a month for cats and $7 to $9 for dogs. Trupanion currently only offers a discount to customers with an assistance animal or therapy pet. The chart below includes sample quotes we gathered for different pets based in Ojai, Calif. Each figure is based on Trupanion’s accident and illness policy with a 90% reimbursement rate, unlimited annual coverage and a $200 deductible per covered condition. To help you get a feel for the customer experience, we reviewed dozens of customer testimonials on reputable sites like Trustpilot. Lemonade has a 4.8 out of 5-star rating on the site. Many customers seem satisfied with the provider’s quick claim processing times and convenient plan management features. But while some customers find AI-powered customer service valuable, others struggle to find resolutions for more complex inquiries. “Lemonade continues to impress. I have an 11-year-old senior dog and most companies wouldn’t offer any coverage. Lemonade accepted him right away and has been excellent to work with. We’ve had numerous claims for routine services and illnesses and accidents, including [coverage for] 90% of a $7,000 knee surgery bill! The claims process is very easy, the service is fast and personable and [Lemonade] never fails to approve claims (as long as they aren’t related to pre-existing conditions).” —Fredrik A. via Trustpilot “I am currently in the process of trying to file a claim, but the app experience is not convenient or flexible enough for my case. [I] tried contacting Lemonade through various channels. The main phone line is a dead-end—simply no response and dead air after an initial message. [I] tried contacting via chat but no real person, only an AI bot.” —Thomas K. via Trustpilot Trupanion offers pet insurance with unlimited annual benefits, customizable per-condition deductibles and a variety of coverage add-ons. The company holds a 4.2 out of 5-star rating on Trustpilot. Based on customer reviews, Trupanion’s vet payment option seems popular among current policyholders. Pet owners facing costly emergency bills can avoid paying out-of-pocket with Trupanion’s option to compensate veterinarians directly rather than waiting on a claims payout. But some customer complaints mention confusion surrounding the company’s policy exclusions. “Recently, we had to submit a claim for our sweet fur baby Mona. Our vet was able to submit the invoice while we were in the office and it was preapproved before we left. I found this extremely efficient, which decreased our anxiety regarding the financial cost of the vet visit. Overall our experience with Trupanion has been a positive one.” —Bonita D. via Trustpilot “There are too many excluded items. I expected a deductible and copay, but [Trupanion] also doesn’t cover taxes, an additional 13% in my jurisdiction. And its exclusion of examination fees isn’t just for wellness exams. When my dog was diagnosed with cancer, [Trupanion] refused to pay for the consultation with an oncologist and the fee for the surgeon.” —Bryan P. via Trustpilot When comparing top pet insurance providers like Lemonade and Trupanion, it’s important to consider the specific coverage needs of your pet and your overall budget. While Lemonade and Trupanion both base accident and illness coverage, Lemonade is cheaper and offers more policy customization. However, Trupanon extends unlimited coverage and features add-ons for services like physical therapy, breeding and pet burial costs. We recommend you get a free quote from both providers before choosing a policy. You can also check out our guide to cheap pet insurance policies for alternatives like Pets Best. Based on quotes we gathered, a standard pet health insurance plan through Trupanion costs approximately $70 per month for dogs and $40 for cats. Your cost may vary depending on your policy selections, your pet and your location. On average, Lemonade pet insurance costs around $37 per month for dogs and $15 for cats. Lemonade allows you to select your deductible, annual coverage limit and reimbursement rate, which can help to customize your premium. Trupanion does not cover vet bills related to your pet’s routine care. But Lemonade offers two pet wellness plans, one for adult animals and one for puppies and kittens. We review each pet insurance company based on factors most important to pet parents like you. Our process includes in-depth industry research into each provider, such as comparing coverage options, gathering quotes online to determine pricing and reading reviews to assess customer service. To better inform our reviews, we’ve surveyed 3,000 dog and cat owners nationwide to determine the most important elements of pet insurance coverage. We’ve also bought pet insurance plans for 10 of our team’s pets to test the customer experience of various providers for ourselves.  We then score each provider on a 100-point scale and calculate an overall rating out of five stars. Here are more details about the factors we consider when reviewing pet insurance providers: We use our rating system to compare each company we review and determine the best pet insurance companies in the industry. To learn more, read our full pet insurance methodology to see how we review and score providers.  If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Alex Carver is a writer and researcher based in Charlotte, N.C. A contributor to major news websites such as Automoblog and USA Today, she’s written content in sectors such as insurance, warranties, shipping, real estate and more. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.