By Live Commentary   Updated:  13:09 EDT, 21 March 2023      23 View  comments  The FTSE 100 has closed up 1.8% or 132.4 points to 7536.2. Among the companies with reports and trading updates today are Kingfisher, Scottish Mortgage, MP Evans, Trustpilot, YouGov, Pearson and Oxford Nanopore. Read the Tuesday 21 March Business Live blog below.  > If you are using our app or a third-party site click here to read Business Live  Host commentator Host commentator Host commentator Just before close, the FTSE 100 was 1.74% higher at 7,532.76. Meanwhile, the FTSE 250 was 1.55% higher at 18,781.51. Trustpilot's founder has declared his intention to step back from his chief executive role as the company reported lower losses in its annual results. Peter Holten Mühlmann will transition from being CEO of the online review website to a non-executive director, where he will be 'an evangelist and brand ambassador,' the group said. With new petrol and diesel cars set to be banned from showrooms in the UK in 2030 and across Europe from 2035, there could still be life in the internal combustion engine beyond these deadlines, according to leaked documents. A draft proposal from the European Commission - reportedly seen by Reuters on Tuesday - will allow sales of new cars with internal combustion engines that run only on climate neutral e-fuels. Bitcoin has rallied to its highest price in nine months in the wake of the ongoing banking turmoil in the US and Europe. The world's biggest and most well-known cryptocurrency soared to $28,554 yesterday, the highest since mid-June last year, but was down 0.3 per cent for the day to $28,085 on Tuesday afternoon. The latest rally leaves bitcoin up 70 per cent since the start of the year and 40 per cent higher than its most recent low of $20,195 on 11 March.  Another of Britain's biggest supermarkets is set to shut down stores on Easter Sunday, with staff set to be given the day off.  Sainsbury's is primed to shut 600 of its larger branches on April 9 in line with Government regulations.  Millennials and Generation Z may be sitting on a hidden goldmine, as auctioneers report a surge of interest is leading classic items like Pokémon cards, Casio watches and Lego to sell for tens of thousands of pounds. Traditional auction items such as antiques, jewellery and art have growing competition from newer, traditionally less expensive items that many people had as children in the 1990s and 2000s, according to auction search engine Barnebys. The British Honey Company, a UK based producer of honey and craft spirits, is set to fall into administration after failing to secure long-term funding and find a buyer.   Shares in the company behind the Keepr's and Two Birds brands were suspended on the Aquis exchange on Tuesday, pending the appointment of administrators at FRP Advisory. First Republic jumped 20 percent in premarket action this morning as it led a comeback rally in US regional banks amid widespread uncertainty in the sector. Shares in the San Francisco lender were last trading at $15.21 after closing at $12.18 Monday when it was left out of a broader rally even as major US banks pumped $30 billion into its coffers.  (PA) - Currys is handing its store staff another pay rise, bringing hourly rates just above new minimum wage laws coming into effect next month. The retailer said it is increasing its pay to £10.50 an hour from £10.35 an hour for about 10,000 of its staff across the UK. It means its starting salaries will not fall short of the national living wage for UK workers aged 23 and over, which will be set at £10.42 from April 1 and is a legal requirement for most employers. Store workers at Currys in London will see their wages increase to a minimum of £11.50 an hour from £11.43. The technology retailer, which has more than 300 stores, said it marks the fourth time it has raised minimum pay in a year and a half. The average store worker at Currys earns 89p per hour as a bonus, the firm highlighted, meaning its average hourly pay rises to £11.39 per hour once the bonus is taken into account. The top earners, accounting for about 1,000 store staff, make up to £3 an hour as a bonus.Currys said its bonus scheme makes it one of the highest-paying retailers in the UK. Manchester United will be sold for a world record fee – should the Glazers accept one of the incoming bids for control of the club. Officials are confident that offers of more than £5bn will be forthcoming ahead of Wednesday's deadline, which would eclipse the $4.65bn paid for the NFL’s Denver Broncos last year. Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust has announced a shake-up of its board, following a row regarding the appointment of new executives. Chair Fiona McBain will step down at the conclusion of the firm's annual general meeting sometime in June, having served six years in the post and 14 years overall as a director at the flagship Baillie Gifford investment trust. She will be replaced by Justin Dowley, who is the fund's senior independent director and chairman of Melrose Industries, which is known for buying and turning around struggling engineering businesses. YouGov has shrugged off 'a difficult macro environment', with profits more than doubling in its first half. The London-listed polling company reported pre-tax profit of £21million in the six months to the end of January, up from £9.2million in the same period last year. Revenue rose 30 per cent to £131.4million, boosted by continued sales growth in its panel-based custom research business.  The rescue of one big beast in Swiss banking, Credit Suisse, by another, UBS, may not appear to have much to do with Britain’s economic problems. But the ongoing crisis in global banking — which began more than two weeks ago with the sensational failure of the £174 billion Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) in San Francisco — has the capacity to impact us all. Victoria Scholar, head of investment at interactive investor, sums up what's moving markets this morning: Sentiment has turned more positive across European markets with banks outperforming after the turmoil in recent sessions. The FTSE 100 has opened higher with Barclays, NatWest and Lloyds trading near the top of the basket. UBS is in the green while Credit Suisse remains under pressure as investors digest the arranged marriage.  Improved risk appetite is dampening demand for safe-haven stocks like Fresnillo and Haleon which are lagging broader gains on the UK large-cap index. Focus turns to the Fed’s two-day policy meeting which begins today. Markets are pricing in around a 70% chance of a quarter percentage point rate hike on Wednesday with 30% chance of no change in what is shaping up to be one of the most uncertain decisions of the current rate hiking cycle.  Monetary policymakers are weighing up the extent of the lingering inflationary pressures versus the potential deflationary impact of the banking crisis following SVB’s collapse and Credit Suisse’s takeover. The US dollar is languishing near five-week lows, reflecting the uncertainty around this week’s Fed decision. B&Q and Screwfix owner Kingfisher has revealed a sharp decline in profits from record levels achieved in the wake of the pandemic.  The DIY retailer's sales and profits tumbled last year, having seen 2021 performance supercharged by customers splashing out on renovations while spending more time at home as a result of Covid-19 restrictions. However, Kingfisher's 2022 performance was still at the top end of market expectations, thanks to demand from households looking to slash their bills. Kingfisher told investors on Tuesday that more than £1 in every £10 it made last year came from energy and water-saving products. Wall Street rallied on Monday, as investors heaved a tentative sigh of relief that the banking crisis could be contained by a historic emergency rescue of financial heavyweight Credit Suisse over the weekend. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 383 points, or 1.2 percent, to 32,245 at the closing bell, following wild swings last week over concerns about the stability of the banking system. Julie Palmer, partner at Begbies Traynor: 'Suggestions Britons have fallen out of love with DIY are wrong, though B&Q and Screwfix-owner Kingfisher’s results show the relationship is not quite as passionate as it was during Covid lockdowns. 'Coronavirus limiting movements and freedom to mingle drove bored consumers to improve their homes, boosting sales of everything needed to make staying in more pleasant. 'Kingfisher’s year-on-year sales decline is only to be expected, along with profits slipping, as lower demand and cost pressures strain the business. 'But proving that DIY – or DIFM, getting a professional in to ‘Do It For Me’ – remains strong is the growth in sales compared with pre-pandemic levels. 'With worries about where house prices are going in light of increasingly costly mortgages, many people will be improving, not moving, for the foreseeable future, giving Kingfisher a foundation on which to continue to build.' Amazon is axing another 9,000 jobs on top of the 18,000 staff it laid off just two months ago. It takes the number of job losses in the tech sector to more than 300,000 since the start of last year.  Amazon chief executive Andy Jassy told staff: ‘This was a difficult decision, but one that we think is best for the company long term.’ British power plant generator Drax will pause its planned multi-million pound investment in bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) in the UK until it gets more clarity over government support.  Whilst Drax welcomed the UK government's recent budget support for carbon capture and storage (CCS), it said it needed a firm commitment to BECCS before it could commit to investing £2billion into installing this technology at Drax Power Station, its 2.6 gigawatt biomass power plant in Yorkshire, northern England. 'Until we have this clarity, we are pausing our multi-million pound investment programme in the UK BECCS project,' Drax CEO Will Gardiner said in a statement. Gardiner urged the government to use a planned announcement on measures to support energy security at the end of this month to outline its support. The current support for the plant through the renewables obligations and contract for difference schemes will expire in March 2027 and could make it uncommercial to operate the plant after that, a Drax spokesperson told Reuters. London-listed stocks have rallied strongly this morning with lenders bouncing back as fears of a banking crisis appear to ease, while the focus shifted to the US Federal Reserve ahead of its rate-setting meeting. Fears of a global banking meltdown look to be easing after UBS agreed to buy its beleaguered rival Credit Suisse for $3.23billion over the weekend. The FTSE 350 Banks index is up 2.4 per cent, with Barclays, Natwest and Lloyds among the top risers.  Weakness in the pound has also aided the exporter-heavy FTSE 100. Kingfisher is up 1.3 per cent after reporting its full-year earnings.  John Lewis risks becoming ‘just another Debenhams or Sports Direct’ if it scraps its cherished staff ownership model, campaigners fear. The 158-year-old retailer is currently owned by its 74,000 employees - meaning it is run for their benefit.  When Saudi National Bank (SNB) chairman Ammar Al Khudairy was asked if it would increase its stake in Credit Suisse on Wednesday last week, he replied: ‘Absolutely not’. They may prove to be two of the most costly words ever uttered on television. The comments, during a Bloomberg interview, sent shares into freefall and days later the troubled Swiss lender was taken over by its arch-rival UBS at a knockdown price. Director at Edison Group Fiona Orford-Williams: 'YouGov is in the final stretch of its current growth plan, targeted on doubling revenue, adjusted operating profit margin and driving a 30% CAGR in earnings per share, and these interim results show the result of the group's efforts to achieve those goals. Underlying revenue growth in the first half up 13% reflects a particularly strong showing in panel-based Custom Research, where large, strategic projects in the US and elsewhere, lifted underlying revenue growth by 28%. 'Operating margins here and in the group's Data Products segment both showed good growth as the operating leverage kicks in more strongly. Data Services had a more difficult reporting period, with underlying revenues down 9% with some softness in demand in Europe. Overall group adjusted operating profit margin climbed from 14% to 17%, which is clearly very strong progress. 'No news yet on the appointment of a new CEO to take over in August, when the current CEO, Stephan Shakespeare, moves across to Non-Executive Chair, although the appointment process is obviously well underway. The market will be keen to hear both that news and more detail on the goals being set for the next, follow-on strategic growth plan.' Public sector net borrowing (excluding public sector banks) was £16.7 billion in February 2023.  This was the highest February total since records began, largely because of spending on energy support schemes. ➡️ https://t.co/eEaU2HoHvy pic.twitter.com/4ILpvlCGgy Government borrowing hit a new record last month as energy bill subsidies hammered the public finances, it was revealed today. The £16.7billion borrowed was more than double February last year, and the highest for the month since comparable figures were first compiled in 1993. However, there was some brighter new as the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said interests costs on the £2.5trillion debt mountain dipped for the first time since April 2021. Zainab Atiyyah, analyst at Third Bridge: '2023 will be very difficult for the UK home improvement sector, particularly for DIY players. The cost-of-living crisis and slowdown in property markets are going to put a big dent in the sector’s growth outlook.  'Kingfisher will be thankful that the trade side is slowing less, thanks to the massive Covid backlog of home renovations still taking place.  'B&Q is more vulnerable to reductions in consumer spending than other players because of its gearing towards DIY sales. Our experts say the best B&Q can do is to hold its market share. The DIY sector is not going to grow massively any time soon. 'Screwfix and Toolstation have a brighter future than B&Q and they should take market share and expand overseas over the next five years.' Senior independent director of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust Justin Dowley will succeed Fiona McBain as chair at the conclusion of the investment company's 2023 annual general body meeting. Mr Dowley said: 'On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Paola for her substantial contributions during her nine years as a Non-Executive Director. 'I would also like to thank Fiona for her 14 years of loyal and exceptional service to the Company, in particular over the last few years (and at the request of her fellow directors) providing essential continuity, reassurance and leadership during the extraordinary circumstances of Covid-19 and through a period of transition on the Board and with the Managers.' The Bank of England stepped in to ease bond market fears yesterday after a furious row erupted over the emergency takeover of Credit Suisse by UBS. Holders of £14billion of convertible bonds were wiped out in the £2.6billion deal, meaning they were left worse off than shareholders.  That prompted the threat of legal action, amid warnings that the move could make it harder for other lenders to raise new funds on debt markets. Home improvement group Kingfisher has posted a 20 per cent fall in profit from a record performance the previous year, and it has forecast a further fall in its new financial year. The group, which owns B&Q and Screwfix in Britain, made an adjusted pre-tax profit of £758million in the year to 31 January, at the top end of guidance of £730-760million and down from the £949million made the previous year. Sales rose 0.7 per cent on a constant currency basis to £13.06billion, with like-for-like sales down 2.1 per cent. Kingfisher said on Tuesday it was comfortable with analysts' average forecast for adjusted pre-tax profit this year of £633million. CEO Thierry Garnier said: "Across all our markets, sales have remained resilient in both DIY and DIFM/trade channels... We have maintained a sharp focus on pricing to deliver value to our customers during this challenging period for household finances, while at the same time managing our cost inflation pressures effectively.  'Strong supply chain management has ensured good product availability and a firm grip on our inventories. 'We continue to execute our strategy at pace and invest in our multiple growth opportunities. We are proud of the progress our teams have made during the year, and since the start of our 'Powered by Kingfisher' strategy.  'Our e-commerce sales have increased by 146% over the last three years and we have enhanced our online proposition with the launch of marketplace offerings in the UK, Spain and Portugal, which are all performing strongly. Across the Group, we are strengthening our proposition for trade customers, building on the success of B&Q's TradePoint and the accelerated expansion of Screwfix.  'Whilst it's still early days for Screwfix's ambitions in France, we are happy with the results of the first few months of operations and planning for up to 25 more store openings this year. We are also building on our leadership position in Poland and the attractive potential of this market by opening seven more Castorama stores in 2023. 'We remain confident in both the growth of our industry, and in our strategic priorities supporting growth ahead of our markets. And we are announcing today our new medium-term financial priorities, focused on growth, cash generation and higher returns to shareholders.' JP Morgan boss Jamie Dimon was last night spearheading efforts to craft a rescue deal for troubled US regional lender First Republic. As shares in First Republic tanked again, the Wall Street veteran held talks with the chief executives of other major banks about how to shore up its battered finances. JP Morgan was one of 11 US banks to deposit a total of £25billion into First Republic at the end of last week in a bid to restore confidence. Britain’s budget deficit was £16.68billion in February, much more than forecasts of £11.4billion and the highest level of net borrowing for the month since records began in 1993, fresh data from the Office for National Statistics shows. The ONS pinned the spike in borrowing on the Government's energy bill support programmes, which cost around £9.3billion, the ONS said, similar to previous months. 'Borrowing is still high because we're determined to support households and businesses with rising prices and are spending about £1,500 per household to pay just under half of people's energy bills this winter,' Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said. Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. MORE HEADLINES This is Money is part of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday & Metro media group