If the association followed the procedures as outlined by your governing documents, the amendment to change 10 lots to eight lots would be legal. Q: First, I want to say thank you for your weekly column. I read it each week and it has been very informative to me. I was elected president of a small homeowners association in Las Vegas. The community is comprised of 10 lots, eight which have homes built on them. The two vacant lots are owned by two separate members of the community. The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions was filed with the Clark County Recorder by the original declarant (builder) February 2008. The association was registered with the Nevada Secretary of State in August of 2010. In the preamble of the Declaration, it states: “The property consists of 10 lots for the residential community.” Article 1 — Definitions, Article 1.2 states: “Articles shall mean Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as such articles may be amended from time to time.” Article 1.3 — Annual Assessment, states: “Assessment shall mean a charge against a particular owner and his lot, representing a portion of the common expense, which are to be levied among all owners and their lots in the property in the manner and proportions provided herein.” Article 1.4 — Assessments. Special, states: “The assessment levied shall be levied among all the owners and their lots in the property in the same proportion as annual assessments.” Article 1.16, Declaration, states: “Declaration shall mean the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions, as it may be amended from time to time.” In February 2012, it was presented and voted on by the members of the association to only levy the annual reserve assessment against the eight lots with existing homes. The amendment to the original declaration was drawn up and recorded with the Clark County Recorder February 12, 2012 by the original president of the HOA. Fast forward to current time. I was elected president of the HOA in January of 2021, superseding the original president, mentioned above, that served from 2012 to 2021. He is not happy that the reserve assessment is levied against eight lots instead of 10. He is saying that the amendment that he originally recorded was illegal and should be reversed. I have read the declaration, which I have been told are our ruling documents, many times and can’t find anything that relates to this action being illegal. I do know that if the homeowners ask to put this issue on our meeting agenda, it could be voted on to either change it or keep it as it is. No one has done this to date. I hope I have explained this so that the chain of events makes sense. I am hoping that you can give your opinion on this. Thank you. A: If the association followed the procedures as outlined by your governing documents, the amendment to change 10 lots to eight lots would be legal. If the former president now states the amendment did not follow the proper procedures and is illegal, the former president would need to provide empirical information to support his claim. As to placing the issue on the next board agenda, the homeowners would need to make this request in writing. Once it is on the agenda, the current board could take no action, especially if the former president cannot provide the information to show the amendment was not done according to your governing documents. Barbara Holland, CPM is an author, educator, expert witness on real estate issues pertaining to management and brokerage. Questions may be sent to holland744o@gmail.com Q: Can a homeowners association in Las Vegas impose fees for parking excess vehicles in the common areas or streets? The best advice, appoint another homeowner to the board and hire a professional licensed community manager to conduct your administrative affairs or hire an association management company. This is a sensitive issue and one that involves constitutional rights. Ultimately, unit owners who object to the invocation at a volunteer organization’s meeting could take this matter to the courts. I would suggest that you contact an attorney to discuss the multiple issues in your email to me. In your case, there is broad language as to the restriction of political events. From your comments, the clubhouse event coordinator made the decision to prevent the showing of the particular movie. Is there a Clubhouse Event Committee? What authority does the coordinator have in your governing documents? They are suing our HOA for $8,000,000. They are suing us for the difference in the cost of materials. If they could have built in 2020 vs. 2024 it would have been less costly to them. You reside in the city of Las Vegas where the pet code allows up to six cats or six dogs without a special permit. An association’s regulations would be superseded by the city code. Unfortunately, your association is not the only one that has a serious insurance issue. Any suggestions would be extreme and would require your legal counsel to view your governing documents. Your CC&Rs supersede any association policy. In this case, the board is considering the elimination of the specific parking policy and reverting back to the CCRs. Under SB 378, an association will no longer be forced to utilize an online payment portal for association payments. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP