Jonas Brothers fans can meet the brother and go to their concert in style with Kevin, Nick and Joe Jonas listing cars on Turo in Vancouver and Montreal. "Our Canadian fans always have a special place in our hearts, as we’ve filmed movies and recorded albums while stationed in Canada," a statement from the Jonas Brothers reads. "That’s why we chose some of our favourite Turo vehicles for fans to experience alongside us on tour." The peer-to-peer car-sharing marketplace will have three cars in Vancouver and three cars in Montreal chosen by the brothers, listed for $300 per day. Additionally, Jonas Brothers fans who book these cars will get the keys from Nick, Joe or Kevin, a will receive a swag bag with "Jonas Brothers memorabilia," and two VIP tickets to a Jonas Brother concert in those cities, including VIP parking. The Jonas Brother have been on a world tour since August, ending June 20, 2024 in Belfast. They previously played a show in Toronto. Upcoming Canadian shows are in Vancouver (Nov. 11), Edmonton (Nov. 14), Winnipeg (Nov. 16), Ottawa (Nov. 29) and Montreal (Dec. 1). The Jonas Brothers hand-picked cars fans can book on Turo in Vancouver and Montreal are: The Rivian R1T is the first-ever electric truck. If you're 30 years old or older, book this truck to meet Kevin. This Tesla fits up to five people and has 400 km range. Book this car if you're at least 25 years old to meet Joe. This Wrangler Rubicon seats five people. You must 25 years old to book this vehicle and meet Nick. You can book this electric Mustang if you're at least 25 years old and you get an opportunity to meet Joe. This coupe has nearly 400 horsepower and seats two people. Meet Nick when you book this car, but you must be at least 25 years old. This orange Jeep Wrangler has four-wheel-drive. Book this car to meet Kevin and go to the Dec. 1 Jonas Brothers concert. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.