Copyright Blue Sky Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved. SAPeople.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » Eastern Cape launches new interactive Virtual Reality tours EASTERN CAPE VR TOURS In a bid to offer potential visitors a glimpse or ‘feel’ for the province before they even visit, the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency have created interactive virtual tourism platforms of unique Eastern Cape experiences, reports Tourism Update. The tours can be accessed by anyone, from anywhere in the world with an […] In a bid to offer potential visitors a glimpse or ‘feel’ for the province before they even visit, the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency have created interactive virtual tourism platforms of unique Eastern Cape experiences, reports Tourism Update. The tours can be accessed by anyone, from anywhere in the world with an internet connection, and if you happen to have a pair of VR goggles and a controller, then the experience can be further enhanced to a full 360 degree immersive and interactive tour. ALSO READ: ‘Sss-trange’: Two-headed SNAKE found in the Eastern Cape Some of the experiences and attractions available on the VR tours are: ALSO READ: Cape Town: Eco-wildlife Big 5 reserve to open near the city These particular attractions and locations were specifically chosen to offer a mix of adventure, nature, marine and historical experiences with a wide geographical spread to be representative of most of the Eastern Cape’s stunning tourism regions, says Tourism Update. Click here to take a VR tour of your very own. This article was originally published by SUNDEEKA MUNGROO. The Monday Daily Lotto jackpot is estimated at R430 000. The Daily Lotto is a lottery game that guarantees a jackpot every day. If you’re visiting beautiful Durban for the first time, here are some really cool facts about this East Coast city South African city. Leon Schreiber of Home Affairs urges South Africans to replace their old green ID books with smart ID cards. First-time traveller woes? Fear not – here are five of the most common concerns that first-time travellers face and how to overcome them… Mboro faced widespread criticism after a video surfaced on social media showing him and his co-accused traumatising his grandchildren. The Afrikaner-only township of Kleinfontein is defending its legal status, stating that it does not receive basic services from the City of Tshwane…  
		  Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will
		  be accepted without an appointment.
		 
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd -
			Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus
			Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park,
			2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
		 
United Kingdom – Blue Sky Publications Ltd –
			Registration Number: 04683692 - Address: C/O Sable Accounting Ltd,
			5th Floor, 18 St. Swithin's Lane, London, England, EC4N 8AD
		 Copyright Blue Sky Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved.