There haven't been any reports or specific incidents in our region yet, but local organizations are still taking precautions. There haven't been any reports or specific incidents in our region yet, but local organizations are still taking precautions. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. There haven't been any reports or specific incidents in our region yet, but local organizations are still taking precautions. Here at home, local groups and organizations are continuing to voice their support on both sides.   On Thursday evening, UVM held a vigil for Israel. It was originally supposed to be held on the campus green but was moved inside the Davis Center for a more secure location.    The executive director for UVM Hillel, Matt Vogel, discussed the concern for safety in a statement made on the group's social media accounts ahead of the university’s vigil: “We are aware of the next two days being a heightened time of awareness for people in Jewish communities, their friends, and allies across the world. It’s no different here on campus, in Burlington, and across Vermont.”While no incidents or specific threats have been reported, both Plattsburgh City police and Burlington police have increased patrol through this week. BPD explained the precaution in a statement provided to NBC5: "We receive information from our local, state, and federal partners, as well as our local community partners to re-evaluate our responses daily.”  Some of those community partners – local synagogues. Though several said they’re not fearful for our region in particular, leaders said they’re still on-alert and have been in communication with their community members. In his statement, Vogel commended UVM security and “area policing teams” for being attentive this week and during tonight’s vigil.  “I have been impressed with UVM's security response and feel reassured that the UVM community’s security is their highest priority,” Vogel said. Meantime at Middlebury College, their campus’ Students for Justice in Palestine released their own statement Wednesday night, which said in part: "We mourn all loss of life and believe this tragedy shows that there can be no peace without justice.” Middlebury SJP added, "We condemn any acts of antisemitism committed on this campus. We also affirm that being pro-Palestinian is not antisemitic.”  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.