Hey, everybody. I'm here with your Friday edition of the Woodstock-Towne Lake Patch newsletter, filled with all the things you need to know about what's going on locally. Including updates on: Imagine you had a realtor who was as attentive and caring to clients as, say, a great physician’s assistant was to patients in the operating room. The analogy might seem like a stretch, until you meet Michale Pena. For much of her career, Michale has worked as a Surgical First Assistant to one of our area’s top orthopedic surgeons. It’s a demanding, high-stress job that requires the highest level of attentiveness, precision and service. Along the way, Michale, who has spent her whole life in the Woodstock area, started helping her medical colleagues solve another problem: figuring out where to live in our area’s tight housing market. These days, Michale is a rising star at RB Realty, offering the same level of attention to detail, responsiveness and service she learned in the operating room to buyers and sellers in our area. Don’t take our word for it. Here’s what a recent client says: “Michale was fantastic from start to finish. She took all the stress off of us. She is a true professional, and we highly recommend her to anyone who is interested in buying or selling a home.” In this challenging market, whether buying or selling, work with a realtor with deep local ties, a demanding and satisfied client base and a surgeon’s attention to detail. Contact Michale Pena today, or call her at 678-848-4351. Want to see your business featured in this spot? Click here to get started. Now, today's weather: A heavy thunderstorm in the evening. High: 88 Low: 71. Here are the top stories in Woodstock-Towne Lake today: Today in Woodstock-Towne Lake: Friday, July 21 From my notebook: More from our sponsors — thanks for supporting local news! Featured events: Now you're in the loop and ready to head out the door on this Friday. I'll catch up with you bright and early tomorrow morning with your next update! — Nina Lightcap Have a news tip or suggestion for an upcoming Woodstock-Towne Lake Patch newsletter? Contact me at Woodstock@Patch.com Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.