Hello Error 37, my old friend. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Diablo 4 preorder beta is now underway, and as you might have expected, it's not going perfectly smoothly. The biggest and most obvious issue for people trying to get into the beta is lengthy queue times: I'm currently staring at an "87 minutes left" message as I try to get in on the action. Some of us at PC Gamer are looking at even longer wait times:  An hour into the beta, Blizzard has reported "an issue affecting our authentication servers," which it said could result in slow or failed login attempts. That might sound familiar: The dreaded Error 37 that plagued the launch of Diablo 3 back in 2012, was also an authentication server problem. It's the one thing about Diablo that genuinely scares us.  Some things, it seems, never change. [#Diablo4] We're currently investigating an issue affecting our authentication servers, which may result in failed or slow login attempts.March 17, 2023 Some people who were able to get into the game have also found themselves being kicked to the curb in the midst of the action. PCG staff writer Morgan Park was shown the door rather abruptly while dropping the hammer on a pack of evil-doers.  Blizzard is maintaining a list of known issues with the Diablo 4 beta on PC on its forums. Most of it is stuff you'd expect—performance isn't what it will be at release, that sort of thing—but one point in particular is worth noting: The queue countdown timer is not 100% accurate and wait times may be longer than indicated. "Please note that the countdown may finish and go beyond the duration listed on the queue timer,"  Blizzard said. "Do NOT leave the queue as this will restart the queue." The beta happening now is open to anyone who pre-ordered Diablo 4, but next weekend's Diablo 4 beta is open to everyone. It's hard to imagine it going more smoothly, and Blizzard doesn't promise that it will, but it does say we'll at least have a better indication of how long the wait is: "We will have more accurate timers in place for Open Beta Weekend," Blizzard said. Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. For now, stay queued if you're queued. Global community development director Adam Fletcher repeated the point on Twitter: Shuffle your feet, lose your seat. Don't leave queues <3March 17, 2023 We'll keep you posted as queue times, and other potential issues, get better or worse. Andy has been gaming on PCs from the very beginning, starting as a youngster with text adventures and primitive action games on a cassette-based TRS80. From there he graduated to the glory days of Sierra Online adventures and Microprose sims, ran a local BBS, learned how to build PCs, and developed a longstanding love of RPGs, immersive sims, and shooters. He began writing videogame news in 2007 for The Escapist and somehow managed to avoid getting fired until 2014, when he joined the storied ranks of PC Gamer. He covers all aspects of the industry, from new game announcements and patch notes to legal disputes, Twitch beefs, esports, and Henry Cavill. Lots of Henry Cavill. It's no wonder Dragon Age: The Veilguard was Steam Deck Verified so quickly⁠: it'll run on a 10-year-old graphics card that was new when Inquisition came out Sorcerers were doing too much magic for Diablo 4's servers to handle, so Blizzard nerfed their most popular build Y'all have to see these gruesome starfish monsters coming in Factorio: Space Age PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 