In a surprising move, popular streaming platform, Twitch, said that users will be allowed to stream content on other platforms simultaneously. The company announced the new policy during the TwitchCon event in Las Vegas on Friday. In their announcement, Twitch stated that virtually “any service” is fair game for simulcasting, with only one notable exception: channels bound by exclusivity agreements with Twitch. According to Twitch, the platform wants to provide more flexibility for streamers while maintaining the “Twitch user experience.” We’ve announced that you can simulcast on ANY live streaming service! Check out our new guidelines and FAQ here: https://t.co/TBjulaqshY#TwitchConVegas 💜 pic.twitter.com/dE4XJEtdAw In a blog post, the company wrote, “As of today, you can now simulcast on any live streaming service. We believe that you should have the freedom to decide which services you want to live stream on.” The company listed some new guidelines for content creators in light of the new policy changes. Firstly, streamers must maintain a minimum level of quality for the Simulcast to ensure a Twitch user’s experience is no less than on other platforms, including engagement with the Twitch community via chat. Secondly, streamers are discouraged from directing their community away from Twitch to their simulcast on other platforms to prioritise the Twitch community and the crucial role of community engagement. Lastly, streamers should refrain from using third-party services that amalgamate activity from other platforms or services on their Twitch stream during the Simulcast, such as merging chat or other features, to ensure that the complete Twitch community experience is preserved throughout the live stream. This shift in policy by Twitch follows the relaxation of cross-streaming restrictions in August, allowing users to simulcast on mobile services like TikTok and Instagram. This move may be a response to top streamers signing deals with competitors like YouTube, aiming to retain creators and enhance revenue streams. Sign up here to get the latest news, updates and special offers delivered directly to your inbox. 