Twitch is finally rolling out a Discovery Feed, after years of complaints from its creators about the lack of growth opportunities for smaller streamers. The company announced the Discovery Feed, along with a slew of other new features, during the weekend opening ceremony at TwitchCon Paris. The new features revolve around supporting short-form video content — although the platform's bread and butter is livestreaming, most creators depend on promoting their content on YouTube Shorts and TikTok to drive viewers to their Twitch channel. The Discovery Feed will be a scrollable vertical feed in the Twitch app that, like TikTok, algorithmically serves users clips from creators' streams even when they aren't live. Unlike TikTok and other short-form video platforms, Twitch made it clear that it isn't prioritizing bite-sized content over streaming. "Because Twitch is all about live, interactive channels, it's not our goal for viewers to spend hours in a Clips feed," the company said in a blog post. "Our investment in Clips is to help viewers discover your channel so they join you and your community when you stream." The Discover Feed will launch in the fall, Twitch said, and until then, the company will run "limited versions" of the feature to test its algorithms. The shift toward short-form video also includes new editing features that will allow creators to natively edit clips from their streams into a vertical format. Twitch will now support direct exports to YouTube and, starting in August, will allow users to directly export clips to TikTok. The clip editor will also be available on mobile. Being able to share content with "minimal effort" is a "win for all streamers," Twitch said. And like nearly every other major social platform, Twitch is launching stories in October. Stories will appear on the Following page of Twitch's mobile app, and creators can set their stories to be publicly viewable or exclusive to paying subscribers. Stories must adhere to Twitch's Community Guidelines and will be moderated by automated "text and image scanning technology." "The stories format is well understood — ephemeral clips, pictures, text updates, polls," Twitch said. "What's exciting about Twitch stories is your ability to reach all your Twitch followers or to share with subscribers only." The company is also shifting its approach to ad breaks, which have been a point of contention between the platform and its users. Although streamers have been able to see countdown timers for ad breaks on their end, many have complained that ads interrupt their content without enough warning. Starting this month, streamers will be able to turn on a chat countdown timer to have more of a heads-up for ad breaks. The countdown timer allows streamers to "snooze or pull ahead," and gives them the chance to "make the right calls" for their community. Under Guest Star, the feature that allows streamers to collaborate with each other, creators will be able to invite guests onto their channels and stream simultaneously. The "streaming together" feature, which will begin rolling out for a "select number of channels" in August, lets up to five creators stream together, while all appearing live on their own channels. The feature will be available to everyone over the next few months, regardless of partner or affiliate status, so that streamers at any level have the opportunity to gain engagement. "Twitch, the service as it was five years ago, would not be able to support our community today, and the Twitch of today will not meet the needs of the Twitch community five years from now," Twitch CEO Dan Clancy said during the TwitchCon Paris opening ceremony. "So we need to keep building." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.