Tomahawk Steakhouse only opened its doors in September 2022 It's more important than ever to stay informed - Get the free CheshireLive newsletter direct to your inbox We have more newsletters It's more important than ever to stay informed - Get the free CheshireLive newsletter direct to your inbox We have more newsletters  A steakhouse restaurant and cocktail bar in Chester city centre has suddenly closed - just six months after opening its doors for the first time.  North East-based restaurant group Tomahawk Steakhouse only launched its Newgate Street venue - formerly occupied by Brazilian eatery Picanha by Fazenda - in September last year.  A notice in the window confirms the restaurant's closure "for the foreseeable future", ad when you contact the venue directly you're greeted with the following message: "The Chester branch is closed until further notice. Our other branches are open as normal. Apologies for any inconvenience caused."  READ MORE: BrewDog owner says Chester venue not going ahead The Chester site is also no longer listed among the Tomahawk venues on its website, although the social media pages remain active. The restaurant posted on Mother's Day, to which one customer replied on Monday: "I’ve just had my table cancelled please can I have some info? I have a voucher we wanted to use?" The chain, which has a number of venues across the country including sites in Stockton Heath, York, Newcastle and London, specialises in Himalayan salt dry-aged steaks. Speaking last year, owner Howard Eggleston said: "2022 has opened out to be a really exciting time for the expansion of the Tomahawk group and we have been inundated with potential sites all over the UK." NEWSLETTER: Get all the latest updates on food, drink and events straight to your inbox by signing up here Read next: Cheshire's adorable miniature railway and 'fairy wood' that children love I visited Chester's creepy hotel room where 'UK's most haunted item' lives We tried Harry Styles' favourite Chinese restaurant in Cheshire Inside Cheshire's oldest pub built over a church crypt and a graveyard 