The Japanese steakhouse in the Florida Panhandle where seven customers were poisoned when someone laced their food with narcotics has announced it will be closing its doors permanently. The owners of embattled Nikko’s Japanese Steakhouse in Pace, Fla., announced the restaurant’s closure in a lengthy Facebook post Friday in which they claimed they were “brutally harassed” by the media and the “power of social media” had been the restaurant’s undoing. “Today, a family owned and operated business is closed, 20 employees are out of work, all because of the power of social media,” the post read in part.  “We are heartbroken, but were unable to sustain the cost to stay open, when it seemed that every day, a local news outlet wanted to find something else to report on. We have had the news at our place of business, called on our phones and have been harassed at our personal homes, it’s all just been too much.” On June 9, seven people who had eaten at the Pace, Fla., restaurant ended up in local hospitals, where testing confirmed all seven had ingested a narcotic, according to the Santa Rosa County Sheriff’s Office. Additionally, an attorney for three of the victims said his clients had each tested positive for methamphetamine after eating at the restaurant. Sheriff’s investigators would ultimately close the investigation, citing a lack of evidence. In the wake of the incident, inspectors with the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation found 31 health violations over the course of two inspections. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.