Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Uber can't stand the heat and wants them out of the kitchen. Uber Eats is purging thousands of virtual brands from its app and bringing in new,... For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to
The Daily Upside newsletter.
It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day. Uber can't stand the heat and wants them out of the kitchen. Uber Eats is purging thousands of virtual brands from its app and bringing in new, stricter rules for online-only brands, the company told The Wall Street Journal. Uber's Head of Dark Kitchens (also a real job title) John Mullenholz told the WSJ that the company is toughening up because the app has become a "Wild West, anything goes kind of situation." Dark kitchens (sometimes called ghost kitchens) came into their own as a business model during the early pandemic when restaurants were forced into delivery-only and takeout leaped into action to satisfy society's existentially urgent need for comfort food. Dark kitchens, which operate out of rented spaces rather than actual restaurant buildings, are banking on the permanence of that trend. Theoretically, virtual brands operate out of brick-and-mortar restaurants and offer exclusive delivery-only items. Some major restaurant chains including IHOP and Denny's use this model. In reality, the Venn diagram of dark kitchens and virtual brands does overlap, and now there's just too many of them. Mullenholz said the app has a problem with lots of virtual brands offering identical menus: It's kind of like the takeout version of cracking down on bots, as some brands appear to be creating multiple virtual restaurants as a way of gaming Uber Eats' search results. To give you an idea of scale, Uber Eats told the WSJ it found 20 brands replicating the menu of a single restaurant in San Francisco. Ghost of CEO Past: The future of the dark kitchen business is crucial to Uber founder and ex-CEO Travis Kalanick, who heads up CloudKitchens. The company sets up restaurateurs in rented warehouse spaces with kitchens, but an Insider report from September 2022 painted a grim picture of the service, with entrepreneurs describing unsanitary conditions and a lack of communications from CloudKitchens. "They absolutely do not care -- they don't respond to emails," one chef said. Ghosted indeed. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.