Vince reacts to the Paris Olympics, Team USA winning the Gold Medal with incredible performances from Steph Curry, LeBron James and Kevin Durant. He gives the biggest key to what Team USA needs to do to win gold again in LA 2028.

Plus, the impressive showing from the USA Women's Team, A'ja Wilson, Kelsey Plum and Kahleah Copper coming up big down the stretch vs France.

Vince also takes some time to talk about his experience as a parent of young athletes and gives some advice for parents dealing with kids playing competitive sports.  How did the NBA become…well, the NBA? On this final episode of NBA DNA, Hannah digs into the magic behind the scenes, featuring interviews with Bob Costas, Willow Bay, Isiah Thomas, and others. Former NBA Entertainment boss Don Sperling walks us through how the league went from tape-delayed games of the 80s to the mega successes of the 90s and beyond. Plus, the incredible legacy of David Stern, the creation of Inside Stuff, and how the league forever changed the landscape for professional athletes and fans.  Hannah heads back to 2015 and one of her favorite assignments to date: covering an up-and-coming Golden State Warriors for ESPN’s Face to Face. Legendary coach Steve Kerr and NBA All-Star Andre Iguodala recap the highs and lows of Golden State’s incredible 2014-2015 season, including the NFL legend that helped Kerr develop his coaching philosophy, the origins of the team’s “death lineup,” and how Steph Curry changed everyone’s opinion on what’s a good shot. On this episode of NBA DNA, Hannah dives into the first dynasty of the new millennium, the Shaq/Kobe Los Angeles Lakers of the early 2000s. Lakers owner and President Jeanie Buss, and seven-time NBA champion Robert Horry join the show to discuss the team’s iconic three-peat, the secret behind Phil Jackson’s success, and what Shaq and Kobe’s teammates wish you knew about their relationship. On this week’s episode of NBA DNA, Hannah revisits the summer of 1997 and the inaugural season of the WNBA. Basketball legends Val Ackerman, Rebecca Lobo, Annie Meyers, and Lisa Lax join the show to talk about that shortened first season: featuring six initial teams, one accidental dynasty, one ulcer, and lots of happy tears. Vince gives his take on the Celtics championship run and if he thinks they can repeat next season. Vince goes deep on Free Agency and where he thinks the top guys like Paul George, OG Anunoby and DeMar DeRozan could possibly fit. Vince also tells the incredible behind the scenes story of his Draft Night Trade with Antawn Jamison, and gets into what he thinks the best situation would be for Bronny James in the Draft and NBA. In this week’s episode of NBA DNA, we dig into the history of women’s pro hoops: from the early days in colleges and church basements to the ill-fated leagues of the 1980s, and finally, the creation of the 1996 Women’s Dream Team. Hannah shares the lesser-known story of the barnstorming tour that led to today's WNBA and sits down with some of the women who made it possible: Rebecca Lobo and former WNBA president Val Ackerman. Sarah and NBA senior writer Michael C. Wright react to the Celtics winning their 18th NBA Championship. They examine Jaylen Brown as MVP, the historical place of this team and look ahead to next season.

NBA Pulse is a production of iHeartPodcasts and the NBA Vince is joined by his close friend, UConn women's basketball legend, 7-time WNBA All-Star and current UGA Assistant Coach Nykesha Sales. They discuss her incredible UConn days, the impact of NIL money on college sports and Caitlin Clark's rookie season in the WNBA. Then Vince and Nykesha talk about the NBA Finals, who is the Celtics best player, who will win the Finals MVP. Plus they get into Dan Hurley, JJ Redick and the Lakers coaching situation. With Michael Jordan retired from the NBA, attention shifts to the other greats: Olajuwon, Ewing, Stockton, Malone, and Barkley — all hungry for a championship. Former Rockets coach Rudy T and seven-time NBA Champion Robert Horry sit down with Hannah to talk about the team’s back-to-back wins, the strangest Game Five ever played, and the surprising origins of The Heart of a Champion. Vince reacts to the Mavericks and Celtics winning and gives his NBA Finals preview with matchup breakdowns, Jason Kidd inside perspective and the emotions of Kyrie returning to Boston for the Finals. Vince compares Kyrie's situation to his return to Toronto for the First Round of the 2007 playoffs. Plus he talks about the latest with the Clippers giving Ty Lue an extension and the Lakers looking likely to hire JJ Redick.  Vince invites two of his closest friends and members of his basketball "Group Chat" Joe Giddens and AYO to join the podcast. Joe played in high school with Vince, and they remember some of their greatest HS moments. AYO is a massive music producer and he tells Vince about the stress of trying to break through in the business. They get into the playoffs, discuss who is the face of the NBA, which player they would build a franchise a around, what is the best duo in the League, and who they think will win the Eastern and Western Conference Finals.