Kyle Lowry was a key piece of the Miami Heat Finals run. But whether by trade or cut, it seems like he won’t be back next season. According to Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald, Kyle Lowry’s time with the Heat is most likely over. Miami is reportedly waiting to try and trade for Damian Lillard and will need Lowry’s expiring contract as part of the deal. Most likely, he would then be bought out by the Portland Trail Blazers if he is indeed traded. This would allow the former All-Star to go into free agency and play for one more team before he retires. Lowry is a player who struggled during the regular season but he did have his moments in the playoffs after Tyler Herro went down with injury.  He was rumored to be traded at the trade deadline due to the fact that he is on an expiring contract. At the end of the season, he ended up only playing off the bench due to the fact that Miami had better point guards to start. According to Jackson, the Heat could also end up waiving and stretching Lowry if the team is unable to find a trade partner. This would bring his cap hit to go down to $9.9 million over the next three years. This would help a lot with their luxury tax concerns and would allow the team to re-sign Gabe Vincent. Jackson mentions that Lowry might end up back with the Toronto Raptors if he is traded and bought out. Another option is the Los Angeles Clippers, who were interested in the point guard at the trade deadline and had trade discussions with the Heat about him. He could end up playing for more years as a player in a Udonis Haslem role for teams. Lowry is one of the model citizens of the NBA. This situation would most likely happen with the Raptors due to his connection with the organization. It seems like Heat will be moving on Lowry but his time in the league is not done yet. Next. The best NBA Draft pick of all time at every slot. dark Check out The Step Back for more news, analysis, opinion and unique basketball coverage. Don’t forget to follow us on Twitter and Instagram and subscribe to our daily email newsletter, The Whiteboard. © 2024 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All betting content is intended for an audience ages 21+. All advice, including picks and predictions, is based on individual commentators’ opinions and not that of Minute Media or its related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only. No one should expect to make money from the picks and predictions discussed on this website. For more information, please read our Legal Disclaimer. Gambling content intended for 21+. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.