Bank of America Securities analyst Julien Dumoulin Smith reiterated a Sell rating on UGI (UGI – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $24.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $27.08. According to TipRanks, Dumoulin Smith is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 5.5% and a 57.52% success rate. Dumoulin Smith covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as NRG Energy, American Water, and Pinnacle West Capital. Currently, the analyst consensus on UGI is a Moderate Sell with an average price target of $31.33. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $42.19  and a one-year low of $25.58. Currently, UGI has an average volume of 2.05M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 15 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of UGI in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. UGI Corp. operates as a holding company, which engages in the distribution, storage, transport, and marketing of energy products and related services. Through its subsidiaries, it operates through the following segments: AmeriGas Propane; UGI International; Midstream and Marketing; and UGI Utilities. The AmeriGas Propane segment consists of the propane distribution business of AmeriGas Partners, L.P. The UGI International segment conducts a liquefied petroleum gas distribution business in the United Kingdom; and centeral, northern, and eastern Europe. The Midstream and Marketing segment refers to the businesses of Energy Services, LLC and its subsidiaries; and the heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, refrigeration, and electrical contracting businesses in the Mid-Atlantic region. The UGI Utilities segment involves the natural gas distribution utility business directly and through its wholly owned subsidiaries UGI Penn Natural Gas, Inc. and and UGI Central Penn Gas, Inc. The company was founded on June 1, 1982 and is headquartered in King of Prussia, PA.  Read More on UGI: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks