Dec. 7—An Olyphant volunteer firefighter reported a fake gas leak in October, one of several false calls reported in the borough in recent weeks, borough police say. Joseph Ogozaly, 23, 316 Jackson St., is charged with one count of false alarms to an agency of public safety, a misdemeanor. Police say he reported a phony gas leak Oct. 30 at 504 Susquehanna Ave. to UGI Utilities, which resulted in the Fire Department responding to check it out. According to a criminal complaint filed by Sgt. Lewis Kline and Patrolman Daniel Volpi, borough Fire Chief Bob Powell and Tyler Tratthen, chief of Excelsior Hose Company 1, quickly identified Ogozaly by his voice as they listened to a recording of the report police obtained from the utility company. Ogozaly is a member of the hose company, according to the police report. Ogozaly denied he made the call when asked by Kline. Ogozaly changed his story several times once Kline told him he was identified from the recording without hesitation. The Oct. 30 call was one of several false reports made between Oct. 27 and Nov. 25, police said. Kline said the case remains under investigation. Anyone who has information should contact police at 570-383-1820. Ogozaly was released on $8,500 unsecured bail. A preliminary hearing is scheduled Dec. 19. Contact the writer: jkohut@timesshamrock.com, 570-348-9100, x5187; @jkohutTT on Twitter. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.