LolaVie has found its first retail partner. The brand, founded in 2021 by Jennifer Aniston, president Amy Sachs and chief executive officer Joel Ronkin, will enter Ulta Beauty’s full distribution. It debuts on Ulta’s website April 30, with the full door rollout ensuing on May 14. The brand currently has five products across cleansing, treatment and styling, all priced between $26 and $32. More from WWD 2023 Oscar Beauty Weird and Wonderful Beauty Trend for Fall 2023 Pastel Makeup Trends at Milan Fashion Week for Fall 2023 Eighteen months post-launch, LolaVie has been measured in its expansion. It debuted with a detangler and has since introduced a hair oil and a leave-in. Its latest additions, a shampoo and conditioner — the bread and butter of many a hair care business — debuted late last year. At that time, executives didn’t comment on sales, but industry sources said sales hit between $15 million and $20 million during the brand’s first year and would surpass the $50 million mark in its second. They did acknowledge, though, that reception has been overwhelmingly positive, hence the retail play. “We celebrated our one-year anniversary with our shampoo and conditioner, which is a very highly in-demand product by a lot of our consumers. That was beautiful timing to celebrate our one year,” Aniston said. “Now that we’re going into Ulta, it’s just going to increase our audience to our product, which couldn’t be better.” Added Sachs, “Everyone wants to have Jen’s hair, but if our products didn’t live up to that, it wouldn’t have mattered. Our products have been the star, and the feedback on the product has been amazing. We have over 3,500 five-star reviews and won 12 beauty awards.” Aniston acknowledged that beauty has seen a slew of celebrity founders and creating products with efficacy, and a business with longevity, was her top goal. “You see actors coming out with beauty products here and there, and we just wanted [LolaVie] to be effective and mean what it said,” she said. “That was our biggest concern and our biggest goal. Just by the feedback, we hit the goal.” As for retail expansion, the brand has received a lot of inquiries about if, when and where it would launch, Ronkin said. “We wanted to make sure our brand was ready, we were ready and we understood our customers. We felt that Ulta Beauty matched our ethos and that their consumer wants what our consumer wants, which are high-quality products that work and it’s not about whose name is on the bottle. It’s what’s in the bottle, and we make products that work.” At Ulta, the hair business is “thriving,” according to Jessica Phillips, the retailer’s vice president of merchandising. “This is a space we know well, and we continue to see growth and innovation as guests engage with products formulated with specific hair goals in mind,” she said in an email. “Through our exclusive retail partnership, we’re demonstrating one of many ways we’re growing our assortment to meet the diverse interests and needs of our guests while also introducing newness they crave and importantly, helping the brand reach new heights.” The business at Ulta overall is strong, having passed $10 billion in revenue for the fiscal year ended Jan. 28, a first for the retail giant. “Our priority is to execute retail with excellence,” Sachs said. “We’ve done it with d-to-c, but we haven’t given our consumers the experience of our product first hand to go touch and feel.” The brand has further products on the horizon, and hasn’t ruled out additional expansion. “More than half of our site traffic has been from outside of the U.S., and it’s a testament to how strong the beginning of the brand [has been],” Ronkin said. “We do ship to the U.K. and Canada right now, but you’ll see us go international to a much greater degree.” Best of WWD Year in Review: Beauty M&A Recap 2021 Beiersdorf to Acquire Chantecaille One Year Post-Acquisition, Seed Phytonutrients Plots Phase Two Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.