The Des Moines Register is honored to announce its 2023 All-Iowa boys basketball award winners for the 2022-23 high school season. This year’s selections include both Player and Coach of the Year. The selections were made based on in-season results (both regular and postseason), Register staff observations and consultations with basketball contacts throughout the state. Pryce Sandfort’s senior season did not end as he had hoped. His ultimate goal was to get Northwest a state championship, and the Wolves got close, losing to Valley in the title game. But even with the second-place finish in the state tournament, Sandfort is proud of what he and his teammates accomplished in just two seasons. “Obviously it wasn't the way we wanted to end it, but we came a long way from that first year,” Sandfort said. “Making the state championship in your second year as a school is pretty impressive, and not just that but we had some of the best statistics in the state.” Sandfort led Waukee Northwest to the Class 4A state championship game and a runner-up finish in his senior season. More: Here's how Iowa men's basketball recruits performed during the 2022-23 season After a breakout junior season, it was hard to tell if Sandfort could sustain the success he’d had in the first year after the Waukee-Northwest split. He did that and then some, averaging 24.9 points per game while shooting 53.6% from the field and 42.7% from 3-point range. On top of that, he added 11 rebounds, 2.8 assists and 2.7 blocks per game. While Sandfort’s stats speak for themselves, he is the first to give all the credit to the rest of the Wolves. “A lot of credit to my teammates and coaches,” Sandfort said. “They knew the spots to put me in and how to give me those positions where I could score easily, looking to find me all the time. But we really had to work.” The Iowa basketball signee is the type of player who made his teammates better and didn’t shy away from taking on a smaller role when one of his other teammates got going. Sandfort also pointed out that he isn’t the only player who made their case for Player of the Year. He acknowledged the success of his teammate, Cade Kelderman, gave credit to crosstown rival Omaha Biliew, Indianola’s Drew Kingery and Burlington’s Merquiche Lewis for their performances this season. When asked to make his case for Player of the Year, Sandfort once again turned the subject back on Northwest as a whole. “The stats will show what they show, but I think it’s more about the team part of it,” Sandfort said. “Our team went to the state title (game) in its second year ever and that accomplishment itself is deserving of this award.” More: Here's how Iowa State men's basketball recruits performed during the 2022-23 season Travis Evans knew that his Bondurant-Farrar squad featured some talented players, but a couple of skilled athletes alone doesn’t always guarantee that the season ends with a state championship. The Bluejays know that better than anyone; Bondurant-Farrar hadn’t been to the state tournament since 2006 and hadn't won a state title since 1997. Evans and his team had one goal this year, and that was to return the championship trophy back to the halls of Bondurant-Farrar High School. The Bluejays did that and then some. “We knew we had a good ball team coming into the year,” Evans said. “Our goal, from day one, was to win a state title. That never wavered, because we thought we were good enough. But to do it and go 26-0, that was not even a part of the conversation.” More: Introducing the Des Moines Register's 2023 All-Iowa girls basketball teams Yes, that’s right. Bondurant-Farrar won the Class 3A state title with an undefeated record. The Bluejays defeated Xavier, 58-55, for the title after outsourcing their opponent, 21-13, in the fourth quarter. And while finishing the season undefeated may have surprised Evans, his team’s comeback in the final frame did not. “If you go back to the first time we played North Polk, we blew a 17-point lead in the fourth quarter,” Evans said. “From that point on, we talked a lot about owning the fourth quarter. So, when we were down (against Xavier) and we cut it to five at the end of the third, which was exactly what we wanted to do. “I just said, ‘The fourth quarter is ours, this is our quarter.’ If you’re gonna win a title, your kids have to step up and make plays, and that’s what they did.” This marked the second state tournament appearance for one of Evans’ teams. He led Indianola to Wells Fargo Arena in 2006 – the last time Bondurant-Farrar made it to state – according to the Iowa High School Athletic Association. More: Meet the All-Iowa girls basketball award winners for the 2022-2023 Iowa high school season Alyssa Hertel is the college sports recruiting reporter for the Des Moines Register. Contact Alyssa at ahertel@dmreg.com or on Twitter @AlyssaHertel. This article originally appeared on Des Moines Register: Pryce Sandfort, Travis Evans win All-Iowa honors in boys basketball Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105.