The PIAA playoffs are underway as teams from all over the state try to win the ultimate prize: a state championship. The boys and girls lacrosse and boys volleyball tournaments began Tuesday, with 10 Courier/Intell teams taking the field and court in the first round. Check out the results and game recaps here: 1-4 Gwynedd Mercy 16,  2-1 Crestwood 13: The Monarchs came out firing against District 3 champion Crestwood, scoring four unanswered goals to start the game. After taking a 10-4 lead into halftime, the Monarchs’ defense held off a furious Crestwood comeback attempt in which Crestwood cut its deficit to 14-12 with under five minutes to go. Keira Cassidy and Ellie Verrill led the way with four goals apiece, while Colleen Mullin scored three times and Audrey Beck contributed two goals. Seven Monarchs scored a goal in the win. The Monarchs will contend with defending state champions Archbishop Carroll in the next round. The Monarchs were ousted from last year’s PIAA playoffs by Carroll, 22-3, in the first round. 12-1 Archbishop Carroll 17, 1-3 Upper Moreland 2: A memorable season that will go down in history for Upper Moreland came to an end against Archbishop Carroll, the defending state champs. The Golden Bears, after winning an SOL American title for the first time since 2001, played in a PIAA state playoff game for the first time in school history. While they will lose senior and leading scorer Reagan Cummins next season, the Golden Bears have a promising future with sophomore Annalise Messina, who is nearing her 200th career goal, and sophomore goalie Addi Hurley. 3-3 Susquehannock 16, 12-1 Lansdale Catholic 4 The Crusaders fell behind early in this one and couldn't recover against a strong Warriors side. Lansdale Catholic, which won its third straight district title last week, had its season end with the loss. 12-1 La Salle 9, 1-5 Garnet Valley 8 The Explorers edged the Jaguars in a thriller in their PIAA opener. The win moved La Salle into Saturday's quarterfinals against the winner of Wednesday's Central York (District Three)/Parkland (District 11) game. 1-6 Pennridge vs. 1-1 Springfield, 7 p.m. at Springfield (Wednesday) First round, Tuesday, June 6 3-2 Exeter 3, 12-1 Lansdale Catholic 0 The Eagles from always powerful District Three were too much for the Crusaders in the opening round of the PIAA tournament. The 3-0 loss ended the season for Lansdale Catholic. 1-1 Dock Mennonite 3, 2-2 Holy Redeemer 0 The Pioneers opened the PIAA tournament in style by thumping the Royals in straight sets. Dock Mennonite, which is ranked No. 1 in the state in Class 2A by the Pennsylvania Volleyball Coaches Association, won by scores of 25-14, 25-11 and 25-21 to advance to Saturday's quarterfinals. Senior outside hitter Anthony Bernardo paced the Pioneers with 11 kills. First round, Tuesday, June 6 3-1 Cumberland Valley 3, 1-3 William Tennent 1 The Panthers, the third-place finisher out of District One, battled the District Three champion Eagles all the way before falling in four sets. After Cumberland Valley took the first set, 25-21, Tennent answered by evening the match at 1-1 with a 25-20 victory in set two. However, the Eagles regrouped and finished off the match 25-21, 25-18 to advance to the PIAA quarterfinals on Saturday. The loss ended the season for Tennent. 12-1 La Salle 3, 1-2 Pennridge 0 The Explorers came out flying and knocked off the Rams in straight sets, avenging a PIAA loss to Pennridge from last season. La Salle, which advances to Saturday's quarterfinals, won by scores of 25-21, 25-14 and 25-23 to capture the first PIAA tournament win in school history. The Rams, whose season ended with the loss, were led by Jude Rotondo with 20 kills and Bryce Ammon with 32 assists. This article originally appeared on Bucks County Courier Times: Results, recaps from first round of PIAA Lacrosse Championships Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.