Tanner Pharma will provide access to Kimozo in all European territories except France. French biopharmaceutical company ORPHELIA Pharma has entered an exclusive agreement with Tanner Pharma Group to manage the supply and distribution of Ped-TMZ, also known as Kimozo (temozolomide 40mg/ml, oral suspension) in European countries. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Kimozo 40mg/ml is a liquid, taste-masked and ready-to-use drinkable formulation of an anti-cancer drug, temozolomide, approved for use in Europe as capsules or as an IV formulation to treat certain brain tumours. It was developed by a partnership between ORPHELIA Pharma’s development team and pharmacists and clinicians of Gustave Roussy Hospital. Tanner Pharma will be responsible for providing access to Kimozo in European countries through a named patient programme, allowing doctors to prescribe investigational or approved drugs to patients before their commercial availability. The programme will be conducted chiefly in countries where Kimozo is already used as investigational medication in the TEMOkids clinical trial, backed by ORPHELIA Pharma. Tanner Pharma will also be responsible for managing all aspects of supply including logistics, national regulatory oversight, healthcare practitioner enquiry management and liaison with national authorities. The deal covers all European territories except France. ORPHELIA Pharma general manager Hugues Bienaymé stated: “Kimozo is currently available in France through an early access programme, and ORPHELIA has already received requests from physicians from other countries. “To meet these demands, ORPHELIA Pharma will use the services of Tanner Pharma, a world-leading pharmaceutical services provider with extensive experience in enabling access to innovative therapies when no other treatment options exist. “With this agreement, our ambition is to make Kimozo available to children in need of a ready-to-use drinkable suspension of temozolomide, anywhere in Europe and with no delay, in strict adherence with local regulations.” Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024