

EQS-News: Heidelberg Pharma AG


 / Key word(s): AGM/EGM





Heidelberg Pharma reports on the results of the Annual General Meeting 2023  







25.05.2023 / 15:17 CET/CEST



The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.
 PRESS RELEASE Heidelberg Pharma reports on the results of the Annual General Meeting 2023  Ladenburg, Germany, 25 May 2023 - Heidelberg Pharma AG (FSE: HPHA) announced that the company's shareholders approved the following proposed resolutions of the management with a large majority (between 96,30 % and 99,99 %) at today's ordinary virtual Annual General Meeting: Attendance (incl. postal votes cast) at the Annual General Meeting 2023 corresponded to 84,24 % of the current capital stock.

For more information on the Annual General Meeting, including the voting results, please visit: https://heidelberg-pharma.com/en/agm About Heidelberg Pharma 
Heidelberg Pharma is an oncology specialist and the first company to develop the toxin Amanitin into cancer therapies using its proprietary ATAC technology and to advance the biological mode of action of the toxin as a novel therapeutic principle. The proprietary technology platform is being applied to develop the company’s own therapeutic ATACs as well as in third-party collaborations. The proprietary lead candidate HDP-101 is a BCMA-ATAC in clinical development for multiple myeloma. Further ATAC candidates are being developed against different targets such as CD37, PSMA or GCC each in the indications non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer or gastrointestinal tumors such as colorectal cancer. Heidelberg Pharma AG is based in Ladenburg, Germany, and is listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange: ISIN DE000A11QVV0 / WKN A11QVV / Symbol HPHA. More information is available at www.heidelberg-pharma.com. ATAC® is a registered trademark of Heidelberg Pharma Research GmbH in the EU and the USA. This communication contains certain forward-looking statements relating to the Company's business, which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "estimates", "believes", "expects", "may", "will" "should" "future", "potential" or similar expressions or by a general discussion of the Company's strategy, plans or intentions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results of operations, financial condition, performance, or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, prospective investors and partners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 
25.05.2023 CET/CEST Dissemination of a Corporate News, transmitted by EQS News - a service of EQS Group AG.The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.The EQS Distribution Services include Regulatory Announcements, Financial/Corporate News and Press Releases.Archive at www.eqs-news.com
 
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.