Marty Silverstone has been promoted to president of global sync for Primary Wave Music where he already serves as a partner and will continue to lead the sync licensing department from the company’s new Los Angeles offices in Beachwood Canyon. After 13 years at Primary Wave, Silverstone assumes his new title after most recently serving as senior vice president and head of sync. He also previously held the roles of senior creative director and vice president and head of film and TV. Silverstone’s focus will be on driving sync strategy and opportunities for the company’s catalogs, as well as its signed songwriters and artists. More from Variety Music Industry Moves: Wiz Khalifa Sells 'Black and Yellow,' Plus Other Catalog Assets, to HarbourView Equity Partners Music Industry Moves: Interscope Geffen Teams With Josh Marshall's Mogul Vision Music Industry Moves: Singer-Songwriter Ilsey Signs With Elektra, Dream Inks With Mercury/ Republic Across his twenty years in music publishing and licensing, Silverstone has had experience securing major placements in advertising and film/TV projects for Nirvana, Rod Stewart, Aerosmith, and Hall & Oates, to name a few. Silverstone’s team at Primary Wave has placed songs in such projects as “Spiderman: Across the Spider-Verse,” “Elvis,” “Stranger Things,” “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” and Apple TV’s “Ted Lasso.” “It’s been very rewarding to see Primary Wave’s growth over the years, and to have our sync department contributing at every turn,” said Silverstone. “I’m proud to continue leading the team, as we focus on developing new creative opportunities for our clients. It’s such an exciting time for our company and our industry.” Primary Wave’s CEO and Founder Larry Mestel commented, “Marty is an invaluable part of the Primary Wave family and has been for over a decade. His vision for how our catalog of music can be reimagined has no bounds. He and his team have brought new life to our iconic and classic songs helping to usher them into the modern era. There’s no one more deserving of this promotion.” + Kobalt has hired Teresa Romo as senior director of creative for Latin America to drive Kobalt’s creative expansion in Mexico. Reporting to Nestor Casonu, president of Latin America, Romo will work based out of Los Angeles. In her most recent role as BMI’s Latin director of creative, Romo was responsible for signing BMI’s Latin songwriters and fostering relationships with the company’s affiliates. She signed and retained top songwriters, including Edgar Barrera, Ana Barbara, Geovani Cabrera, Kuinvi, Alemán, Carla Morrison, Erika Vidrio, Amanda Coronel, Nathan Galante, Roberto Laija, José Esparza, and Javier Rochin, among numerous others. Commented Casonu, “I am overjoyed to welcome Teresa to our team. I have known her for over a decade, having worked with her at EMI/Capitol Latin Records, and I have always recognized her extraordinary abilities to create meaningful connections with others and utilize her creative mindset. The market is in need of someone that not only has a deep understanding of the genre but also the vibrant and fascinating Mexican culture.” “I am delighted to join Kobalt Music, build on the impressive Latin roster we represent, and expand our footprint in the West Coast and my home country of México,” said Romo. “Música Mexicana has reached unfathomable heights thanks to the rich multicultural creative community. I look forward to ushering in legacy writers and the new generation of creators to the Kobalt family. + WME has signed Seedphrase (real name is Daniel Maegaard) for representation. Over the past two years, Seedphrase has grown his career as a DJ while wearing a helmet based on his CryptoPunks NFT — otherwise widely-known as one of the rarest NFTs one could own. He has plans to release music this year. “Signing to WME is a huge opportunity to expand the Seedphrase brand through partnerships in luxury fashion, music and fine art,” said Seedphrase. “With the support of their incredible team, I hope to create deeper connections across multiple industries, and within my growing community, as we push the boundaries of digital identity and modern-day IP usage.” Seedphrase made his debut as a DJ in November 2021 and he has since performed at events alongside Dillon Francis, Steve Aoki and Diplo. Seedphrase was also featured in a Dolce & Gabbana campaign, worked with Louis Vuitton on their latest Web3 offering. Seedphrase is managed by Three Six Zero. + Janelle Genzink’s Volara Management has entered a strategic partnership with independent music management company Red Light Management. The new partnership will allow Genzink’s firm to add resources and support that will benefit her current roster of clients: Sabrina Carpenter, Carmen DeLeon, Mosaic MSC and Riah. “In two short years, Volara has grown to be a competitive, female-forward artist management group,” said Janelle Genzink, founder and CEO of Volara Management. “The success we’ve had alongside our artists positions us for our next season in partnership with Red Light Management. + President and CEO of Position Music Tyler Bacon has signed a new worldwide publishing deal with songwriter and artist Kanner. Managed by Drew Kaklamanos and Matt Galle of Photo Finish Mgmt, as well as Bret Disend of Ozone Entertainment, Kanner has quickly collected songwriting credits on songs for Katy Perry (“Electric”), Royal & the Serpent, Krewella, Siiickbrain, Rebecca Black, Scene Queen, Honey Revenge, Mckenna Grace, and more. She will soon release music with PVRIS, LøLø, Oxymorons, The Lunar Year, and Rain City Drive. “I am beyond excited to be working with the incredible team at Position Music,” said Kanner. “Everyone’s love for the music is contagious and their commitment to their writers speaks for itself – a true family atmosphere. Having watched the continued growth, I can’t wait for the future and to keep creating.” Kanner joins a publishing roster that also includes John “Feldy” Feldmann, Dru “Falconry” DeCaro, Harmony “H-Money” Samuels, Jack LaFrantz, Krupa, No Love for the Middle Child, ¿Téo?, Kyle Reynolds, Kid Bloom, Brandyn Burnette, JV, Sam Tinnesz, and more. UTA has upped Brandi Brammer to the role of senior vice president of global music operations. Brammer, who formerly held the title of vice president of people and business partnerships, will work out of UTA’s Nashville offices. “I’m thrilled to take on this new leadership role during such a pivotal moment in the growth and evolution of UTA Music,” Brammer said in a press release. “This is such an incredible opportunity to foster synergy across so many integral parts of UTA music on a global scale with the most talented people in the business.” Brammer will lead the day-to-day operational work of UTA Music, spanning human resources, legal and business affairs, finance, facilities and technology initiatives. Before joining UTA in 2021, Brammer served as vice president of human resources at WME and also boasts experience working for CAA. She also worked at the Academy of Country Music as director of events. “​​Brandi’s an exceptional leader who has played an integral role in growing our presence in Nashville and beyond. Her deep experience, proven track record and collaborative approach will be an invaluable asset as UTA music continues to expand globally and scale our business on a global stage,” concluded Scott Clayton, UTA partner and co-head of global music. + Hipgnosis Song Management (HSM) has made three new appointments: Danny Bennett joins as executive VP; Sara Lord taps in as executive VP of content creation; and Patrick Joest becomes head of synch. Bennett, Tony Bennett’s son and former manager, will take the reins for global marketing and audience development strategy. He was previously CEO and president of the Verve Label Group. Lord, also a veteran music executive, will be focused on fostering Hipgnosis’ partnerships with production companies to further expand opportunities for the Hipgnosis catalogs in the audio-visual space. She joins from her previous post at Concord Music. Joest, who has been with Hipgnosis since 2021, will handle the company’s global synch marketing and licensing initiatives. He has a specialty in film and TV/synch licensing on both the supervision and rights owners’ side. + Neon16 has signed Albert Hype and Jota Rosa, a pair of producers that together boast hits with Bad Bunny, Shakira, J Balvin, Tainy, Myke Towers and more. The label simultaneously announces the contract extension of Latin Grammy-nominated songwriter Gaby Morales (Wisin y Yandel, Becky G, Dylan Fuentes). “Creative talent development is at the heart of what Neon16 stands for,” said Raul Chirinos, director of A&R for Neon16 Publishing. “Albert, Gaby and Jota’s success is a great example of investing in talent early and working alongside them as they reach their full potential.” Hailing from Miami, Hype’s career took off when his production was featured on 2019’s “Estamos Arriba” by Bad Bunny and Myke Towers, and J Balvin’s “Yo Le Llego.” Later, he re-teamed with Bad Bunnyfor “Hablamos Mañana” in addition to “<3” from his Grammy Award-winning LP, “YHLQMDLG.” Most recently, he co-produced “Copa Vacia” for Shakira and Manuel Turizo and has forthcoming releases for Kali Uchis, Dillon Francis, and more. Rosa’s discography spans cuts for Wisin & Yandel, Bad, Bunny, Mora, J Balvin, Rauw Alejandro, SelenaGomez, and many more. He notably co-produced “Party” and “Tarot” from Bad Bunny’s latest global record-breaking album, “Un Verano Sin Ti,” as well as the recent “Fantasma/AVC” with Tainy & Jhayco. + Artist-manager Heather Kolker has announced the launch of new management firm Dreamshop Management. The company will be owned and led by Kolker, who was previously an agent with Little Big Man and Paradigm, where she was instrumental in launching acts like Tame Impala, MGMT, The Drums, Atlas Genius and Francis and the Lights. Joining Kolker as a day-to-day manager is Megan Manowitz, who has previously worked in booking, tour management, venue operations and creative production. She most recently held the position of project manager at the luxury jewelry and fragrance brand Mondo Mondo. With Dreamshop, Kolker will continue to represent Of Monsters and Men (whom she’s managed for over a decade), Muna (who has been with her since 2016), and the solo projects of Nanna, and producer Naomi MacPherson. Added Kolker, “I am proud and excited to be at a place in my career where establishing my own company is possible. Dreamshop’s goal is to provide the focused, curated support, direction and services that each individual artist needs on their unique journeys to their self-defined successes.” +  Sean “Diddy” Combs has launched Empower Global (EG), a curated e-commerce platform that allows consumers to discover and buy products exclusively created and sold by Black-owned companies. Today’s initial launch unveils over 70 brands but Empower Global says it already has plans in place to showcase over 200 brands by the end of the year. Black-owned brands in beauty, fashion, art and lifestyle are all featured on the platform which is aiming to spotlight “culture and community at its core,” according to the company’s official press release. “My mission has always been to empower Black entrepreneurs and create more opportunities for them to access the resources, tools and support needed to build successful businesses,” said Combs, chairman of Combs Global. “Empower Global will uplift Black entrepreneurs, keep dollars circulating in our community, and make buying Black a lifestyle.”. “Empower Global is a transformative platform that embodies Sean Combs’ unwavering commitment to Black entrepreneurship,” added Tarik Brooks, president of Combs Global. “On behalf of Combs Global, we are thrilled to launch this initiative, which not only showcases the incredible products and talents of Black-owned businesses but also provides a gateway for consumers to support and uplift our community. Through Empower Global, we aim to foster sustainable growth and create lasting opportunities that will leave a positive and enduring impact on the Black economy.” Universal Music Group (UMG) has partnered with Kevin “Chief” Zaruk and Simon Tikhman, co-founders of a leading entertainment and talent management company Core Entertainment (TCE), to launch The Core Records. The new global label venture will sign and develop new artists, working hand-in-hand with UMG’s network. Tikhman and Zaruk founded TCE with Live Nation in 2019 as an independent entertainment collective that specializes in talent management, business and strategic partnerships, and advancements in the music, technology, and lifestyle industries. Additionally, TCE develops film and television projects and works with professional athletes. The Core roster currently boasts Bailey Zimmerman, Nickelback, Nate Smith, Austin Shawn and the pop band Valley, among others. “We love building upon our entrepreneurial culture, and are so pleased to welcome Chief and Simon who have a reputation for identifying some of the industry’s most promising artists,” said Sir Lucan Grainge, Chairman and CEO of UMG. “We look forward to helping them grow their roster and drive global success for their artists.” “Our goal has always been to support artists on a global scale by creating new creative and commercial paths,” commented Tikhman. “We’d like to thank Sir Lucian for believing in our vision and for his commitment to developing and supporting artists and entrepreneurs.” Added Zaruk, “We’re excited for this next evolution in The Core and honored to work with Sir Lucian and the team at UMG to help us continue to guide artists to develop their careers and brands. We’ve had a great time building The Core over the past few years and are excited to create a home for new artists with the incredible resources and support from UMG.” + Stem has partnered with Victory Park Capital (VPC), an investment firm specializing in private credit, to expand its artist advance product. VPC will provide $250 million to Stem so they can disperse artists’ advance checks, which will also give them the option to take advances against previously released albums and songs. “Stem has demonstrated itself to be a premiere destination for artists, whether emerging or established, to grow their careers,” says Milana Lewis, CEO of Stem. “This funding from VPC enables us to solve two major gaps we see artists consistently facing. The first gap is access to capital for those who are not quite yet ready to sell their catalog but want to leverage it for cash. The second is investment in future music for those who are exiting the major label system, have their catalog currently committed, but have the opportunity to become independent for future releases. Solving both of these pain points in a way where the client can set their own terms is incredibly exciting.” Stem specializes in multi-tiered payment models for established acts, artists who are leaving major labels, and independent artists on the rise and other unique situations for artists. Stem has supported such acts as Justine Skye, Brent Faiyaz, Set It Off and more. “Enabling access to capital is a major focal point for us, and we are excited to be partnering with Stem to help meet the financing needs of artists,” said Gordon Watson, Partner at Victory Park Capital. “We share Milana and the rest of the Stem team’s commitment to flexibility for borrowers, and we look forward to supporting the continued growth and success of the advance product.” + Gibson Brands‘ Board of Directors has appointed Cesar Gueikian to the role of President and CEO of the company. Gueikian was named CEO on an interim basis earlier this May after James “JC” Curleigh, who had been president/CEO since November 2018, stepped down. “I am honored and humbled to take on the permanent CEO role! Gibson is a passion project for me. Our board of directors, chaired by Nat Zilkha, has been incredibly supportive over the last five years, giving me an opportunity to merge my biggest passion, which is not just music and guitars, but Gibson guitars with my business background, and I don’t take this for granted” said Gueikian. As a musician, Cesar has performed with and recorded alongside artists like Mana, Kirk Hammett, and Rob Trujillo (Metallica), Rex Brown (Pantera), Richie Faulkner (Judas Priest) and Fito Paez, among numerous others. In celebration of Gueikian’s new post, Slash offered, “I can’t think of a more natural fit for CEO of Gibson than Cesar Gueikian. He’s one of if not the smartest, most passionate Gibson guitar enthusiasts I’ve ever met, and he is a keen businessman; you can’t go wrong.” “Receiving the news of Cesar Gueikian being confirmed as CEO of Gibson is great and exciting for me,” added Fito Paez. “Gibson is a historic brand associated with the DNA of music and instruments for over 130 years. After all this time, instruments remain a key part of our lives. Instruments help to create, unify, and connect; they have a universal language that allows us all to be together. As an Argentine, it is a great honor that Gibson has a great leader who values musicians, and who understands and loves music. He truly understands the significance of guitars, and I am really happy because he is a businessman who perfectly understands the music world. Congratulations Cesar!” + Sony Music Nashville (SMN) has tapped Fred Rubenstein as vice president of digital marketing, effective immediately. Rubenstein will be responsible for overseeing the digital marketing team and leading the strategy, execution and implementation of innovative social media and digital marketing campaigns across the SMN roster. He will report to Jennifer Way, senior VP of marketing, and relocate to Nashville. Way comments, “Fred is a highly respected digital marketing executive who isn’t afraid to break the mold to try something new. He is a natural leader and collaborator, and I’m looking forward to adding his fresh, innovative perspective and broad digital expertise into our marketing strategy as we continue to deliver unique, memorable campaigns that amplify our artists’ voices and their music. Rubenstein was most recently senior manager of creator acquisitions and development for Amazon’s live streaming service Twitch. Prior to that, Rubenstein was a member of digital marketing teams at Elektra Music Group and Roadrunner Records where he spearheaded digital campaigns for Slipknot, Sturgill Simpson, Turnstile, Trivium and more. + Los Angeles-based artist manager Christian Stavros is re-launching Little Operation, bringing with him an artist roster that includes Angel Olsen, Best Coast, Bethany Cosentino, Devendra Banhart, King Tuff, Madi Diaz, and Grammy-nominated songwriter Morgan Nagler. McKenzie Rice will be joining Little Operation to handle day-to-day operations, bringing with her artist management client Jack Van Cleaf who recently wrapped up supporting dates with Noah Kahan, Briston Maroney, and Field Guide and recently signed to Wasserman for touring while working on new music. McKenzie previously worked with Christian at Other Operation, and prior to that was working at the Stable — a publishing joint venture between Kasey Truman and Kobalt. In addition to management, Little Operation will continue to make moves in creative direction and artist development, as well as producing events and content. Projects include producing Big Time, the film that accompanied Angel Olsen’s album of the same name made in partnership with Amazon Music, TreePeople’s 50th Anniversary Benefit Show (featuring Beck, Blake Mills, Devendra Banhart, Courtney Barnett, Van Dyke Parks, and Shannon Lay), the Kitchen Sink Festival benefitting the Hollywood Food Coalition (featuring performances from Jenny Lewis, Devendra Banhart, Beck, Angel Olsen, King Tuff, Hand Habits, Bedouine, and more), and more. + The Los Angeles College of Music (LACM) has named Emmy Award-winning guitarist, educator and audio producer/engineer Dr. Dylan Caligiuri (D.M.A.) as the college’s new guitar department head. Dylan’s credits include work for an eclectic list of artists ranging from the Rat Pack’s Don Rickles to popular music sensations Sia and Bebe Rexha. He received his Doctorate of Musical Arts from the University of Southern California and has over twenty years of experience as a touring guitarist and band leader. In 2016, Dylan began his role as a pre-launch curriculum consultant and on-screen Instructor in the pre-launch of Fender Musical Instrument Corporation’s digital learning app Fender Play where he continues to develop technical course content for self-paced learning, advise internal stakeholders and planned/monitored implantation of technology-based learning assessment tools. + Houston rapper KenTheMan (born Kentavia Miller) has signed with Roc Nation. Ken is gearing up to release new single “I Love a Freak,” produced by Bigg Cuz (Kevin Gates, Slim Thug) alongside Will No Sleep and Avo (Gucci Mane, Kaliii, Sexyy Red), on July 14. With 180 million global streams, 50 million cumulative YouTube plays, 700k monthly Spotify listeners and millions of global streams the rapper, mother and former psychology major is on the cusp of sharing her major label EP. She’s also set take the stage at Rolling Loud Miami on July 23 alongside A$AP Rocky, Offset, Latto, NLE Choppa, Central Cee and Lil Uzi Vert. “When this year hit I had no idea where my career would take me. I never thought in a million years my path would walk me into a Roc Nation office,” said Ken in a press release. “It feels amazing to be here and I feel it’s a perfect home for me. I can’t wait to take over the game with them.” + The Latin Alternative Music Conference kicks off Tuesday at the Intercontinental Hotel Times Square in New York City. Running through July 15, the conference is in its 24th year as one of the leading Latin music conferences in the world. The five-day event includes panels, showcases, art, parties and more with attendees ranging from artists, journalists and industry insiders to fans of music and music business. Best of Variety Final Emmy Predictions: Guest Actress (Drama) - Multiple Women From 'The Last of Us' and 'Succession' Vie for Attention What's Coming to Disney+ in July 2023 What's Coming to Netflix in July 2023 Sign up for Variety’s Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.