Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  When it comes to credit card debt, Generation X may be struggling the most. The average amount owed by people in that cohort is $7,004, according to a new report from New York Life. That compares with $6,785 for baby boomers, $5,928 for millennials and $2,876 for Gen Zers. "I think Gen Xers can be especially squeezed by credit card debt because they're living expensive years right now," said Ted Rossman, senior industry analyst for CreditCards.com. Research from CreditCards.com also shows more members of Gen X (77%) have any type of personal debt compared with other age groups. More from Personal Finance:What it takes to get a near perfect credit scoreUsed cars are fetching $7,100 above 'normal' pricesMore than 1 in 4 checking account holders pay fees "They might be sandwiched between caring for elderly parents and raising their own kids – maybe even putting them through college," Rossman said. The New York Life study, based on a survey conducted in December among 4,410 U.S. adults, defines baby boomers as people ages 59 to 77; Gen Xers, ages 43 to 58; millennials, ages 27 to 42; and Gen Z as age 11 to 26. Credit card balances across all age groups hit $930 billion in the third quarter of 2022, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's latest quarterly report on household debt. That amount was $38 billion more than the previous quarter and $121 billion more than a year earlier, marking the largest yearly jump — 15% — in more than 20 years. And as interest rates have risen — a result of the Federal Reserve trying to rein in high inflation — the cost of carrying credit card debt has become more expensive. The average credit card now charges a record-high 20.16%, Rossman said. What's more, 46% of card holders carry debt from month to month on at least one card, which is up from 39% a year ago. The average credit card debt owed by adults across all ages is $6,321, and the average monthly amount put toward that debt is $430, according to the New York Life study. The length of time it would take to pay off that average balance at that monthly amount depends on the interest rate. At zero percent, it would take 15 months. At 20%, it would take 18 months, and about $1,028 would be going to interest. Those calculations, made using Credit Karma's credit card calculator, also assume no additional credit card debt was incurred while paying off that amount. There are some ways you may be able to pay down your credit card balances faster. For instance, some people approach the debt using the "snowball method," which involves paying off the smallest balance first and then moving on to the next-biggest and so on. It works like this: You pay the minimum on your higher-balance cards to avoid late fees or higher interest charges, then throw as much money as you can at the smallest debt until it's paid off. Then you apply the same strategy to the next-biggest balance. The idea is that erasing balances can be empowering and give you motivation to keep paying all your cards off. If you don't need the positive reinforcement, you can focus on the highest interest rate debt first. In the long run, this "avalanche method" —  from highest rate to lowest — will save you the most on interest charges. Additionally, there are 0% balance transfer cards that you may be able to get, depending on your credit score. The higher your score, the better terms you can get overall. Or, a personal loan could help you consolidate the debt. "These rates go as low as about 7% if you have good credit," Rossman said. You also should consider whether you can reduce spending or increase your income, which could free up some money. "You could take on a side hustle, sell stuff you don't need and/or cut your expenses to come up with more money to throw toward your credit card debt," Rossman said. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by