Siemens is presenting its latest solutions for smart and networked drive technology. Networking entire drive systems, machine and plant builders, as well as end-users, can simulate machines and plants more accurately using digital twins, perform commissioning, reduce downtimes and therefore increase manufacturing productivity.

Analyze MyDrives
With the new version of the Analyze MyDrives MindSphere app, Siemens is offering users new powerful diagram libraries for faster visualization. The new “Pan and Scan” function enables users to specify a precise time-frame for monitoring. The new version also features an improved e-mail notification service, which is based upon a simple IFTTT control mechanism. In addition, users can freely configure trend analytics—for example, for time series and scatter diagrams to support even more powerful bi-variate graphical correlation analysis. A new dashboard provides key status information for all relevant drive components at a glance. If necessary, users have an overview of the integrated variables per drive train component, including the last transmitted value, time of last update, unit of measurement and link to the diagram used. Diagrams can be exported with a single click and statistical aggregate functions are integrated into all diagram types.

New functions for SINAMICS Connect 300
With SINAMICS Connect 300, Siemens is introducing a simple plug-and-play solution that integrates SINAMICS low-voltage drives into IT infrastructure, and it supports cloud-based digitalization.
 
One new feature is expert mode, where, upon request, users can individually differentiate the parameters of the SINAMICS drive and stored in MindSphere, the open, cloud-based IoT operating system. The new SINAMICS Connect 300 device includes comprehensive commissioning and service management with an integrated web-server, which simplifies configuration even with very specific requirements. The webserver enables comprehensive management of the device, e.g., CA certificates, license management and firmware updates. On the webserver’s homepage, users can also view MindSphere connection status and immediately check cloud connectivity. To ensure that data is not lost in the event of network failures, a data buffer of up to 500 MB is provided.
 
For secure data transfer, the transfer protocol has been changed from HTTP to HTTPS and the security guidelines have been updated to prevent unauthorized manipulation of the device. SINAMICS Connect 300 adds to the existing standard MindConnect portfolio and gives users the opportunity to connect SINAMICS drives that do not communicate via Profinet directly to MindSphere. In addition, SINAMICS Connect 300 enables the connection of SINAMICS drives in existing plants without the need for expensive and time-consuming hardware or software modifications. SINAMICS Connect 300 does not use a proprietary data model, which means that uploaded drive data can be provided to all MindSphere apps without issue.
 Siemens is presenting its latest solutions for smart and networked drive technology. Networking entire drive systems, machine and plant builders, as well as end-users, can simulate machines and plants more accurately using digital twins, perform commissioning, reduce downtimes and therefore increase manufacturing productivity. With the new version of the Analyze MyDrives MindSphere app, Siemens is offering users new powerful diagram libraries for faster visualization. The new “Pan and Scan” function enables users to specify a precise time-frame for monitoring. The new version also features an improved e-mail notification service, which is based upon a simple IFTTT control mechanism. In addition, users can freely configure trend analytics—for example, for time series and scatter diagrams to support even more powerful bi-variate graphical correlation analysis. A new dashboard provides key status information for all relevant drive components at a glance. If necessary, users have an overview of the integrated variables per drive train component, including the last transmitted value, time of last update, unit of measurement and link to the diagram used. Diagrams can be exported with a single click and statistical aggregate functions are integrated into all diagram types. With SINAMICS Connect 300, Siemens is introducing a simple plug-and-play solution that integrates SINAMICS low-voltage drives into IT infrastructure, and it supports cloud-based digitalization.
 
One new feature is expert mode, where, upon request, users can individually differentiate the parameters of the SINAMICS drive and stored in MindSphere, the open, cloud-based IoT operating system. The new SINAMICS Connect 300 device includes comprehensive commissioning and service management with an integrated web-server, which simplifies configuration even with very specific requirements. The webserver enables comprehensive management of the device, e.g., CA certificates, license management and firmware updates. On the webserver’s homepage, users can also view MindSphere connection status and immediately check cloud connectivity. To ensure that data is not lost in the event of network failures, a data buffer of up to 500 MB is provided.
 
For secure data transfer, the transfer protocol has been changed from HTTP to HTTPS and the security guidelines have been updated to prevent unauthorized manipulation of the device. SINAMICS Connect 300 adds to the existing standard MindConnect portfolio and gives users the opportunity to connect SINAMICS drives that do not communicate via Profinet directly to MindSphere. In addition, SINAMICS Connect 300 enables the connection of SINAMICS drives in existing plants without the need for expensive and time-consuming hardware or software modifications. SINAMICS Connect 300 does not use a proprietary data model, which means that uploaded drive data can be provided to all MindSphere apps without issue. 
 Go to Siemens website

 ©2024 Automation.com, a subsidiary of ISA