Sawing logs all night? Snoring comes from a variety of factors like side sleeping and nasal congestion, but these handy devices can help. Gear-obsessed editors choose every product we review. We may earn commission if you buy from a link. Why Trust Us? Snoring can be more than just an annoying sleep habit or a result of an unsupportive pillow. That dull (or noisy) rumble happens when the tissues at the back of your throat vibrate as muscles loosen and contract during your sleep cycle.  You may be more prone to snoring due to the physical anatomy of your throat, but it can also be exacerbated by a variety of factors like diet, lifestyle, and alcohol consumption. If you’ve tried everything but your snoring rages on (likely disturbing your sleep as much as your roommates’, partners’, and family members’), an anti-snoring device might be able to help you sleep peacefully once and for all. Anti-snoring devices aren’t a one-size-fits-all, and snoring products are often designed to target specific sleep issues. These tips can help you find the gadget that is right for you.  If you know that your snoring is caused by blocked or narrow nasal passages, which you can find out by visiting an ENT if you aren’t sure, a nose strip with adhesive can help open up your airways by creating tension that pulls your passages more open. Nasal dilators are also a good pick for this problem, helping prevent congestion throughout the night—they’re inserted into your nostrils to allow for undisrupted airflow. You may also tend to snore depending on your sleep position, like resting on your back, or if you usually sleep with your mouth open. A mouthpiece or pillow may help promote better breathing and cut down on your snoring.  Surprisingly, not all anti-snoring devices target the mouth or nose directly—and some of these devices are uncomfortable or tough to get used to (or you might remove them in your sleep!). A wearable anti-snoring device, like a wristband, focuses on your muscles when snoring is detected so that your body responds and adjusts accordingly without waking you up. When shopping for an anti-snoring device, look at the shape and fit. Some devices allow for a more custom fit, like a nasal dilator made with flexible silicone material. A mouthpiece should have a snug fit so there aren’t any air leakages. Anti-snoring gear that requires charging or a battery to run may be too loud and disruptive if you are a light sleeper. If you plan to go the electric route, depending on the device, it may produce sound throughout the night as it monitors your snoring. We considered several anti-snoring devices based on a range of purposes, ease of use, and type of device. Some target specific ailments like blocked nasal passages or mouth breathing. Some of our recommendations can simply go straight into your nostrils, while others require more intensive setup. We chose devices that are electric and non-electric, so you can find one that best fits your sleep style. Here are the best anti-snoring devices to help you get an uninterrupted eight hours, every single night. If you suffer from congestion or blocked nostrils that cause you to breathe through your mouth while you sleep, nasal dilators can help increase airflow through your nose and stop snoring.  The Mute dilator is made from pliable plastic that’s soft and flexible, and the dilators hold your airways open from the internal wall of your nose, which puts less pressure on your septum.  They are shaped into a loop, and the paddles have notches on them so you can adjust each dilator independently in case there are internal differences in your nostrils (which is the case for many of us).  The dilators come in small, medium, and large sizes, but you can also start with a trial pack that has all three to find your best fit. Snoring can happen when the tissues in your throat relax and air passes through, causing the tissues to vibrate. The ZQuiet is a mouthpiece that angles your jaw forward to help open up your airways and prevent snoring.  Something to keep in mind is that the mouthpiece does not mold or shape to your teeth, which can be uncomfortable. You can begin with a starter kit, which has two different sizes so you can find the mouthpiece that fits the best. Internal anti-snoring devices might be a little uncomfortable to wear, but a nasal strip is a tried-and-true alternative that doesn’t require any insertion. Designed for people who suffer from congestion due to allergies, these flexible bands have an adhesive strip on the back that can shape to your nose for a snug fit to create tensile strength to help open up your nasal passageways. Note that the adhesive does not stick as well to wet, oily, or moisturized skin, so be sure to wash and dry your nose before applying. You can use warm water to remove after use.  The Smart Nora is an anti-snoring system that uses a pillow insert and a monitoring device to cut back on snoring. The Pebble is a wired controller that sits on your nightstand, and it listens for snoring throughout the night. When snoring is detected, the padded pillow insert inflates and deflates to gently move your head and stimulate your throat muscles for a more natural breathing pattern. This makes it a great pick for folks who snore due to side- or stomach-sleeping. The silent air pump comes with it, with a cord long enough to store underneath your bed for convenience. Amber is the Digital Content Producer for Popular Mechanics, Runner's World and Bicycling, where she covers a range of tasks for the commerce team. She also writes fashion and beauty content for Best Products. Her work has been featured across all of the Enthusiast Group sites. In her free time you can likely find her watching horror movies, reading a good thriller book, or listening to a comedy podcast. The 7 Best Tool Belts The 7 Best Food Vacuum Sealers The 7 Best Lawn Mower Covers Save 40% on Greenworks Leaf Blowers at Amazon The 7 Best Christmas Tree Stands  The 5 Best Water Filters The 5 Best Rubber Boots We Tested and Recommend The 9 Best Cordless Leaf Blowers for Yard Cleanups The 7 Best Upright Freezers  The Best Car Waxes to Protect Your Paint Job Our Favorite Samsung TV Is $800+ off at Walmart The 8 Best Leaf Rakes For Fall Cleanup A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.