© 2023 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights reserved. Looking for Forbes.com content? Search Forbes.com June 12, 2023, 8:30 a.m. - 6:30 p.m. ET					 - Pier Sixty - New York, NY
 Titans of Investing: A Market Atlas For A New Era
 
After years of turbulence and a shattered global economy, investor sentiment seems to be moderating as the world braces for a softer landing than expected. To be sure, geopolitical tensions continue and efforts to rebuild have been stymied by inflationary pressures, protectionist policies, and recession fears. Still, opportunities abound in this new economy for those who have the conviction to make contrarian bets before the markets settle. Amidst this shifting economic backdrop, the 2023 Forbes Iconoclast Summit will convene the world’s most iconic visionaries, financial titans, pioneering technologists, and key executives for high-level conversations on the most critical issues impacting our economy and markets today.
 
Register to attend below! If you have any questions, please email iconoclast@forbes.com.
 Titans of Investing: A Market Atlas For A New Era   After years of turbulence and a shattered global economy, investor sentiment seems to be moderating as the world braces for a softer landing than expected. To be sure, geopolitical tensions continue and efforts to rebuild have been stymied by inflationary pressures, protectionist policies, and recession fears. Still, opportunities abound in this new economy for those who have the conviction to make contrarian bets before the markets settle. Amidst this shifting economic backdrop, the 2023 Forbes Iconoclast Summit will convene the world’s most iconic visionaries, financial titans, pioneering technologists, and key executives for high-level conversations on the most critical issues impacting our economy and markets today.   Register to attend below! If you have any questions, please email iconoclast@forbes.com. Co-CEO & President  Ariel Investments Co-CEO & President  Ariel Investments As Co-CEO, Mellody is responsible for management, strategic planning and growth for all areas of Ariel Investments outside of research and portfolio management. Additionally, she serves as Chairman of the Board of Ariel’s publicly traded mutual funds. Prior to being named Co-CEO, Mellody spent nearly two decades as Ariel’s President. She has been with the firm since she earned her AB from Princeton University’s School of International Relations and Public Policy. Mellody currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Starbucks Corporation and a director of JPMorgan Chase. She previously served as Chairman of DreamWorks Animation, helping to facilitate the company’s sale. Mellody was also a long-standing board member of the Estée Lauder Companies and is deeply committed to a number of philanthropic endeavors. Founder, CIO Mentor & Member of the Board Bridgewater Associates Founder, CIO Mentor & Member of the Board Bridgewater Associates Ray Dalio is the founder, CIO Mentor and member of the board of Bridgewater Associates, a global macroeconomic investment management firm and the largest hedge fund in the world. Ray started Bridgewater out of his two-bedroom apartment in New York in 1975 and under his guidance, has grown the firm into the 5th most important company in the U.S., according to Fortune Magazine, and has led it to make more money for clients than any other hedge fund since its inception, according to LCH Investments. 

Ray has been a global macro investor for more than 50 years, which has required him to gain a deep understanding of global economics and investing. Under his guidance, Bridgewater has introduced several industry-changing approaches to investing, including risk parity, the separation of alpha and beta, and currency overlay strategies. For his innovative work as well as being a valued advisor to many global policy makers, Ray has also been called the “Steve Jobs of Investing” by CIO Magazine and Wired Magazine, and has been named one of TIME Magazine’s 100 Most Influential People.  

Ray is also a long-running New York Times best-selling author as a result of his popular books Principles: Life and Work (released in 2017) and Principles for Dealing with the Changing World Order (released in 2021). Principles outlines Ray’s principles for work and life, the foundation of Bridgewater’s distinctive culture that strives to create “meaningful work and meaningful relationships through radical truth and radical transparency;” Ray also attributes them as the key to his and Bridgewater’s success. As a result of the book’s popularity, Ray distilled it into the engaging and easy-to-read illustrated novel for readers of all ages – Principles for Success. Changing World Order, comprises Ray’s multi-year, in-depth study of the last 500 years of history to determine what causes empires to succeed and fail as world powers. In 2018, he and Bridgewater co-published Principles for Navigating Big Debt Crises, the first public dissemination of their research on these economic events, which enabled them to anticipate the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. 

Ray graduated with a B.S. in Finance from C.W. Post College in 1971 and holds an MBA degree from Harvard Business School circa 1973. He has been married to his wife, Barbara, for more than 40 years and is an active philanthropist with a special interest in ocean exploration, microfinance and equal educational opportunities for underprivileged youth. For his work in this space, he has been named one of the 50 largest philanthropists in the U.S., according to Forbes Magazine.   Seven-Time Formula 1 World Champion Seven-Time Formula 1 World Champion  Sir Lewis Hamilton is a Seven-Time Formula One™ World Champion racing for Mercedes-AMG Petronas Formula One Team and considered the most successful driver in the sport’s history, having broken the record for race wins.

Lewis continues to defy barriers within and outside of Formula 1 as the first and only Black, working-class driver. After seeing very little change in representation over the prior two decades, Lewis launched his research project The Hamilton Commission in 2020, to identify barriers and opportunities for diversity. A year later, he launched his foundation, Mission 44, which aims to reimagine the future and transform the lives of young people facing disadvantage and discrimination. He recently pledged £20m to push this mission forward, and continues to use his platform to promote diversity and positive change across industries.

In addition to his social impact work, Lewis has a keen eye for strategic investments and exciting projects. He has proven himself to be an engaged leader and dedicated partner to various organisations, and is passionate about Black ownership and equity in business, STEM, and beyond. Founder & Head of Private Equity Auctus Fora Founder & Head of Private Equity Auctus Fora Princess Jahnavi Kumari Mewar, a senior member of India’s most powerful royal family, leads both her father’s and her husband’s family offices and is the founder and head of PE co-investment platform for other family offices, Auctus Fora. She leads day-to-day operations for all three entities. Co-Owner, CEO and Team Principal Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Co-Owner, CEO and Team Principal Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Toto Wolff is the Co-Owner, CEO, and Team Principal of the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team. A former racing driver turned investor, Toto started his career by founding a tech-focused venture capital firm in Austria. He entered F1 with an ownership stake in the Williams F1 Team in 2009, before acquiring a 30% stake (now 33%) in the Mercedes-Benz works team in 2013. Toto has since led the team, featuring the most successful F1 driver of all-time, Lewis Hamilton, to unprecedented heights, winning eight Constructor World Championships and seven Driver World Championships.

Toto’s high-performance leadership philosophy was the subject of a Harvard Business School Case Study in 2022, “Number One in Formula 1.” He regularly visits Harvard to work with MBA students and teach the case, leading discussions on high-performance leadership and organizational culture. Toto is an Associate Fellow at Oxford University’s Saïd Business School where he imparts lessons on entrepreneurship and innovation, as well holding an Honorary Doctorate from Cranfield University.  Chairman, CEO & Member of the Board The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc Chairman, CEO & Member of the Board The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc David is chairman and chief executive officer and a member of the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Previously, he was president and chief operating officer and prior to that, he served as co-head of the Investment Banking Division from 2006 to 2016. Before that, David was global head of the Financing Group, which includes all capital markets and derivative products for the firm’s corporate clients. He joined Goldman Sachs as a partner in 1999.

Prior to joining the firm, David held leadership roles at Irving Trust Company, Drexel Burnham and Bear Stearns.

David is chairman of the Board of Trustees of Hamilton College and serves on the board of The Robin Hood Foundation. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of New York-Presbyterian Hospital.

David earned a BA in Political Science from Hamilton College. CEO J.P. Morgan Asset & Wealth Management CEO J.P. Morgan Asset & Wealth Management Mary Callahan Erdoes is Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase's Asset & Wealth Management line of business – one of the largest and most respected investment managers and private banks in the world, with more than $5 trillion in client assets and a 200-year-old legacy as a trusted fiduciary to corporations, governments, institutions and individuals.  Since joining the firm over 25 years ago, Erdoes has held senior roles across Asset & Wealth Management before becoming its CEO in 2009 and joining the JPMorgan Chase Operating Committee, the firm’s most senior management team.

Erdoes serves on the boards of the U.S.-China Business Council and the Robin Hood Foundation of New York City. She is also a board member of Georgetown University, where she earned her Mathematics undergraduate degree, and serves on the Global Advisory Council of Harvard University, where she received her MBA.

Erdoes and her husband, Philip, reside in New York City and have three daughters. President & COO Blackstone President & COO Blackstone Jonathan (“Jon”) Gray is President and Chief Operating Officer of Blackstone, and is a member of Blackstone’s Board of Directors. He sits on its Management Committee and most of its investment committees. Mr. Gray previously served as the firm’s Global Head of Real Estate, which he helped to build into the largest real estate platform in the world. He joined Blackstone in 1992.

Mr. Gray currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Hilton Worldwide. He also serves on the board of Corebridge and Harlem Village Academies. Mr. Gray and his wife, Mindy, established the Basser Center for BRCA at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine focused on the prevention and treatment of BRCA related cancers. They also established NYC Kids RISE in partnership with the City of New York to accelerate college savings for low income children.

Mr. Gray received a BS in Economics from the Wharton School, as well as a BA in English from the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. Member United Kingdom's House of Lords and Co-Principal of Versaca, a family office Member United Kingdom's House of Lords and Co-Principal of Versaca, a family office Baroness Moyo of Knightsbridge is a member of the United Kingdom’s House of Lords. She is a principal of Versaca Investments - a family office focused on growth investing globally. She also serves on a number of global corporate boards including: Chevron and Conde Nast, as well as, the Oxford University Endowment investment committee.

Her areas of interest are in capital allocation, risk, and ESG matters. Dambisa is the author of five bestselling books on the global macroeconomy and geopolitics. She holds a PhD in economics from Oxford University and a Master’s degree from Harvard University. She is a member of The American Academy of Arts and Sciences.  President and Head of Private Equity, Americas GIC President and Head of Private Equity, Americas GIC Mr. Wilmes is the President, Americas, at GIC. He is also the Head of Private Equity, Americas, and of GIC’s San Francisco office. Before joining the firm, Mr. Wilmes was a Director at Friedman Fleischer & Lowe and at Centre Partners. Mr. Wilmes began his career in the Merchant Banking Division of Morgan Stanley & Co.

Mr. Wilmes has served as a Director of several businesses, including UKG, Ultimate Software, Ancestry, Multiplan, Kronos, HUB International, PetSmart / Chewy, and American Seafoods.

Mr. Wilmes holds a B.A., magna cum laude, in Economics from Williams College. Pro Football Hall of Famer, Broadcaster, and Entrepreneur Pro Football Hall of Famer, Broadcaster, and Entrepreneur  Emmy winner, Super Bowl Champion and Peabody award winning journalist Michael Strahan currently co-anchors ABC’s “Good Morning America,” serves as an analyst for “Fox NFL Sunday,” and hosts ABC’s primetime game show favorite “$100,000 Pyramid.” Strahan also headlined the Thursday Night Football Pregame Show live on the Fox Broadcast Network. Strahan is the co-founder of SMAC Entertainment, a multi-dimensional talent management, music, branding and production company which has created a major presence in the sports and entertainment arena. For four years, Strahan co-hosted the hit talk show “LIVE with Kelly and Michael,” and prior to joining the ranks of the top sports broadcasters in the country, Strahan had a spectacular NFL career that resulted in him being named to the 2014 Pro Football Hall of Fame class. In 2015, Strahan launched his lifestyle brand, Michael StrahanTM , a men’s and boys’ apparel line that includes everything from tailored, sportswear, denim, accessories, underwear and beyond. Going back to Strahan’s football roots, in 2020, the line expanded with MSX by MICHAEL STRAHAN for NFL, a men’s and women’s NFL licensed apparel line. In 2022, the brand entered the CPG space with Michael Strahan Daily Defense, a skin and shave collection for men of all ages and ethnicities. The Michael Strahan lifestyle brand continues to expand and is available at JCPenney’s, Men’s Wearhouse, CVS, Jos A Bank, HSN and QVC and more retailers nationwide. Strahan released his best-selling book, “Wake Up Happy: The Dream Big, Win Big Guide to Transforming Your Life,” which includes personal stories and motivational advice. Dedicated to many charitable works, Strahan donates his hands and heart to charities including St. Jude’s. CEO Man Group CEO Man Group Robyn Grew is CEO of the LSE-listed active investment management firm Man Group, and an executive director on the Man Group Board.

The global firm manages USD 167.5 billion (as at 31 December 2023) across a broad range of alternative and long-only portfolio solutions.

As CEO, Robyn leads the firm’s Executive Committee, which is focused on ensuring the firm continues to evolve to meet the needs of its clients and the millions of pensioners and savers they represent.

Robyn was previously President of Man Group, based in the US, and has a strong track record of demonstrating strategic vision and leadership. Since joining Man Group, via GLG, in 2010, Robyn has managed the solutions business, overseen trading and execution as well as acted as Group COO, Head of ESG and General Counsel. She has been integral to the firm’s global strategic expansion and oversaw the reorganisation of Man Group’s corporate structure in 2019 to better align it with the global footprint of the business. She has also spearheaded the firm’s diversity programme, Drive.

Before joining the firm in 2009, Robyn held senior positions at investment banks Barclays Capital and Lehman Brothers as well as at LIFFE, the largest futures and options exchange in London – since renamed ICE Futures Europe. These roles saw her based for periods of time in New York, London and Tokyo giving her broad, global experience.

Robyn is a qualified barrister and has worked in the investment industry since 1994. CEO Brookfield CEO Brookfield Bruce Flatt is Chief Executive Officer of Brookfield, a leading global alternative asset manager with approximately $800 billion in assets under management. Mr. Flatt joined Brookfield in 1990 and became CEO in 2002. Under his leadership, Brookfield has developed a global operating presence in more than 30 countries. Prior to his current role, Mr. Flatt ran Brookfield’s real estate and investment operations and has served on numerous public company boards over the past two decades. CIO CPP Investments CIO CPP Investments As CPP Investments’ Chief Investment Officer, Ed works closely with the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Investment Department leaders to strengthen the organization’s investment governance with the aim of generating greater performance gains.

He joined CPP Investments in 2008, initially heading the Global Capital Markets group during the financial crisis. He subsequently headed the Global Corporate Securities group and then the Global Tactical Asset Allocation team, all within the Public Market Investments department. Ed served as Chief Investment Strategist and Head of Total Portfolio Management from 2014 to 2017 and was most recently the Global Head of Real Assets.

With over 25 years of investment experience, Ed previously held senior positions at Fortress Management Group, Deutsche Bank Canada and TD Securities.

Ed holds a BS (Hons) in Theoretical Physics from Queen’s University and a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree from York University’s Osgoode Hall Law School. Managing Partner SoftBank Investment Advisers Managing Partner SoftBank Investment Advisers Lydia Jett is a Managing Partner at SoftBank Investment Advisers (SBIA) where she helps lead the firm’s US Consumer Internet and Global eCommerce Sectors. Lydia has led and represents Softbank on the Board of Directors of the firm’s global eCommerce investments including Coupang (NYSE: CPNG), Fanatics, Flipkart and GoTo. Additionally, Lydia has led and represents Softbank on the Board of Directors of Andela, Block, Candy, Embark, Klook, LTK, Misfits Market, mmhmm, Pacaso, Papa, Perch, The Sandbox. Prior to SBIA, Lydia was a senior member of the investment team at SoftBank Group Corp International where she led SBGI’s investments in Guardant Health (Nasdaq: GH), 10X Genomics (Nasdaq: TXG) and Fetch Robotics (sale to Zebra) and represented Softbank on the board of inMobi. Previously, Lydia was a Vice President at M/C Partners, a growth equity firm, and an Associate at Goldman Sachs in the Principal Investment Area where she invested across media and technology sectors. She started her career at JPMorgan. In addition, she is an independent board member of Ozon (Nasdaq: Ozon) and on the Venture Advisory Board of Silicon Valley Bank. Lydia is a graduate of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, the London School of Economics and Smith College. Founder, Chairman & CEO LionTree Founder, Chairman & CEO LionTree Aryeh B. Bourkoff is the founder, Chairman, and CEO of LionTree, an independent merchant bank advising and investing in the companies and entrepreneurs leading the evolution of the global digital economy. Through its M&A advisory, capital markets, and asset management businesses, LionTree works in partnership with CEOs, creators, and investors to build and shape industries over the long-term, leveraging its thematic advice, strategic insights, capital resources, and global connectivity.

Aryeh serves on the boards of Yahoo and Carnegie Hall and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Board of Trustees of both The Paley Center for Media and the Royal Academy of Arts. Prior to founding LionTree, Aryeh spent 13 years at UBS, closing his tenure as Vice Chairman and Head of Americas Investment Banking. Prior to UBS, Aryeh was a high‐yield research analyst at CIBC World Markets and Smith Barney and ranked as the number one cable and satellite analyst by Institutional Investor for seven consecutive years. Cofounder, Chairman & CEO Avenue Capital Group Cofounder, Chairman & CEO Avenue Capital Group Mr. Lasry co-founded Avenue Capital Group in 1995, and distressed investing has been the focus of his professional career for over 38 years. Prior to forming Amroc Investments, LLC (“Amroc”) as an independent entity, Mr. Lasry managed capital for Amroc Investments, L.P., an investment fund affiliated with the Robert M. Bass Group. Prior to that, Mr. Lasry was Co–Director of the Bankruptcy and Corporate Reorganization Department at Cowen & Company. Prior to Cowen, he was the Director of the Private Debt Department at Smith Vasiliou Management Company, the firm where he first became involved in the distressed debt markets. He spent the prior year practicing law at Angel & Frankel where he focused on bankruptcies. Mr. Lasry also clerked for the Honorable Edward Ryan, former Chief Bankruptcy Judge for the Southern District of New York.

Mr. Lasry is currently a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and he has served and will continue to serve on various other boards of advisors/directors of both for-profit and not-for-profit private and public companies.

Mr. Lasry graduated with a B.A. in History from Clark University (1981) and a J.D. from New York Law School (1984). Cofounder & Partner M13 Cofounder & Partner M13 Carter Reum is the Co-founder and Partner of M13. He and his brother Courtney founded M13 in 2016, and today the firm manages three top decile funds with more than $1B AUM in early stage technology that powers the future of work, health, commerce, and money. M13 has seeded seven unicorns; notable portfolio companies include Cabify, Cue, Daily Harvest, Matterport, Ring, Rothy’s, and Transfix. 

Carter began his career as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs. Carter and Courtney then started VEEV Spirits, a vodka alternative and one of the fastest growing independent brands in the U.S. VEEV won a range of awards such as Technomic’s Fast 50 and Inc. Magazine's 500 Fastest-Growing Companies in the U.S. (#7 in the food & beverage category). Carter was named one of the 100 Most Intriguing Entrepreneurs by Goldman Sachs at its annual Builders + Innovators Summit (2014 and 2015).

Carter and Courtney are the authors of the national bestseller Shortcut Your Startup (Simon & Schuster, 2018). In 2019, they were appointed the first-ever Executives in Residence for the City of Los Angeles, created in an effort to merge the arts and entertainment industries with traditional consumer product industries. As part of the initiative, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti appointed Carter to work on the City’s branding initiatives and partner engagements. Carter is a member of the LACMA Board of Trustees and serves on the boards of Daily Harvest, Allocate, and Pietra.

Carter holds a B.A. with distinction from Columbia University.   Global Head Citi Private Bank Global Head Citi Private Bank Ida Liu is the Global Head of Citi Private Bank and a member of the Citi Global Wealth Leadership team. Ida leads the Private Banking activities in 52 offices across 20 countries and delivers wealth management solutions to ultra-high net worth families and their businesses globally. Before becoming the Global Head, she was the Head of Citi Private Bank North America and held numerous other leadership roles.

Ida created Citi Private Bank’s North America Asian Clients Group, and she started her career at Citi by launching and heading the Fashion, Retail and Entertainment Group. Before joining Citi, Ida was at Vivienne Tam, a women’s wear design house, where she was Global Head of Sales, Marketing, Public Relations and Business Development. Prior to this, Ida spent seven years in investment banking with Merrill Lynch’s mergers and acquisitions and technology, media and telecommunications investment banking groups in New York and Hong Kong. She started her career in mergers and acquisitions at BT Wolfensohn (now Deutsche Bank).

Ida has received many industry accolades including Barron’s 10 Most Influential Women in Wealth Management, Barron’s 100 Most Influential Women in U.S. Finance, Crain’s Notable Women on Wall Street and American Banker’s 25 Most Powerful Women in Finance. Additionally, Ida is a Young Global Leader (YGL) of the World Economic Forum, a member of The Committee of 100 (C100) and Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO). Ida serves on the UCLA Health Advisory Board as well as the Asia Society Board of Trustees.

Ida holds a BA with honors from Wellesley College and an MBA from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. She is fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Spanish and conversant in Russian. Founder & Managing Partner Chanos & Company LP Founder & Managing Partner Chanos & Company LP Jim Chanos is the founder and Managing Partner of Chanos & Company LP (f.k.a. Kynikos Associates LP).  As the world’s largest exclusive short selling investment firm, Chanos & Company LP provides investment management services for domestic and offshore clients. Through investment funds, partnerships, corporations, and managed accounts – domestic and offshore – Chanos & Company LP maintains private portfolios of securities for clients.  The Kynikos Capital Partners, Kynikos Global Capital Partners Ursus, Kriticos, and Kynikos Opportunity funds seek to profit from the unusually high alphas found on the long and short side of the U.S. and non-U.S. equity markets. 

Mr. Chanos opened Kynikos Associates LP in 1985 to implement investment strategies he had uncovered while beginning his Wall Street career as a financial analyst with Paine Webber, Gilford Securities, and Deutsche Bank.  Throughout his investment career, Mr. Chanos has identified and sold short the shares of numerous well-known corporate financial disasters; among them, Baldwin-United, Commodore International, First Executive, Integrated Resources, Boston Chicken, Sunbeam, Conseco, Tyco International, WorldCom, Valeant Pharmaceuticals, and Wirecard. His celebrated short-sale of Enron shares was dubbed by Barron’s as “the market call of the decade, if not the past fifty years.”  The media has noted his prescience in alerting finance ministers and others about the global financial crisis well before it occurred.  His views on financial market fraud, capital markets regulation and the Chinese financial system, among other topics, are regularly covered by news organizations worldwide.

Mr. Chanos has testified before Congress and provided comments to regulations proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom. 

Born and raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Mr. Chanos lives in New York City, and has four children.  He is currently a Lecturer in Finance at both the Yale School of Management and the University of Wisconsin School of Business, where he teaches a class on the history of financial fraud. He currently serves as a Trustee at The New-York Historical Society and The Brooklyn Museum.  Mr. Chanos received his BA in economics and political science in 1980 from Yale University.  President, Managing Partner and Cofounder Avenue Capital Group President, Managing Partner and Cofounder Avenue Capital Group Sonia Gardner is President, Managing Partner and Co-Founder of Avenue Capital Group, a global alternative investment manager with over $12.5 billion in assets under management that she co-founded with her brother in 1995.  Ms. Gardner is the Partner in charge of managing the firm globally, and distressed investing has been the focus of her professional career for more than 37 years.  She also co-founded Amroc Investments where she was Senior Portfolio Manager responsible for investing the partners’ capital.  Prior to forming Amroc as an independent entity, she was General Counsel and Senior Managing Director of Amroc Investments, LP, an investment fund affiliated with the Robert M. Bass Group.  She began her career at Cowen & Co. in the Bankruptcy and Corporate Reorganization Department.
Ms. Gardner is currently the United Nations Capital Development Fund Goodwill Ambassador for Gender Equality in Access to Finance.  She previously served on the Board of Trustees of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, and was formerly Chair of the Global Board of Directors of 100 Women in Finance, and continues to serve as Chairman Emeritus.  She currently serves as a member on the Client Advisory Board of Citi Private Bank.  Ms. Gardner received a B.A. with Honors in Philosophy from Clark University (1983), and a J.D. from the Cardozo School of Law (1986).  Senior Managing Director Cerberus Capital Management Senior Managing Director Cerberus Capital Management Dr. Salek is a Senior Managing Director at Cerberus Capital Management, a global leader in alternative investing with nearly 1,000 employees and $60 billion in assets under management. Dr. Salek leads the firm’s investments in data technologies and sits on the board of Avicena Technology (a leading provider of optical chip-to-chip interconnects), and SourceCode (a provider of customized high-performance computing solutions).

Before joining Cerberus in 2022, Dr. Salek was the Founder and head of Silicon for Google Technical Infrastructure and Cloud (GCP) businesses for nearly 9 years. He started and led multiple lines of ground-breaking products that today are part of the de facto infrastructure behind all Google services such as Ads, Search, YouTube, and beyond. His work included building Google’s world-class AI infrastructure including the Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) family of products which enabled the democratization of AI in a wide range of applications. Over the past two decades, Dr. Salek has led the development of products in a wide range of domains such as machine learning, networking, graphics, video, and mobile processors. Prior to his tenure at Google, Dr. Salek was a Senior Director of Engineering at Nvidia, where he was the Founder and head of Nvidia’s System-on-a-Chip Design organization.

Dr. Salek holds a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering and Computer Science from the University of Southern California. Founder & Managing Partner  Global Ventures  Founder & Managing Partner  Global Ventures  Noor is the Founder and Managing Partner of Global Ventures, a UAE-based, Series-A focused, emerging-market venture capital firm with presence in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Nigeria. With $300 million AUM, and financial returns rating it as a top decile fund, Global Ventures has become a leading investor across the Middle East and Africa.

Since its inception in 2018, Global Ventures has completed 60 investments and 5 exits across ten markets, deliberately focused on sectors positively affecting millions of lives across the world, such as FinTech, Digital Health, EdTech and AgriTech. In addition to generating top decile returns, the portfolio has had a demonstrable impact on millions of lives through its company founders creating 11,100 jobs, enabling female leadership, powering financial inclusion for over 64 million people and expanding healthcare access to over 6.8 million patients.

Prior to Global Ventures, Noor was the first woman to operate, scale and IPO a company in the MENA region, listing Depa on NASDAQ Dubai and the London Stock Exchange for US$1.1 billion in April 2008. One of the world’s largest interior contractors, Noor scaled Depa tenfold, expanding operations from six countries to 22, including four cross-border acquisitions.

Identified by Forbes as one of the “World’s Top 50 Women in Tech” and by Arabian Business as one of the “Most Influential Arabs”, Noor's previous roles include Chief Investment Officer at The Dubai Future Foundation and a Founding Partner at Leap Ventures. Noor also founded the largest chain of yoga and pilates studios in the Middle East, ZenYoga, which was acquired by Cedarbridge in 2014.
Noor is an active, independent board director of Clue, the largest femtech company in Europe. She is the Founding Chairwoman of the Middle East Venture Capital Association, a Director of the Global Private Capital Association, TechWadi, and the Karman Fellowship.

She is a member of the Aspen Global Leadership Network and a member of the World Economic Forum’s Young Global Leaders. She previously held Board Director roles at MIT Sloan and was a founding board member of Endeavor UAE.

Noor holds Bachelors’ degrees in Finance and Economics from Boston College, and a MBA from MIT Sloan. Head of Investment & Corporate Banking Mizuho Americas Head of Investment & Corporate Banking Mizuho Americas Michal Katz is the Head of Investment & Corporate Banking for Mizuho Americas, a division of the Mizuho Financial Group, one of the largest financial institutions in the world with $2tn of assets. At Mizuho, she leads a division of close to 1,000 bankers and business professionals across Americas, Europe and Asia. Her division serves clients spanning public and private corporations and alternative investment firms including the largest private equity and infrastructure funds. Michal is a member of Mizuho Americas’ Management Committee, overseeing the region’s strategy and financial performance.

With a career spanning over 25 years on Wall Street, Michal is recognized as a seasoned and trusted advisor in corporate finance, strategy and digital transformation.  Prior to Mizuho, she was Co-Head of the Global Technology Investment Banking Group at RBC Capital Markets. Prior to RBC, Ms. Katz was a Managing Director at Barclays and Lehman Brothers, where she was head of the global software practice in the Technology Investment Banking Group. She also spent several years with the law firms of Skadden Arps and Winthrop Stimson (now Pillsbury Winthrop), where she practiced corporate law.

Ms. Katz was recognized by American Banker as one of the Most Powerful Women in Finance for the past three years, named by Crain's among the Notable Women on Wall Street (2019-2022) and 2024’s Notable Leaders in Finance and awarded 2022’s Trailblazer by Markets Media Women in Finance. She is an independent director to the board of PTC (NASDAQ:PTC) and serves on the board of the GRAMMY Museum Foundation, a not-for-profit arm of the Recording Academy, where she chairs the Finance Committee. She previously served on the board of Nuance Communications (NASDAQ:NUAN). She is also a member of the Centennial Society of the Economic Club of NY and the Forbes Finance Council.

Ms. Katz received her BA with honors from Binghamton University and JD from New York University School of Law. Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of the Global Technology Group General Atlantic Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of the Global Technology Group General Atlantic Anton Levy is Co-President, Managing Director, and Chairman of the Global Technology Group at General Atlantic. He also serves on the firm’s Management, Investment, and Portfolio Committees. Since joining General Atlantic in 1998, Anton has led the firm’s investments in prominent technology companies such as Alibaba, Crowdstrike, Facebook, Slack, and Snapchat and co-led investments in Adyen and Bytedance. He has been named to the Forbes Midas List of top investors each year from 2014 to 2022.

Anton is currently a member of the boards of A Place for Mom, Articulate, Chess.com, Chronosphere, Hibob, Red Ventures, Squarespace, Tilting Point, and Vox Media. He is a board observer of AppsFlyer, BuzzFeed, Clear, and Pendo. Anton also serves as Trustee of Streetwise Partners, as well as Trustee of the Mount Sinai Hospital System and the University of Virginia Endowment.

Prior to joining General Atlantic, Anton was an investment banker at Morgan Stanley, where he focused on the technology sector. Anton attended the McIntire School of Commerce at the University of Virginia, where he received a BS in Commerce with a concentration in Finance & Management Information Systems and a minor in Computer Science. He received his MBA from Columbia Business School.
 Founder & CIO Saba Capital Founder & CIO Saba Capital Boaz Weinstein is the Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Saba Capital Management, a $4.4 billion hedge fund focused on credit relative value strategies, based in New York City. Mr. Weinstein founded Saba in 2009 as a lift-out of the Deutsche Bank proprietary credit trading group he started in 1998. At Saba, Mr. Weinstein leads a team of 42 professionals, with the senior members having worked together for more than a decade. In 2021, Risk.net named Saba Capital Management Hedge Fund of the Year. In 2022, HFM US Performance Awards named Saba: winner Credit – Relative Value fund over $500mm. 

Previously, Mr. Weinstein worked at Deutsche Bank for eleven years, the last eight years as Managing Director (a title he achieved at age 27). Throughout his career at Deutsche Bank, Mr. Weinstein had dual responsibility for proprietary trading and market making.  In 2008, Mr. Weinstein was promoted to Co-Head of Global Credit Trading, overseeing a group of 650 investment professionals.  He was also a member of the Global Markets Executive Committee. 

Mr. Weinstein graduated from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, with a BA in Philosophy. He achieved the title of National Master in chess at age 16. Managing Director of Investments Pivotal Ventures Managing Director of Investments Pivotal Ventures Erin Harkless Moore is the Managing Director of Investments for Pivotal Ventures, a Melinda French Gates company created to accelerate social progress in the U.S. As a member of Pivotal’s Executive Leadership Team, Erin leads the organization’s fund, and direct investment decisions, overseeing a diverse portfolio of investments that drive breakthrough innovations and drive impact for people in this country. With nearly 20 years of investment experience, building and managing customized portfolios for endowed institutions and family offices, Erin’s commitment to discovering and cultivating relationships with leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and founders has been a driving force in her success.

Prior to joining Pivotal, Erin served as Managing Director at Cambridge Associates, where she sourced and conducted diligence on investment managers across asset classes, with a particular focus and expertise in the private markets and early-stage venture capital.  She currently serves on the Board and Investment Committee for Builders Initiative and is currently an at-large member of the Alumni Board of Governors for her alma mater, Washington University. A native Texan, she resides on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC with her husband and two children. When not chasing after her kids, Erin enjoys exploring new restaurants, spending time with friends, travel, reading and fiction writing. Director of Mission Investments Ford Foundation Director of Mission Investments Ford Foundation Roy Swan leads the Ford Foundation’s Mission Investments team, responsible for the foundation’s $1bn impact investing endowment. Roy also oversees the foundation’s program related investments and grantmaking dedicated to strengthening the global ESG and impact investing fields. Before joining the Ford Foundation, Roy held numerous senior roles at Morgan Stanley, including Co-Head of Global Sustainable Finance, CEO of Morgan Stanley Impact SBIC, and President of Morgan Stanley Trust savings bank.

Over his career, Roy worked in corporate law at Skadden Arps; investment banking at The First Boston Corporation, Salomon Brothers, Hambrecht & Quist, and JPMorgan; and finance & administration at Time Warner. He also served as the founding Chief Investment Officer of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone and Chief Financial Officer of Carver Bank, a Harlem-based publicly traded financial institution and the nation’s largest African American managed bank at the time.

Roy has served on over a dozen boards and advisory committees, including Varo Bank, SASB Foundation, Parnassus Funds, Novata, KKR Sustainability Expert Advisory Council, Enterprise Community Partners, and the Dalton School, where he was named a Lifetime Honorary Trustee in 2022.

Roy graduated from Princeton University and Stanford Law School, where he was an editor of the Stanford Law Review. Founder & Chief Investment Officer Strategic Value Partners Founder & Chief Investment Officer Strategic Value Partners Victor Khosla is the Founder and Chief Investment Officer of SVPGlobal, an industry leading global private credit investment firm with roots in credit, distressed and private equity investing. SVPGlobal manages $18+ billion on behalf of some of the most significant pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and wealth management platforms in the world. The firm has over 140 employees and offices in Greenwich, CT, London and Tokyo. Mr. Khosla has a distinguished 30+ year track record in distressed and private equity investing. He established SVPGlobal in 2001 and has since led the firm’s transformation from distressed debt and event trading to global credit investing, focused on event-driven, special situations, private equity and financing opportunities. Over his career, Mr. Khosla built and managed one of the top distressed proprietary trading businesses at Merrill Lynch, served as President of Cerberus Capital and ran MooreSVP, a JV with Moore Capital. Mr. Khosla is a member of the Management Council at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, as well as on the board of Pratham USA, one of the largest non-governmental education organizations in India. He graduated with a first class Bachelors of Commerce (Honors) degree from Delhi University, an MA in Economics from Vanderbilt University and an MBA from the University of Chicago. CIO Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management CIO Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management Julian is chief investment officer of Asset & Wealth Management at Goldman Sachs. He is a member of the Management Committee. Julian is also co-chair of the Asset Management Investment Committees, including those for private equity, infrastructure, growth equity, credit and real estate. 

Prior to assuming his current role, Julian was global co-head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management. Before that, he served as global head of the Merchant Banking Division. Previously, Julian was head of the Global Special Situations Group and head of the European Special Situations Group (ESSG), based in London. He joined Goldman Sachs in 1998, and was named managing director in 2005 and partner in 2008.

Julian earned a BCs and an MSc from Loughborough University. Author, The Aspirational Investor and President & Chief Investment Officer Euclidean Capital Author, The Aspirational Investor and President & Chief Investment Officer Euclidean Capital Ashvin Chhabra is President and Chief Investment Officer of Euclidean Capital – a New York based family office for James H. Simons & Marilyn H. Simons.

The Simons Foundation is dedicated to advancing research in mathematics and the basic sciences. It is currently one of America’s two or three largest private funders of these areas.

Prior to his current position, he was Chief Investment Officer for Merrill Lynch Wealth Management from 2013-2015 and Chief Investment Officer at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton from 2007-2013.
Ashvin is also the author of The Aspirational Investor, published by Harper Collins in 2015.

Dr. Chhabra is a member of the investment committees of the Stony Brook Foundation, Institute for Advanced Study, The National Academy of Sciences & Rockefeller University, and, a member of the Director’s Advisory Board for the International Centre for Theoretical Physics at Trieste, Italy. He has lectured at Yale University, Carnegie Mellon University, Baruch College CUNY, and the University of Chicago.

Ashvin holds a PhD in applied physics from Yale University in the field of non-linear dynamics (Chaos theory). Founder & Managing Partner SkyBridge Capital Founder & Managing Partner SkyBridge Capital Anthony Scaramucci is the founder and managing partner of SkyBridge, a global alternative investment firm, and founder and chairman of SALT, a global thought leadership forum and venture studio.
Prior to founding SkyBridge in 2005, Scaramucci co-founded investment partnership Oscar Capital Management, which was sold to Neuberger Berman in 2001. Earlier, he worked in Private Wealth Management at Goldman Sachs & Co.

In 2022, Scaramucci was ranked #47 in Cointelegraph’s Top 100 Influencers in Crypto and Blockchain. In 2016, he was ranked #85 in Worth Magazine’s Power 100: The 100 Most Powerful People in Global Finance. In 2011, he received Ernst & Young’s New York Financial Services “Entrepreneur of the Year” Award.  Anthony is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and a board member of the Federal Enforcement Homeland Security Foundation. He is the author of five books.

Scaramucci served on President Donald J. Trump’s 16-person Presidential Transition Team Executive Committee, and in 2017 briefly served as Chief Strategy Officer of the Export-Import (EXIM) Bank and White House Communications Director.

Scaramucci, a native of Long Island, New York, holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Tufts University and a Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School. CIO J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Hedge Fund & Alternative Credit Solutions CIO J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Hedge Fund & Alternative Credit Solutions Mr. Zummo is Chief Investment Officer of J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Hedge Fund & Alternative Credit Solutions and Head of the Research & Portfolio Management Group. Mr. Zummo is Chair of the JPMAAM Investment Committee and co-founded JPMAAM in 1994. Prior to that, Mr. Zummo served as the manager of retirement plan investments for the Interpublic Group of Companies from 1992 to 1994, where he was responsible for analysis, asset allocation, and manager selection. From 1990 to 1992, he worked at the former Chase organization as an investment analyst and consultant for institutional clients of the Chase Consulting Group. Mr. Zummo received a B.S. from the State University of New York at Albany and an M.B.A. from New York University. He holds the Chartered Financial Analyst® (CFA) designation and is a member of the CFA Institute. Managing Director & COO, Credit New Mountain Capital Managing Director & COO, Credit New Mountain Capital Laura Holson, Managing Director, joined New Mountain Capital in 2009. Ms. Holson is primarily dedicated to the credit business and serves as COO of the credit platform, which manages nearly ~$9B across private credit, in private funds and a public BDC, and syndicated loans in private funds and CLOs. This role includes serving as the COO of it’s publicly listed BDC, New Mountain Finance Corp. Ms. Holson has also served as the head of capital markets for the firm, overseeing financing and capital markets activities across it’s ~$40B portfolio. Before joining New Mountain, Ms. Holson worked at Morgan Stanley from 2007 to 2009 in the Healthcare investment banking group.

Ms. Holson received a B.S. in Economics with concentrations in Finance and Marketing from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, where she graduated magna cum laude. Chair & General Partner B Capital Chair & General Partner B Capital Howard Morgan is the Chair and General Partner of B Capital, based in the firm’s New York office. He is considered one of the pioneers of early-stage investing, having co-founded First Round Capital alongside Josh Kopelman, which was the first professional seed stage fund. Prior to First Round, Howard co-founded Idealab and Renaissance Technologies where he also served as President.

Prior to moving into the business of technology, Howard served as a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business and the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, and also taught at Cornell University. He is currently an Executive Fellow at UC Berkeley.

He currently serves as a Director of Idealab, and he is on the board of several non-profits including Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and Math For America. He has also served on several public company Boards, including Franklin Electronic Publishers and Internet Brands, Inc. Howard is a respected author, having published books on computer science, investing and marketing. 
 Cofounder & CEO iConnections Cofounder & CEO iConnections Ron Biscardi is the CEO and Co-Founder of iConnections and has over 25 years of experience in the alternative investment industry. In April 2020, he launched iConnections, a cap intro technology platform that connects the alternative investment management industry.  The iConnections platform allows managers to securely share fund information with allocators, who can easily evaluate and engage with relevant managers. Since inception over 36,000 cap intro meetings have been hosted via the iConnections platform.   

The iConnections platform is used to power bespoke investor events and is the technology of choice for the largest industry events including SALT, AIMA, CNBC, Forbes and FundWomen Week. Prior to iConnections Ron also created the world’s largest capital introductions conference. The latest iteration is the iConnections Global Alternatives Conference held annually in Miami Beach which hosts over 3000 of the alternative industry’s managers, allocators and thought leaders.    

iConnections’ annual philanthropic events, which started with Funds4Food, and followed with Funds4Minds and Funds4Ukraine have raised over $2.5 million for charities around the world. Prior to iConnections, Ron co-founded and ran a boutique seeding firm where he closed
more than 20 seed deals and deployed over $600 million in capital.   Editor-at-Large, Forbes & Founder, Iconoclast Forbes Editor-at-Large, Forbes & Founder, Iconoclast Forbes Maneet Ahuja is Editor-at-Large at Forbes, where she covers the intersection of Wall Street, billionaires & entrepreneurial capitalism. She is also the Founder of ICONOCLAST, Forbes' premier global investor summit that convenes the world’s most iconic industry titans, institutional investors, dealmakers and celebrities with collectively over $20 trillion in AUM for high-level conversations on the most critical issues impacting our economy and markets today. Before joining Forbes, she was awarded the prestigious Knight-Bagehot Fellowship at Columbia Journalism School and had over a decade-long tenure at CNBC, where she co-founded the network’s flagship annual Wall Street summit Delivering Alpha and launched coverage on hedge funds and alternatives at Squawk Box. Prior to CNBC, she was a part of the Wall Street Journal’s Money & Investing team and began her career on Wall Street at the age of seventeen working at Citigroup—which is where she earned the nickname “Wall Street Maneet.” She was also the host of Spotify's special-edition podcast Megatrends (Gimlet media, 2019) and author of The Alpha Masters: Inside the Genius of the World's Top Hedge Funds. Chief Content Officer & Under 30 Founder Forbes Chief Content Officer & Under 30 Founder Forbes Randall Lane is the Chief Content Officer of Forbes Media and editor of Forbes Magazine, responsible for editorial content across all platforms. Since returning to Forbes in 2011, he has helped the magazine and Forbes.com reach peak levels of readership. He created The Forbes 400 Summit on Philanthropy and the Under 30 Summit, the world’s greatest convening of young leaders and entrepreneurs. 

Prior to joining Forbes, Lane cofounded two media companies, launching over a dozen editorial brands, including P.O.V. (Adweek’s “Startup of the Year”), Trader Monthly and Dealmaker. Lane began his career at Forbes in 1991, and served as reporter, staff writer and Washington bureau chief.

Lane sits on the board of directors of Global Citizen, as well as three boards affiliated with his alma mater, the University of Pennsylvania. Chief Executive Officer Forbes Chief Executive Officer Forbes Mike Federle is the Chief Executive Officer of Forbes, one of the world’s most instantly recognizable brands and one of the largest media companies by audience.  

Under Mike’s direction, Forbes continues to expand its product portfolio and its reach. Today, Forbes, which is synonymous with “success” in almost every country around the world, engages 140 million people across every platform every month – the most in its 105-year history.  

Mike has accelerated Forbes’ digital transformation efforts and led the company to its most successful years on record. He works closely with his management team and employees at all levels to set corporate strategy and nurture a #OneTeam culture that fosters innovation and allows the brand to quickly pivot in a rapidly changing marketplace.  

With 30+ years’ experience in the media business, he has successfully guided multiple companies through the constantly evolving industry. Mike previously served as the company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Forbes in 2011, he was a Co-Founder, President and Chief Operating Officer of Techonomy Media Inc. He has held top positions at major media brands, including as Publisher of Fortune magazine, Group Publisher of the Time Inc. Business & Finance Network that included media properties such as Fortune, Money, Business2.0 and CNNMoney.com.

Mike is a Director on the Board of Forbes Media LLC, Board Chair of Marketplace Advisor and serves a board advisory role to Desknet Inc and Hub Culture. Chairman & Editor-in-Chief Forbes Chairman & Editor-in-Chief Forbes Steve Forbes is Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes Media.

His new book, which he co-authored with Nathan Lewis and Elizabeth Ames, is entitled Inflation: What It Is, Why It’s Bad and How To Fix It.

Forbes broadcasts a popular webcast called What’s Ahead, where he gives insightful analyses of events as well as engaging the world’s leading newsmakers, politicians and pioneers in business and economics in captivating conversations.

He helped create the award-winning documentary In Money We Trust? which was produced under the auspices of Maryland Public Television. The film was inspired by the book he co-wrote, Money. He was executive producer of the new, highly acclaimed documentary Coolidge: Rediscovering an American President. He also recently launched a series on the educational website Izzit.org/Forbes that presents inspirational stories and lessons from history’s greatest innovators—many largely forgotten—whose achievements have shaped modern life.

Forbes writes editorials for each issue of Forbes under the heading of “Fact and Comment.”
A widely respected economic prognosticator, he is the only writer to have won the highly prestigious Crystal Owl Award four times for the accuracy of his economic forecasts.

In 1996 and 2000, Steve campaigned vigorously for the Republican nomination for the presidency. Key to his platform were a flat tax, medical savings accounts, a stable dollar, a new Social System for working Americans, parental choice of schools for their children, term limits and a strong national defense. He continues to energetically promote this agenda. President and Publisher, ForbesWomen & Executive Vice President Forbes President and Publisher, ForbesWomen & Executive Vice President Forbes Moira Forbes is the Executive Vice President of Forbes, one of the world’s largest media brands, where she is responsible for driving new business initiatives across the company’s diverse media platforms and branding Forbes events worldwide. Today, Forbes, which is synonymous with “success” in almost every country around the world, engages 140 million people across every platform every month – the most in its 104-year history. 

Moira also serves as the President and Publisher of ForbesWomen, a multi-media content channel dedicated to successful women in business and leadership which she founded in 2007. Moira oversees Forbes’ annual list of the World’s Most Powerful Women and the annual Power Women’s Summit which she launched in 2013. 

Across Forbes’ global editorial platforms, Moira convenes preeminent thought leaders for timely perspective and analysis around today’s most critical issues. She hosts "Success with Moira Forbes," a Forbes interview series spotlighting dynamic changemakers and industry innovators as well as “The Takeaway,” a new Forbes simulcast series featuring how top minds are navigating  these defining times and explores what’s ahead within their respective arenas.

Moira is a Governing Trustee of the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and serves on the Board of Trustees for the St. Andrews School. She currently lives in New York City with her husband and two sons. VP & Executive Editor, Money & Markets Forbes VP & Executive Editor, Money & Markets Forbes Matt Schifrin is Vice President & Executive Editor of Money & Markets for Forbes. He has worked for Forbes for more than 25 years and learned business journalism under Forbes’ late great editor Jim Michaels. For the first 15 years of his career, he wrote mostly investigative features but now he is responsible for investing and finance content in Forbes Magazine and on Forbes.com. He's also Editor in Charge of Forbes Newsletter Group and Forbes iConferences, and used to run Forbes Best Of The Web. He won a SABEW award in 2012 and a MIN Best of The Web award in 2009. His book, "The Warren Buffetts Next Door, The World's Greatest Investor You've Never Heard Of," was published in 2011. He is a graduate of Cornell University. Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership Forbes Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership Forbes Diane Brady oversees the editorial team that's focused on C-suite communities, careers, and entrepreneurial networks, including ForbesWomen, Small Business, and Under 30. Prior to joining Forbes, Diane was a senior editor at McKinsey, where she hosted The McKinsey Podcast. She also ran her own company, working with partners worldwide to create strategies, events, and multiplatform storytelling to tackle critical issues in leadership and business. 

Diane has interviewed many of the world's leading business and political figures, with a particular focus on leadership and C-suite trends. Her previous roles include being a senior editor/content chief at Bloomberg BusinessWeek, a staff reporter at The Wall Street Journal and an associate editor at Maclean’s. She has also written two books and won numerous awards for her writing. Diane holds graduate degrees from Columbia University and the University of Nairobi, as well as an undergraduate degree from the University of Toronto.  
 Assistant Managing Editor, Founders Forbes Assistant Managing Editor, Founders Forbes Steven Bertoni is an award-winning journalist who has spent the last decade chronicling the world's top leaders and entrepreneurs. He currently heads Forbes' Founders team, covering leading entrepreneurs and the Forbes Under 30 and Creator franchises. Bertoni is an expert at cross-platform storytelling through print, digital, video, social media, live events, communities, and podcasts. He has appeared on CNN, MSNBC, Fox News, NPR, C-Span, and CNBC, where he has served as guest host on Squawk Box. As host of the Forbes Interview podcast, he created and moderated more than 50 episodes starring some of the biggest names in business and technology.  Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes
 Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes
 Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes
 Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes David Solomon, Chairman & CEO, Goldman Sachs
 Interviewer: Randall Lane, Chief Content Officer, Forbes
 David Solomon, Chairman & CEO, Goldman Sachs
 Interviewer: Randall Lane, Chief Content Officer, Forbes Mary Callahan Erdoes, CEO, J.P. Morgan Asset & Wealth Management
 Bruce Flatt, CEO, Brookfield
 Dambisa Moyo, Baroness and Member of the UK’s House of Lords
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes
 Mary Callahan Erdoes, CEO, J.P. Morgan Asset & Wealth Management
 Bruce Flatt, CEO, Brookfield
 Dambisa Moyo, Baroness and Member of the UK’s House of Lords
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes Ray Dalio, Founder, CIO Mentor and Member of the Board, Bridgewater
 Interviewer: Steve Forbes, Chairman & Editor-in-Chief, Forbes
 Ray Dalio, Founder, CIO Mentor and Member of the Board, Bridgewater
 Interviewer: Steve Forbes, Chairman & Editor-in-Chief, Forbes Aryeh Bourkoff, Founder & CEO, LionTree LLC
 Michal Katz, Head of Investment & Corporate Banking, Mizuho Americas 
 Moderator: Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes
 Aryeh Bourkoff, Founder & CEO, LionTree LLC
 Michal Katz, Head of Investment & Corporate Banking, Mizuho Americas 
 Moderator: Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes  Amir Salek, Senior Managing Director, Cerberus Capital Management
 Julian Salisbury, CIO, Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management
 Noor Sweid, Founder & Managing Partner, Global Ventures
 Moderator: Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes
 Amir Salek, Senior Managing Director, Cerberus Capital Management
 Julian Salisbury, CIO, Goldman Sachs Asset & Wealth Management
 Noor Sweid, Founder & Managing Partner, Global Ventures
 Moderator: Mike Federle, CEO, Forbes  Ed Cass, CIO, CPP Investments
Ashvin Chhabra, President & CIO, Euclidean Capital
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes
  Ed Cass, CIO, CPP Investments
Ashvin Chhabra, President & CIO, Euclidean Capital
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes HRH Princess Jahnavi Kumari Mewar, Founder & Head of Private Equity, Auctus Fora
 Interviewer: Moira Forbes, President & Publisher, ForbesWomen and EVP, Forbes
 HRH Princess Jahnavi Kumari Mewar, Founder & Head of Private Equity, Auctus Fora
 Interviewer: Moira Forbes, President & Publisher, ForbesWomen and EVP, Forbes  Jim Chanos, Founder & Managing Partner, Chanos & Company
 Victor Khosla, Founder & CIO, Strategic Value Partners 
 Boaz Weinstein, Founder & CIO, Saba Capital Management
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes
 Jim Chanos, Founder & Managing Partner, Chanos & Company
 Victor Khosla, Founder & CIO, Strategic Value Partners 
 Boaz Weinstein, Founder & CIO, Saba Capital Management
 Moderator: Diane Brady, Assistant Managing Editor, Communities & Leadership, Forbes Sonia Gardner, Cofounder, President and Managing Partner, Avenue Capital Group 
Robyn Grew, President and newly-named CEO, Man Group
Ida Liu, Global Head, Citi Private Bank 
Moderator: Steve Bertoni, Assistant Managing Editor, Founders, Forbes
 Sonia Gardner, Cofounder, President and Managing Partner, Avenue Capital Group 
Robyn Grew, President and newly-named CEO, Man Group
Ida Liu, Global Head, Citi Private Bank 
Moderator: Steve Bertoni, Assistant Managing Editor, Founders, Forbes Laura Holson, Managing Director & COO, Credit, New Mountain Capital
Howard Morgan, Chair & General Partner, B Capital
Anthony Scaramucci, Founder & Managing Partner, SkyBridge Capital
Paul Zummo, J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Hedge Fund & Alternative Credit Solutions
Moderator: Ron Biscardi, Cofounder & CEO, iConnections
 Laura Holson, Managing Director & COO, Credit, New Mountain Capital
Howard Morgan, Chair & General Partner, B Capital
Anthony Scaramucci, Founder & Managing Partner, SkyBridge Capital
Paul Zummo, J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Hedge Fund & Alternative Credit Solutions
Moderator: Ron Biscardi, Cofounder & CEO, iConnections Lydia Jett, Managing Partner, Softbank Investment Advisers
Anton Levy, Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of Global Technology Group, General Atlantic 
Carter Reum, Cofounder & Partner, M13 Ventures 
Moderator: Steve Bertoni, Assistant Managing Editor, Founders, Forbes
 Lydia Jett, Managing Partner, Softbank Investment Advisers
Anton Levy, Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of Global Technology Group, General Atlantic 
Carter Reum, Cofounder & Partner, M13 Ventures 
Moderator: Steve Bertoni, Assistant Managing Editor, Founders, Forbes Erin Harkless Moore, Senior Director of Investments, Pivotal Ventures
 Roy Swan, Director of Mission Investments, Ford Foundation
 Moderator: Moira Forbes, President & Publisher, ForbesWomen and EVP, Forbes
 Erin Harkless Moore, Senior Director of Investments, Pivotal Ventures
 Roy Swan, Director of Mission Investments, Ford Foundation
 Moderator: Moira Forbes, President & Publisher, ForbesWomen and EVP, Forbes Jonathan Gray, President & COO, Blackstone
 Eric Wilmes, Managing Director & President, Americas, GIC
 Moderator: Matt Schifrin, VP & Executive Editor, Money & Markets, Forbes
 Jonathan Gray, President & COO, Blackstone
 Eric Wilmes, Managing Director & President, Americas, GIC
 Moderator: Matt Schifrin, VP & Executive Editor, Money & Markets, Forbes  Mellody Hobson, Co-CEO & President, Ariel Investments
 Interviewer: Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes
 Mellody Hobson, Co-CEO & President, Ariel Investments
 Interviewer: Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes Marc Lasry, Cofounder & CEO, Avenue Capital Group
 Michael Strahan, Pro Football Hall of Famer, Broadcaster, and Entrepreneur
 Interviewer: Randall Lane, Chief Content Officer, Forbes
 Marc Lasry, Cofounder & CEO, Avenue Capital Group
 Michael Strahan, Pro Football Hall of Famer, Broadcaster, and Entrepreneur
 Interviewer: Randall Lane, Chief Content Officer, Forbes Sir Lewis Hamilton MBE, Seven-Time Formula 1 World Champion 
 Toto Wolff, Co-Owner, CEO and Team Principal of the Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team
 Interviewer: Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes
 Sir Lewis Hamilton MBE, Seven-Time Formula 1 World Champion 
 Toto Wolff, Co-Owner, CEO and Team Principal of the Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team
 Interviewer: Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes
 Maneet Ahuja, Founder & Editor-at-Large, Iconoclast, Forbes   Cofounder & CEO iConnections Cofounder & CEO iConnections Ron Biscardi is the CEO and Co-Founder of iConnections and has over 25 years of experience in the alternative investment industry. In April 2020, he launched iConnections, a cap intro technology platform that connects the alternative investment management industry.  The iConnections platform allows managers to securely share fund information with allocators, who can easily evaluate and engage with relevant managers. Since inception over 36,000 cap intro meetings have been hosted via the iConnections platform.   

The iConnections platform is used to power bespoke investor events and is the technology of choice for the largest industry events including SALT, AIMA, CNBC, Forbes and FundWomen Week. Prior to iConnections Ron also created the world’s largest capital introductions conference. The latest iteration is the iConnections Global Alternatives Conference held annually in Miami Beach which hosts over 3000 of the alternative industry’s managers, allocators and thought leaders.    

iConnections’ annual philanthropic events, which started with Funds4Food, and followed with Funds4Minds and Funds4Ukraine have raised over $2.5 million for charities around the world. Prior to iConnections, Ron co-founded and ran a boutique seeding firm where he closed
more than 20 seed deals and deployed over $600 million in capital.   Executive Vice President CAIA Association Executive Vice President CAIA Association John serves as Executive Vice President for the CAIA Association, overseeing the industry leading CAIA charter, thought leadership, and CAIA's Asia Pacific growth aspirations. 

John has devoted 25 years to the asset management industry to recover the narrative of the value that the investment profession brings to society. He is a staunch public advocate for market integrity, long-termism, investor outcomes, diversity, human dignity and educational standards, as necessary ingredients to building a sustainable and healthy profession.

John previously served as Managing Director for the Americas for CFA Institute, a region comprised of 40+ countries from Canada, the U.S., Central America, South America and the Caribbean. Bowman joined CFA Institute in 2004 after holding several industry positions. He served as a portfolio manager at Mellon Growth Advisors (MGA), where he was responsible for portfolio construction and stock selection for the MGA International Growth and MGA Global Growth strategies. Bowman also served as a portfolio manager for the International Growth Opportunities Strategy at State Street Global Advisors (SSgA) in its Global Fundamental Strategies Group. Before moving into portfolio management at SSgA, he was an equity analyst focused on domestic and international telecom, technology, consumer products and retail.

John is a prolific writer and commentator, frequently appearing in industry and business publications such as the Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Pension and Investments, Financial Advisor, The Independent, Wealthmanagement.com and CNBC.

Bowman earned a BS in Business Administration from Mary Washington College and is a CFA charterholder. CIO CPP Investments CIO CPP Investments As CPP Investments’ Chief Investment Officer, Ed works closely with the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Investment Department leaders to strengthen the organization’s investment governance with the aim of generating greater performance gains.

He joined CPP Investments in 2008, initially heading the Global Capital Markets group during the financial crisis. He subsequently headed the Global Corporate Securities group and then the Global Tactical Asset Allocation team, all within the Public Market Investments department. Ed served as Chief Investment Strategist and Head of Total Portfolio Management from 2014 to 2017 and was most recently the Global Head of Real Assets.

With over 25 years of investment experience, Ed previously held senior positions at Fortress Management Group, Deutsche Bank Canada and TD Securities.

Ed holds a BS (Hons) in Theoretical Physics from Queen’s University and a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree from York University’s Osgoode Hall Law School. President & CEO Rockefeller Capital Management President & CEO Rockefeller Capital Management Gregory J. Fleming is the Chief Executive Officer of Rockefeller Capital Management, a role he has held since the firm, formerly known as Rockefeller & Co., launched in March 2018. He is also a member of the Board of Directors.

Prior to leading Rockefeller Capital Management, Greg was the President of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management and Morgan Stanley Investment Management. Before joining Morgan Stanley in 2010, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch, from 2007 to 2009, and previously ran Merrill Lynch’s Global Investment Banking business. Greg joined Merrill Lynch as an investment banker in 1992. He had also been a principal at Booz Allen Hamilton.

He is a member of the Board of Advisors for the Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law; a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a member of the Economic Club of New York and a trustee at Deerfield Academy.  He also serves as a Resource Council member of the Turn 2 Foundation and serves on the Advisory Board of COVR, an innovative financial services startup. He frequently serves as a Visiting Lecturer in Law at Yale Law School.

Greg is a Phi Beta Kappa, summa cum laude graduate of Colgate University with a bachelor’s degree in Economics. He received his J.D. from Yale Law School. President, Managing Partner and Cofounder Avenue Capital Group President, Managing Partner and Cofounder Avenue Capital Group Sonia Gardner is President, Managing Partner and Co-Founder of Avenue Capital Group, a global alternative investment manager with over $12.5 billion in assets under management that she co-founded with her brother in 1995.  Ms. Gardner is the Partner in charge of managing the firm globally, and distressed investing has been the focus of her professional career for more than 37 years.  She also co-founded Amroc Investments where she was Senior Portfolio Manager responsible for investing the partners’ capital.  Prior to forming Amroc as an independent entity, she was General Counsel and Senior Managing Director of Amroc Investments, LP, an investment fund affiliated with the Robert M. Bass Group.  She began her career at Cowen & Co. in the Bankruptcy and Corporate Reorganization Department.
Ms. Gardner is currently the United Nations Capital Development Fund Goodwill Ambassador for Gender Equality in Access to Finance.  She previously served on the Board of Trustees of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, and was formerly Chair of the Global Board of Directors of 100 Women in Finance, and continues to serve as Chairman Emeritus.  She currently serves as a member on the Client Advisory Board of Citi Private Bank.  Ms. Gardner received a B.A. with Honors in Philosophy from Clark University (1983), and a J.D. from the Cardozo School of Law (1986).  Managing Director of Investments Pivotal Ventures Managing Director of Investments Pivotal Ventures Erin Harkless Moore is the Managing Director of Investments for Pivotal Ventures, a Melinda French Gates company created to accelerate social progress in the U.S. As a member of Pivotal’s Executive Leadership Team, Erin leads the organization’s fund, and direct investment decisions, overseeing a diverse portfolio of investments that drive breakthrough innovations and drive impact for people in this country. With nearly 20 years of investment experience, building and managing customized portfolios for endowed institutions and family offices, Erin’s commitment to discovering and cultivating relationships with leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and founders has been a driving force in her success.

Prior to joining Pivotal, Erin served as Managing Director at Cambridge Associates, where she sourced and conducted diligence on investment managers across asset classes, with a particular focus and expertise in the private markets and early-stage venture capital.  She currently serves on the Board and Investment Committee for Builders Initiative and is currently an at-large member of the Alumni Board of Governors for her alma mater, Washington University. A native Texan, she resides on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC with her husband and two children. When not chasing after her kids, Erin enjoys exploring new restaurants, spending time with friends, travel, reading and fiction writing. Chairman North Island and North Island Ventures Chairman North Island and North Island Ventures Glenn Hutchins is Chairman of North Island and North Island Ventures and a co-founder of Silver Lake. He is a director of AT&T and Digital Currency Group; Co-Chair of the Brookings Institution, Chair of CARE and Vice Chair of the Obama Foundation; on the Executive Committee of the Boston Celtics Basketball Team; and a board member of the New York Presbyterian Hospital. He is also a member of the Investment Board and International Advisory Board of GIC Private Limited, the sovereign wealth fund of Singapore.

He was a Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 2011- 2020.  Mr. Hutchins also served President Clinton in both the transition and the White House as a special advisor on economic and health-care policy. 

He was previously chairman of the board of SunGard Data Systems, Inc. and Instinet, Inc. and a director of Nasdaq, Inc and Virtu Financial.  He was also a director of the Harvard Management Company for a decade and co-chairman of Harvard University’s capital campaign., 
  
Mr. Hutchins and his wife, Debbie, founded the Hutchins Family Foundation which, among other projects, is supporting the construction of the Obama Presidential Center and has created the Hutchins Center for African & African American Research at Harvard University; the Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy at The Brookings Institution; and the Chronic Fatigue Initiative, which conducted basic research into the cause of chronic fatigue syndrome.  
  
Mr. Hutchins has published essays on economic and public policy in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post, Financial Times, Fortune and Foreign Affairs. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
  
Mr. Hutchins holds an A.B. from Harvard College, an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. Founder & Head of Private Equity Auctus Fora Founder & Head of Private Equity Auctus Fora Princess Jahnavi Kumari Mewar, a senior member of India’s most powerful royal family, leads both her father’s and her husband’s family offices and is the founder and head of PE co-investment platform for other family offices, Auctus Fora. She leads day-to-day operations for all three entities. Managing Partner SoftBank Investment Advisers Managing Partner SoftBank Investment Advisers Lydia Jett is a Managing Partner at SoftBank Investment Advisers (SBIA) where she helps lead the firm’s US Consumer Internet and Global eCommerce Sectors. Lydia has led and represents Softbank on the Board of Directors of the firm’s global eCommerce investments including Coupang (NYSE: CPNG), Fanatics, Flipkart and GoTo. Additionally, Lydia has led and represents Softbank on the Board of Directors of Andela, Block, Candy, Embark, Klook, LTK, Misfits Market, mmhmm, Pacaso, Papa, Perch, The Sandbox. Prior to SBIA, Lydia was a senior member of the investment team at SoftBank Group Corp International where she led SBGI’s investments in Guardant Health (Nasdaq: GH), 10X Genomics (Nasdaq: TXG) and Fetch Robotics (sale to Zebra) and represented Softbank on the board of inMobi. Previously, Lydia was a Vice President at M/C Partners, a growth equity firm, and an Associate at Goldman Sachs in the Principal Investment Area where she invested across media and technology sectors. She started her career at JPMorgan. In addition, she is an independent board member of Ozon (Nasdaq: Ozon) and on the Venture Advisory Board of Silicon Valley Bank. Lydia is a graduate of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, the London School of Economics and Smith College. Founder & Chief Investment Officer Strategic Value Partners Founder & Chief Investment Officer Strategic Value Partners Victor Khosla is the Founder and Chief Investment Officer of SVPGlobal, an industry leading global private credit investment firm with roots in credit, distressed and private equity investing. SVPGlobal manages $18+ billion on behalf of some of the most significant pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and wealth management platforms in the world. The firm has over 140 employees and offices in Greenwich, CT, London and Tokyo. Mr. Khosla has a distinguished 30+ year track record in distressed and private equity investing. He established SVPGlobal in 2001 and has since led the firm’s transformation from distressed debt and event trading to global credit investing, focused on event-driven, special situations, private equity and financing opportunities. Over his career, Mr. Khosla built and managed one of the top distressed proprietary trading businesses at Merrill Lynch, served as President of Cerberus Capital and ran MooreSVP, a JV with Moore Capital. Mr. Khosla is a member of the Management Council at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, as well as on the board of Pratham USA, one of the largest non-governmental education organizations in India. He graduated with a first class Bachelors of Commerce (Honors) degree from Delhi University, an MA in Economics from Vanderbilt University and an MBA from the University of Chicago. Music Executive, Board Director, Private Investor, and Entrepreneur Music Executive, Board Director, Private Investor, and Entrepreneur  Ceci Kurzman is a music executive, board director, private investor, and entrepreneur.  In her 20+ year career, Ceci achieved numerous successes as a music industry leader, before founding Nexus Management Group and shepherding the careers of some of the world’s most successful music artists. She serves on public, private, and nonprofit boards, including Revlon Inc., Man Group, Lanvin Group, United Talent Agency and Warner Music Group. Ceci is passionate about mentoring female entrepreneurs and is a strong advocate for diversity in the boardroom.. She has invested, launched, and funded several early and growth-stage businesses across media, fashion, beauty and consumer goods. A champion for equitable innovation, with deep expertise in branding and consumer behavior, Ceci helps brands maintain relevance, achieve differentiation, and connect with increasingly sophisticated consumers in a complex digital world. Ceci’s understanding of industry ecosystems, and the inherent inequities that create unmet market opportunities, inspired her to found the newly launched consumer-tech platform OurX. Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of the Global Technology Group General Atlantic Co-President, Managing Director and Chairman of the Global Technology Group General Atlantic Anton Levy is Co-President, Managing Director, and Chairman of the Global Technology Group at General Atlantic. He also serves on the firm’s Management, Investment, and Portfolio Committees. Since joining General Atlantic in 1998, Anton has led the firm’s investments in prominent technology companies such as Alibaba, Crowdstrike, Facebook, Slack, and Snapchat and co-led investments in Adyen and Bytedance. He has been named to the Forbes Midas List of top investors each year from 2014 to 2022.

Anton is currently a member of the boards of A Place for Mom, Articulate, Chess.com, Chronosphere, Hibob, Red Ventures, Squarespace, Tilting Point, and Vox Media. He is a board observer of AppsFlyer, BuzzFeed, Clear, and Pendo. Anton also serves as Trustee of Streetwise Partners, as well as Trustee of the Mount Sinai Hospital System and the University of Virginia Endowment.

Prior to joining General Atlantic, Anton was an investment banker at Morgan Stanley, where he focused on the technology sector. Anton attended the McIntire School of Commerce at the University of Virginia, where he received a BS in Commerce with a concentration in Finance & Management Information Systems and a minor in Computer Science. He received his MBA from Columbia Business School.
 Global Head Citi Private Bank Global Head Citi Private Bank Ida Liu is the Global Head of Citi Private Bank and a member of the Citi Global Wealth Leadership team. Ida leads the Private Banking activities in 52 offices across 20 countries and delivers wealth management solutions to ultra-high net worth families and their businesses globally. Before becoming the Global Head, she was the Head of Citi Private Bank North America and held numerous other leadership roles.

Ida created Citi Private Bank’s North America Asian Clients Group, and she started her career at Citi by launching and heading the Fashion, Retail and Entertainment Group. Before joining Citi, Ida was at Vivienne Tam, a women’s wear design house, where she was Global Head of Sales, Marketing, Public Relations and Business Development. Prior to this, Ida spent seven years in investment banking with Merrill Lynch’s mergers and acquisitions and technology, media and telecommunications investment banking groups in New York and Hong Kong. She started her career in mergers and acquisitions at BT Wolfensohn (now Deutsche Bank).

Ida has received many industry accolades including Barron’s 10 Most Influential Women in Wealth Management, Barron’s 100 Most Influential Women in U.S. Finance, Crain’s Notable Women on Wall Street and American Banker’s 25 Most Powerful Women in Finance. Additionally, Ida is a Young Global Leader (YGL) of the World Economic Forum, a member of The Committee of 100 (C100) and Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO). Ida serves on the UCLA Health Advisory Board as well as the Asia Society Board of Trustees.

Ida holds a BA with honors from Wellesley College and an MBA from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. She is fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Spanish and conversant in Russian. CEO Apollo Global Management CEO Apollo Global Management Marc Rowan is Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Apollo. He currently serves on the board of directors of Apollo Global Management, Inc., Athene Holding Ltd. and Athora Holding Ltd. Currently, Marc is Chair of the Board of Advisors of the Wharton School and a member of the University of Pennsylvania’s Board of Trustees. In addition, he is involved in public policy and is an initial funder and contributor to the development of the Penn Wharton Budget Model, a nonpartisan research initiative which provides analysis of public policy’s fiscal impact.

An active philanthropist, Marc is a founding member and Chair of Youth Renewal Fund and Vice Chair of Darca, Israel’s top educational network operating 40 schools with over 22,000 students throughout Israel’s most diverse and under-served communities. He also serves on the board of OpenDor Media, a digital media company centered on engaging Jewish and Israel content. Marc is an Executive Committee member of the Civil Society Fellowship, a partnership of ADL and the Aspen Institute, designed to empower the next generation of community leaders and problem solvers from across the political spectrum. He also serves on the boards of several technology-oriented venture companies.

Marc graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business with a BS and an MBA in Finance. Founder Capital Allocators Founder Capital Allocators Ted Seides, CFA is the founder of Capital Allocators, a platform that includes podcasts, investing, gatherings, and advisory.

He launched the Capital Allocators podcast in 2017. The show reached 15 million downloads in April 2023 and was recognized as the top institutional investing podcast.

Ted previously worked under David Swensen at the Yale Investments Office, invested directly at three of Yale’s managers, co-founded multi-billion alternative investment firm Protégé Partners, and made a famous bet with Warren Buffett.

He graduated Cum Laude from Yale University and received an MBA from Harvard Business School. Philanthropist, Cofounder & CEO SohoMuse Philanthropist, Cofounder & CEO SohoMuse Consuelo Vanderbilt is a 7th generation heiress to American railroad and shipping tycoon Cornelius Vanderbilt, a philanthropist, and the co-founder and CEO of SohoMuse, a vertical social network for the creative industry. She also sits on the board of the Vanderbilt Museum and Relevance Ventures. President and Head of Private Equity, Americas GIC President and Head of Private Equity, Americas GIC Mr. Wilmes is the President, Americas, at GIC. He is also the Head of Private Equity, Americas, and of GIC’s San Francisco office. Before joining the firm, Mr. Wilmes was a Director at Friedman Fleischer & Lowe and at Centre Partners. Mr. Wilmes began his career in the Merchant Banking Division of Morgan Stanley & Co.

Mr. Wilmes has served as a Director of several businesses, including UKG, Ultimate Software, Ancestry, Multiplan, Kronos, HUB International, PetSmart / Chewy, and American Seafoods.

Mr. Wilmes holds a B.A., magna cum laude, in Economics from Williams College.  
 Pier 60, 60 Chelsea Piers, New York, NY 10011 STAY IN THE KNOW Receive Updates For This Event  Set against a backdrop of national economic anxiety, the Forbes Iconoclast Summit convened some of the most recognizable names in finance, technology and culture for conversations on where markets, digital assets and consumer trends could head next.  Don’t miss your chance to attend one of our upcoming virtual or in-person events! Get In Touch We'd love to hear from you. Here's how you can reach us.
 General Inquiries Forbes Iconoclast Team Sponsorship Inquiries Leann Bonanno Group Vice President, ForbesLive 
						Get the latest Forbes updates and relevant offers about Forbes' products and services by sharing your email with us.					 
							Get the latest Forbes updates and relevant offers about Forbes' products and services by sharing your email with us.						 By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Service. For more information about how we use your data, see our Privacy Statement. © 2023 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights reserved. 



 



 To better personalize your experience, please fill the form below:
							    