Shares of United Natural Foods (NYSE: UNFI) were up 12% this week as of Friday's close, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence, following another notable insider share purchase on the heels of the company's recent post-earnings drop. According to an SEC filing dated Tuesday, United Natural Foods CFO John Howard bought 5,490 shares of the company at around $13.68 per share on Oct. 5 -- a roughly $75,000 purchase. That move brought Howard's current stake to 141,790 shares, worth just under $2.2 million as of this writing. Of note, Howard's buy came a day after a roughly $150,000 purchase of 11,265 shares by United Natural Foods CEO James Douglas on Oct. 4. The timing of the buys is no coincidence; shares of United Natural Foods plunged nearly 25% during the final week of September as investors lamented the company's disappointing fiscal fourth-quarter results and conservative forward guidance. At the time, Douglas blamed higher costs related to an extended effort to modernize and unify the company's technology and network platforms. That effort was repeatedly slowed in recent years by the pandemic, supply chain issues, and rising inflation. The market is naturally encouraged by the recent insider purchases, of course, as they're widely viewed as an indication that management views United Natural Foods' recent pullback as a buying opportunity. If the company's initiatives to modernize its technology stack are finally bearing fruit -- and if operational improvements are soon to follow -- these insider buys could look like brilliant moves as the stock rebounds. 10 stocks we like better than United Natural FoodsWhen our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.* They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and United Natural Foods wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys. See the 10 stocks  *Stock Advisor returns as of October 13, 2023  Steve Symington has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Paid Post: Content produced by Motley Fool. The Globe and Mail was not involved, and material was not reviewed prior to publication. All market data (will open in new tab) is provided by Barchart Solutions. Copyright © 2024. Information is provided 'as is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice. For exchange delays and terms of use, please read disclaimer (will open in new tab). © Copyright 2024 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. Andrew Saunders, President and CEO