


Oct. 6 (UPI) -- The U.S. Postal Service on Friday filed notice with its regulators to raise prices by about 2% for 2024.
The new rate proposals sent to the Postal Regulatory Commission include a 2-cent increase for the First-Class Mail Forever stamp, from 66 cents to 68 cents.
Advertisement
Citing "inflationary pressures on operating expenses," the Postal Service said in a statement that the price increases are needed for future financial stability and because "the effects of a previously defective pricing model are still being felt."
The U.S. post office is an independent federal service that is mandated to be self-financing. It typically receives no tax money.
Related
Postal Service reveals Forever stamp honoring late civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis
USPS to release 'Peanuts' stamps for Charles M. Schulz's 100th birthday
U.S. Postal Service moves ahead with new mail truck purchases, including EVs
The proposed changes first would have to be approved by Postal Service governors.
Under the USPS proposal, the changes would mean that a 1-ounce letter that now costs 66 cents to mail would cost 68 cents. Letters up to 1 ounce that now cost 63 cents to mail would cost 64 cents, if the changes are approved.
Domestic postcard mailings would rise to 53 cents; international postcards would cost $1.55 to send. And an international letter that now costs $1.50 to mail would cost a nickel more next year if the proposed changes take effect.
Advertisement
According to Friday's statement, the Postal Service also is requesting price adjustments for its so-called Special Services products, which include Certified Mail, post office box rental fees, money order fees and the cost of postal insurance.
The Postal Regulatory Commission will review the proposal before any changes can be made.
The complete Postal Service price filing, with prices for its products, is posted online.





Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Democratic convention opens in Chicago with President Joe Biden scheduled to speak
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago, President Joe Biden -- who topped the Democratic ticket last month -- will take the stage Monday night to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
GM announces it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried employees
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- General Motors announced on Monday that it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried workers around the world in its software and global division.






 Oct. 6 (UPI) -- The U.S. Postal Service on Friday filed notice with its regulators to raise prices by about 2% for 2024. The new rate proposals sent to the Postal Regulatory Commission include a 2-cent increase for the First-Class Mail Forever stamp, from 66 cents to 68 cents.
Advertisement Citing "inflationary pressures on operating expenses," the Postal Service said in a statement that the price increases are needed for future financial stability and because "the effects of a previously defective pricing model are still being felt." The U.S. post office is an independent federal service that is mandated to be self-financing. It typically receives no tax money.
Related
Postal Service reveals Forever stamp honoring late civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis
USPS to release 'Peanuts' stamps for Charles M. Schulz's 100th birthday
U.S. Postal Service moves ahead with new mail truck purchases, including EVs The proposed changes first would have to be approved by Postal Service governors. Under the USPS proposal, the changes would mean that a 1-ounce letter that now costs 66 cents to mail would cost 68 cents. Letters up to 1 ounce that now cost 63 cents to mail would cost 64 cents, if the changes are approved. Domestic postcard mailings would rise to 53 cents; international postcards would cost $1.55 to send. And an international letter that now costs $1.50 to mail would cost a nickel more next year if the proposed changes take effect.
Advertisement According to Friday's statement, the Postal Service also is requesting price adjustments for its so-called Special Services products, which include Certified Mail, post office box rental fees, money order fees and the cost of postal insurance. The Postal Regulatory Commission will review the proposal before any changes can be made. The complete Postal Service price filing, with prices for its products, is posted online.