
				This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them.
				Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
			 Routes is part of the Informa Markets Division of Informa PLC 



 
Menu Navigation:
 Dublin Airport 
Profile Sections:
 
Posted 20/06/2023 10:09
 
Almost 3.5 million customers carried on the route since 1998 on over 20,000 flights
 DUBLIN, June 20, 2023 – United Airlines is marking the 25th anniversary of its nonstop service between Dublin Airport and New York/Newark. Since its launch in June 1998, the airline has carried almost 3.5 million customers on over 20,000 flights on that route. Today, United operates daily year-round nonstop flights from Dublin Airport to New York/Newark and Washington D.C., as well as seasonal nonstop flights from Dublin to Chicago.   “For a quarter of a century now, United has connected Dublin with the United States, offering our customers in Ireland nonstop connections to the New York metropolis and the U.S. East Coast, as well as an unrivalled network of onward connections from our New York/Newark hub to over 100 destinations across the Americas.”, said Martina Coogan, Head of Corporate Sales U.K. and Ireland, United Airlines. “With such an important relationship between Ireland the United States, this route demonstrates the importance of bringing families and businesses together across the Atlantic.”  “I am delighted to congratulate United Airlines on reaching the 25th anniversary of operating non-stop flights between Dublin Airport and New York/Newark,” said Kenny Jacobs, CEO of daa. “We are proud to have been a part of United's journey since 1998, and we value our strong partnership. Over the years, we have witnessed United's route network expand, with the addition of routes to Washington and Chicago. We remain committed to working closely with United Airlines to further enhance passenger numbers and ensure continued success.  “Our pre-clearance facilities at Dublin Airport offer passengers a seamless travel experience, saving valuable time upon arrival in the U.S. We extend our gratitude to United's loyal customers and the travel trade community across Ireland for their ongoing support.” 
			“has published Dublin Airport Welcomed 3.4m Passengers In July”
		 VP - Aviation Business Development 
View Bio
 Chief Commercial and Development Officer 
View Bio
 Head of Airline and Partner Marketing 
View Bio
 
View all
 



 
Copyright © 2024. All rights reserved. Informa Markets, a trading division of Informa PLC.
