If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on June 25, 2023
 
By: David Chang, ChFC®, CLU®
 Writer, Consultant  KEY POINTS Pets are more than just animals, they are family members. That's why they deserve the best care possible, even when they get sick or hurt. But veterinary care bills can be very expensive, and not everyone has the means to pay for them out of pocket. That's where pet insurance comes in. Pet insurance can help cover the cost of unexpected vet bills, so you can rest easy knowing that your furry friend will always have access to the medical care they need. But is pet insurance at Costco a good option? Costco partners with a pet insurance provider called Figo to offer pet insurance to its members. Figo is a well-established pet insurance company that has been around since 2012. One of the biggest pros of getting pet insurance at Costco is the cost. Costco members can save up to 15% on their pet insurance premiums. Executive Members also get the $15 enrollment fee waived.


 Figo offers several plans for its members, including common illnesses, accidents and emergencies, wellness and preventive care, and more. This means that pet owners can choose the plan that best fits their budget and their pet's needs. One of Figo's perks is its Pet Cloud Live Vet feature. Members get free 24/7 direct access to a licensed veterinarian. Pet owners can also use the app to connect with other pet owners, find pet parks, pet daycare centers, keep track of a pet's medical records, and more. Figo states that most claims close in just 2.6 working days. Figo is also one of the few pet insurers with a 100% reimbursement option. Most plans cap coverage at 90%. Figo will reimburse 100% of your eligible expenses once you meet your deductible and up to your annual benefit.




 The cost of pet insurance depends on many variables, such as the type of pet, breed, sex, age, location, annual coverage limit, and the deductible. Average premium costs can vary from $20 to $50 a month. For a 12-week female puppy, here are the costs for the different plans that Figo offers. Costco members get an additional 15% from these prices according to a quote: MOST POPULAR PLAN: $47.52 /month Figo pays 80% of approved vet medical costs up to $10,000 per year after you pay a $250 deductible. HIGHER COVERAGE: $53.61 /month Figo pays 90% of approved vet medical costs with no annual coverage cap after you pay a $500 deductible. VALUE PLUS: $17.88 /month Figo pays 70% of approved vet medical costs up to $5,000 per year after you pay a $750 deductible. Figo also offers customized plans based on your budget. In addition, Figo offers Powerup Plans that cover vet exam fees and routine wellness coverage. Vet Exam Fees: An additional $3.65/mo. Coverage for vet exam fees for accidents and illnesses, including telehealth consultations. Does not provide coverage for annual wellness exams or preventive care. Wellness: An additional $9.50/mo. Routine care coverage, including dental, can be added to any plan to help pay for vaccinations, spay/neuter, bloodwork, heartworm preventive, and more. Coverage amounts based on benefit schedule. Members can also get a 5% discount when adding multiple pets. While Figo pet insurance has much to offer pet owners seeking coverage for their furry friends, it's important to note that the coverage is limited to only cats and dogs. Unfortunately, this means that other types of pets, such as birds, hamsters, or reptiles, will not be covered under this insurer. Additionally, Figo, like all pet insurance companies, has some exclusions and limitations in its coverage, so it's important to read the fine print and understand exactly what is and isn't covered. Despite these drawbacks, Figo's comprehensive plans for cats and dogs are impressive, as it offers accident and illness coverage, as well as routine care coverage options. Figo also has an easy-to-use app for submitting claims and accessing vital information on your pet's health. Overall, Figo provides excellent coverage, but pet owners of non-traditional pets should seek coverage elsewhere. Overall, getting pet insurance at Costco can be a good option for pet owners who want affordable coverage with a reputable provider. The discounts and coverage options offered by Figo can make pet insurance more accessible for many families. However, it's important to weigh the pros and cons before making a decision and to do your research to ensure that you're getting the best coverage possible for your furry friend. By investing in pet insurance, you can give your pet the care they deserve without sacrificing your financial stability. 
David S. Chang, ChFC®, CLU® is an award-winning entrepreneur and financial planner with over two decades of experience in the personal finance space. He is a graduate of West Point and a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army National Guard. He has an MBA from the UCLA Anderson School of Management.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.