KANSAS CITY, Mo. – Finally, there’s a fresh angle for Chris Jones. The dominant Kansas City Chiefs defensive tackle, one of the NFL’s premier inside pass-rushers, can now add “playoff sacks” to his resume. Jones collected two of Kansas City’s five sacks of Joe Burrow in the AFC Championship Game, ending a playoff drought that had extended for 13 postseason games. “I think you guys blow it out of proportion,” Jones said during his postgame news conference. “It doesn’t really matter to me, but I’m glad that you guys can have a story that Chris Jones finally got a sack.” Whatever, dude. It matters more to the Chiefs, particularly when considering that Jones’ second sack on Sunday came on a third down in the final minute to extinguish a drive and force the punt that set up the game-winning field goal. NFL STATS CENTRAL: The latest NFL scores, schedules, odds, stats and more. “He set the tone,” defensive end Frank Clark said. “He finished the game. Christopher Jones. He did his thing. Chris Jones – the most unstoppable man in football.” Jones, 28, is the only D-tackle since 1992 with multiple 15-sack seasons. He may downplay the distinction of getting his first career playoff sacks, mindful that with the challenge of facing double-team blocking schemes, sacks are not always a clear indicator of a lineman’s effectiveness. Still, Jones, a seventh-year pro, wouldn’t downplay the impact of his huge performance in the contest that sent the Chiefs back to the Super Bowl. In addition to the two sacks, Jones had five quarterback hits and three tackles for losses. OPINION:'The most pumped up I’ve seen them': Chiefs get last word WHAT WE LEARNED:Top seeds, QB history in Super Bowl 57 WINNERS, LOSERS:Patrick Mahomes toughs out win, Eagles thrive on ground “I think I planned for this game – my whole offseason was dedicated to this game,” said Jones. “I missed a few big plays last year (in the AFC title game loss to the Bengals). So, (last) offseason, I dedicated my whole offseason to making sure that when that moment calls for me specifically, that I’ll answer the call.”