Processing.... Christina Mee has been named vice president of mission services at Insight Technology Solutions, where she brings two decades of federal civilian and defense market experience. Mee will oversee business expansion initiatives in strategic planning and communications, program management and cybersecurity, Insight said Tuesday in a LinkedIn post. Most recently, she served as vice president of federal civilian programs at Amyx, a systems integrator and cybersecurity company acquired by Tetra Tech (Nasdaq: TTEK) in January. She previously managed communications for the federal business at Savvee Consulting in VP role. Her career with the Chantilly, Virginia-based IT consultancy spans nearly 11 years. Earlier in her career, Mee worked as a broadcast journalist at the U.S. Army and served in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan from 2005 to 2006. Kristen McLeod, most recently senior vice president of finance and accounting and controller at Calibre Systems, has assumed the roles of executive VP and chief financial officer at the Alexandria, Virginia-based management consulting and digital transformation company. In this capacity, she will serve as a corporate officer and fiscal strategist and continue to offer insights Tara Martin, former vice president at L3Harris Technologies (NYSE: LHX), was appointed senior VP of business development at the national security and innovative solutions business of CACI International (NYSE: CACI), according to her LinkedIn announcement. She brings to the role years-long experience in business development, having previously served as VP of business development at L3Harris’ Julie Van Leunen, formerly chief human resources officer at Serco, has been named senior vice president of talent and workforce strategy at ASRC Federal, according to her LinkedIn post. She brings to the role over a decade of experience in HR compliance, talent acquisition and management, HR operations and transformation and employee benefits and experience. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here