MESA, Ariz., Aug.  29, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nxu Inc., (NASDAQ: NXU) (“Nxu”, “the Company”), a domestic technology company creating energy storage and charging solutions for the infrastructure we need to power our electrified future, is pleased to welcome Hilary Taylor, who joins the Company as Senior Director of Engineering – Charging. Taylor, one of Insider’s Top 14 Power Players of the Electric Car Charging Business, has a decade of experience working with OEMs from around the world to accelerate EV adoption. “Hilary brings a wealth of experience, knowledge and passion for the EV charging space, sharing our ambitious mission of taking on big, complex challenges with technology that makes a lasting impact,” said Nxu Founder, Chairman and CEO Mark Hanchett. “Her leadership and technical expertise will make an immediate impact as we prioritize our charging infrastructure product development to make electrification viable on the critical Interstate 10 corridor between Phoenix and Los Angeles.” Taylor, who holds a degree in electrical engineering from The Georgia Institute of Technology, was previously director of engineering at SparkCharge. In her role at Nxu, Taylor will lead charging product design, engineering and development. “I see a unique blend of passion, purpose and potential at Nxu,” said Taylor. “I'm grateful for the opportunity to lead such a talented team as we work to launch EV charging solutions that will surely shape the future of the charging domain." About Nxu, Inc. Nxu, Inc. is a domestic technology company leveraging its intellectual property and innovations to support e-Mobility and energy storage solutions. Driving the energy future, Nxu is developing an ecosystem of industry-leading grid level energy storage solutions, charging infrastructure and over-air cloud management – encompassed by Nxu’s seamless subscription-based models. For more information, visit www.nxuenergy.com.
		  Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future areas of focus and expectations for our business. These forward-looking statements are based on our current assumptions, expectations and beliefs and involve substantial risks and uncertainties that may cause results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other things, Nxu’s expectations about its long term growth strategy, future growth trajectory, revenue and operations; Nxu’s technology and alignment with broader trends in the EV market; opportunities presented by electrification; beliefs about the general strength, weakness or health of Nxu’s business; and beliefs about current or future trends in EV battery materials or other markets and the impact of these trends on Nxu’s business. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is included in filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time, including our most recent report on Form 10-K, particularly under the heading “Risk Factors.” Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or on the SEC Filings section of our Investor Relations website at www.nxuenergy.com. All forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information currently available to us, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.  CONTACT: Media ContactAmy O’Harainfo@nxuenergy.com Investor ContactNxu, Inc. Investors@nxuenergy.com     Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks