Editions: En/lifestyle/tv-shows The 'Euphoria' actress still struggles with online trolls to this day The level of talented artists who jump started their careers from HBO's 'Euphoria' is truly remarkable but some might be distracted by the show's hard R rating. People who don't pay too much attention to the actual acting of this show can easily be seduced by the many beautiful faces and bodies that the show also has. Hands down, the biggest phenomenon coming from 'Euphoria' was actress Sydney Sweeney, who plays Cassie Howard in the show and displayed nudity in some scenes. People decided to keep those images in their heads while also ignoring the incredible acting she offered through her performance. We are not only talking about one of the most stunning actresses in the world but an incredibly skilled performer as well.  But it often happens that artists who are the full package like Sweeney, are also the most harassed on social media. In Sweeney's case, she has been criticized since she was a teenager due to her early physical development. From that moment forward, Sweeney started struggling with mental health issues that affect her to this day. Those nude scenes from 'Euphoria' leaked online and trolls started tagging her family members. Also, she has been constantly trolled for her looks in that series and she has done efforts to respond to these trolls. Despite this harassment, Sydney Sweeney is extremely proud of her work in 'Euphoria'. Currently, she stars in another hit HBO series called 'White Lotus'.  In recent weeks, Sweeney has learned to take the best possible advantage or her beauty and her photogenic skills. She recently spoke to The Sun for a profile and said this: "I had boobs before other girls, and I felt ostracized for it. I have big boobs, I'm blond and that's all I have. My cousins don't need that. It's completely disgusting and unfair. You have a character that goes through the scrutiny of being a sexualized person at school and then an audience that does the same thing. I think it's ridiculous. I'm an artist, I play characters. It makes me want to play characters that piss people off more." ©  Unidad Editorial Información Deportiva, S.L.U. All rights reserved. Follow us