Student Health Services is available to all UNG students who are currently enrolled and have paid the mandatory health fee. Students from any campus may use the services of either the Dahlonega or Gainesville Student Health Centers.  Contact your preferred clinic to make an appointment. 
Services & Pricing 
Women's & Men's Health Clinic 
Student Health Forms 
After-Hours Help & Resources 
 Log in to our new patient portal to do the following: Do not schedule physicals, labs or vaccines only visits through the portal. If unable to access patient portal, contact us. If you are having an emergency, call 911. Monday - Thursday: 8 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.(Closed from 12:30 – 1:30 p.m.) Friday: 8 a.m. – 3 p.m.(Closed from 12:30 – 1:30 p.m.) Uwill offers students free immediate access to teletherapy, a direct crisis connection, and wellness programming through its easy to use online platform  To schedule teletherapy:  Uwill also provides students free access to on-demand wellness programming through its easy to use online platform. Relax and recharge your mind and body with a wide range of wellness such as yoga, meditation, mindfulness, and more!  In the event you suffer an illness or injury that requires you to miss class, student health will provide you with discharge paperwork that provides specific discharge instructions regarding absence and return to class. We do not fill out disability paperwork or paperwork for employment. The student can request a copy of their medical record to take to their Primary Care Provider in the event specialized care is needed. © 2024 The University System of Georgia and the University of North Georgia. UNG follows the section 508 Standards and WCAG 2.0 for web accessibility. If you require this content in another format, please send an email to the ADA Coordinator. Use of military-themed imagery does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Department of Defense. At the University of North Georgia, we deeply value and uphold the cherished right of every American to freely express themselves. It is a hallmark of our history, our tradition, and permeates our culture. As a distinguished Senior Military College, with a legacy spanning over 150 years, we take great pride in our role of cultivating leaders who tirelessly defend these fundamental freedoms for all citizens.  The legacy of our graduates in this regard is second to none. As campus leaders, our primary responsibility is to cultivate an academic environment that ensures this exchange of ideas and the safety of our community. Across all five campuses, we are committed to fostering a welcoming atmosphere where individuals feel empowered to freely express themselves and engage in exploration and learning. However, it is essential that these rights are exercised in a manner that upholds our academic mission, preserves the safety of all, and is in accordance with our institutional policies, without unlawful behavior. This means breaking the law, harassment, intimidation, trespassing, violence, and other criminal acts will not be tolerated at the University of North Georgia. Together, let's uphold the principles of respect, understanding, and civility as we equip our students to walk toward their purpose. Bold Forward!