Ohio State Buckeyes 2024 quarterback commit Air Noland lit it up in Los Angeles at the Elite 11 Finals, which featured some of the premier high school signal-callers from across the country. The three-day event wrapped up Friday and, though Noland didn't achieve his goal of winning MVP — an honor that was given to Alabama commit Julian Sayin — he said the experience allowed him to "connect with the best of the best." "It’s been great," Noland said. "We’ve been creating unforgettable memories, and it’s something I’ve been dreaming about as a kid. So, to be able to come out here in Los Angeles and spin it is pretty amazing." On3's Charles Power ranked Noland fifth out of the 20 quarterbacks that competed, trailing Sayin and commits Georgia's Dylan Raiola, Penn State's Ethan Grunkemeyer and Florida State's Luke Kromenhoek. Noland thought he showed velocity and that his arm strength is "still there." Power said that Noland was one of the "most accurate" and "steady passers" across the first two days of workouts. "He showed impressive touch and feel in drill work. Noland threw the ball on time and showed the ability to layer his passes," Power wrote. "He parlayed that showing into a strong pro day session on Day 2 – one that was among the best we saw from the group. Noland had a few misfires early on in 7-on-7 play but rebounded to finish strong, completing seven straight passes. While many others in the group have remaining questions about their play on Friday nights (a key factor in evaluations), Noland remains a known commodity and put his best foot forward at the Elite 11 Finals." Noland led Langston Hughes High School to a Georgia 6A state championship victory last year, throwing for 4,095 yards, 55 touchdowns — one shy of the single-season state record — and only four interceptions. Despite the proven success and a career that will likely go down as one of the best of any quarterback in Peach State history, the 6-2, 197-pound gunslinger still has things he wants to improve on in his quest to win back-to-back state titles. "Just making sure I'm strengthening my hips and getting great hip mobility on my throws and making sure that I’m using my hips more," Noland said. "Of course I have a heck of an arm, but I want to make sure I’m increasing my hip velocity and getting my hips straight." Be sure to stay locked into BuckeyesNow all the time! Join the BuckeyesNow community! Subscribe to the BuckeyesNow YouTube channel You can follow Casey Smith on Twitter @casey_smith2419 Follow BuckeyesNow on Twitter: @BuckeyesNow_FN Follow BuckeyesNow on Instagram: @BuckeyesNow_FN Like and follow BuckeyesNow on Facebook