In his last game, at the end of the Twins' 1996 spring training, Kirby Puckett faced Atlanta ace Greg Maddux, smacked a single and yelled "Picasso!" If he were alive today, Puckett would be googling "Influential Spanish artists" to find the appropriate praise for Sonny Gray. If you never saw Maddux pitch in his prime, you missed baseball genius in motion. Maddux compensated for his lack of raw velocity by placing a variety of pitches, all of which moved like Frisbees, wherever he wanted them. In April 2023, Gray pitched like Maddux at his best, and there is no greater compliment that can be paid to a modern-day pitcher who relies on guile and movement. Sunday at Target Field, Gray pitched six innings, giving up one run, in the Twins' 8-4 victory over the Royals. He is 4-0 with a baseball-best ERA of 0.77, tying Ervin Santana in 2017 for the lowest ERA in April in Twins history. He became the first pitcher ever to go 9-0 in nine consecutive starts against the Royals. Gray has not given up a home run this season, in part because he throws six pitches — a curve, cutter, sinker, four-seam fastball, slider and changeup, in order of preference. All of his results and some of his pitches this April have been reminiscent of Maddux, which is unintentional. "No, he's not an influence," Gray said. "Great pitcher, though." Twins pitching coach Pete Maki noted that Maddux relied heavily on his two-seam fastball and a devastating changeup. Gray, he said, "has three different types of spin varieties," and, like Maddux, can throw a two-seam fastball at the hip of a lefthanded hitter and make it belatedly curl into the strike zone. Gray defies two tenets of traditional baseball thinking. At 5-10, he is a relatively short righthander who lacks dominant velocity — a combination of red flags for old-school scouts — and he doesn't need to set up his breaking pitches by using his fastball early and often. His command of his curve gives him a pitch that can get him ahead in the count, or get an out early in the count, without requiring maximum velocity. His crooked pitches have prevented crooked numbers on the scoreboard — he has given up only three runs all season, never more than one in a game. Gray is 4-0, halfway to his victory total last year. "I think the biggest takeaway is the wins," he said. "For me, that's the only thing that truly matters, is that when I start a game, the team wins." In his first career start against the Royals, in 2014, he gave up a fifth-inning home run to Raul Ibanez. He has not given up a home run to Kansas City in 71 innings since. By the numbers: Sonny Gray's April "I don't know if anyone in baseball could have had a much better month than what Sonny Gray just gave us," Twins manager Rocco Baldelli said. "I don't know what goes into that 'pitcher of the month' deal that they give away, but that looks like a pitcher of the month performance if I've ever seen one." Gray didn't give up a run on Sunday until the Twins led 8-0. Baldelli praised "the unwavering nature of the way his outings have gone. I don't care who you are, over the course of a month to just go out there and most of the time overwhelm the outing, dominate the outing — but when it's not going perfectly, he's found every possible way to get through the outings that haven't been perfect. "He has not let up. He has bent, because you have to bend at times, but he has not broken at any point this year, in any outing, regardless of how he's throwing the ball, how he's feeling, the strike zone, which pitches are working and which aren't. He has a lot of different ways to get outs and he's used them all over the course of this month, and it's been impressive." For those of us who hung on Maddux's every pitch, it's also been nostalgic. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.