“I’m heading out back,” Keirstie Carducci said to her husband, Lee Carducci. That was the phrase that expanded into a full-time job of taking care of wildlife from her backyard. Out-Back Wildlife Rehab Center was officially founded in 2003, but Keirstie has taken on the role of wildlife rehabilitator for over 40 years. Keirstie Carducci, 61, of Ottawa Lake, always had an affinity for animals. “I was the neighborhood kid that everyone brought them to,” she said. She still is. Carducci officially started in the field by fostering a couple animals per year for Michigan’s Humane Society. Last year, her organization, Out-Back Wildlife Rehab Center, took in 719 animals. Online, the operating hours are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., but most days Carducci receives calls as early as 5:30 a.m. and doesn't expect to eat dinner before 11 p.m. Out-Back takes in fawns, woodchucks, squirrels, chipmunks, mice, rats, moles, voles, shrews and bunnies. Her collection of animals is not limited to her rescues, but her 10-acre property in Ottawa Lake in Monroe County is also home to more than 150 domesticated animals. To name a few, two geese (Remmi and Gimpy), who are the “babysitters” of Carducci’s animal kingdom, 45 cats and a 40-year-old donkey named Simon, whom she refers to as her “little old man.” Carducci speaks of the animals on her land like they are part of her family. “This is Delilah, Earnie’s girlfriend,” Carducci says, while introducing one of her chickens. “All chickens fight over her.” She treasures her Flemish Giant bunny, Clover, who was found in the dumpster at a dollar store. “He’s one of the best pets I’ve ever had,” she said. “Lenny too, of course,” referring to her turkey standing nearby. Lenny wandered into the Carduccis’ home a week after Thanksgiving last year and hasn’t left. “You really never get lonely,” Carducci said. Summertime brings an extra level of chaos in the Carducci home because it is squirrel and fawn birthing season. “It’s 18 hours a day, seven days a week,” Carducci said. Along with “200 phone calls every day.” Carducci works closely with the animal control officers and conservation officers that regulate her work, some of which attend her infamous Nacho Night at her home each year. "It makes it more worth it because we have their respect," Carducci said. "We're all working together to try to save these animals." The same can't be said with the state's involvement. Instead, it enforces regulations that are difficult to meet. "The state should train rehabilitators, but they dump it on us," Carducci said. "If we got to have a say in some of the decisions from the state level it would make things run a lot better." Carducci has had helpers in the past, but this year the state denied her helpers licensing, due to their distance from Ottawa Lake. "Shouldn't it be their decision if they want to drive here to help," Carducci said. Additionally, Carducci was told that if she wants helpers, she needs to train them herself, but she simply doesn’t have the time. “The state is so far removed from what we do with these animals,” Carducci said. Rehabilitators do not receive money from the state either, so the businesses are funded straight from owners’ pockets and donations. Perhaps Carducci's biggest help comes from her husband, Lee. He supports Out-Back by funding the animals' care as well as helping with stall and horse duties. “He never complains, no matter what I get in here or how much it costs,” Keirstie Carducci said. “He’s even taken up cooking.” Lee first heard about Keirstie when she was still working as an economic analyst at Chrysler. “She was the crazy lady on the 12th floor that had kittens under her desk,” Lee said. Keirstie said she “would like a little more freedom” to visit her daughter in Florida or go on a date with her husband, but the constant influx of animals prevents any sense of normalcy in her personal life. “It’s exhaustive, expensive and time-consuming, but nobody forced me to do this,” Keirstie Carducci said. “I do this ‘cause I love it.” Carducci’s love shines through as soon as she steps outside to see the animals. Her voice rings like a bell to the wildlife. “Hi, guys!” she repeats while making her way through her vast backyard. “This is the best job in the world,” she said. Injured wild animals in Michigan: What to do when you find a hurt deer, bird, rabbit This article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press: Out-Back Rehab Center in Michigan's Ottawa Lake rescues animals New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.