Jan. 6—Deaths in Colorado related to domestic violence jumped in 2021, according to a review board that classifies these fatalities. A new report from the Colorado Domestic Violence Fatality Review Board suggests abusers' access to guns and the COVID-19 pandemic likely contributed to the spike. But underlying patterns in predominantly female victims and male perpetrators persist. Ninety-one people died in 61 incidents in 2021, the highest number classified as domestic violence-related fatalities by the review board — chaired by Attorney General Phil Weiser — since its creation in 2016. Of those, 45 were the primary victims of the domestic violence identified, 32 were the perpetrators and 14 were collateral victims. Four were children. "Although no studies to date have addressed DVF (domestic violence fatality) rates during the pandemic, research indicates a significant increase in the incidence of nonfatal DV during the pandemic, and it is likely the factors contributing to this increase are also impacting DVF rates," says the report. The board recorded 63 domestic violence fatalities in 2020. However, the report acknowledges that factors such as the difficulty of in-person data collection and limitations of homicide investigations by police during the pandemic might mean local domestic violence fatality review boards did not record all deaths. Gunshots caused 81% of domestic violence fatalities in 2021, according to the report. It references the Mother's Day shooting in Colorado Springs when a man killed his girlfriend and five of her family members before turning the gun on himself. Access to guns by an abuser increases the likelihood of death by 1,000%, according to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. "This data reflects the dangers associated with DV perpetrators' access to firearms," says the report. Sign up for free: Springs AM Update Your morning rundown of the latest news from Colorado Springs and around the country overnight and the stories to follow throughout the day delivered to your inbox each evening. Sign Up View all of our newsletters. Success! Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter. View all of our newsletters. As a result, the board includes a recommendation for more investment in firearm relinquishment processes for domestic violence perpetrators. Eighty-eight percent of 2021 victims classified by the report were female, and 90% of perpetrators were male. Nine percent of cases had female perpetrators and male victims, while 2% involved female perpetrators and victims. This pattern reflects the overall trend that DV more broadly is a very gendered crime," says the report, but notes the data underscores "DV is an issue that crosses genders and needs to be addressed in all relationships." The fatality review board's classifications cast a net broader than deaths of people killed by their intimate partners to include people who have died "in the context of" domestic violence. Its reviews include collateral victims such as new partners, family members, law enforcement officers or bystanders killed by perpetrators of domestic violence, children killed by abusers in revenge against their victim and suicides of victims or perpetrators. Among the report's recommendations, the board supports creating a mechanism for law enforcement agencies to report domestic violence fatalities directly to the attorney general's office. While some data is collected from local domestic violence fatality review boards — the state report identifies four in Colorado — the board has to rely on publicly available sources such as media reports and arrest affidavits for data on deaths that have not been reviewed by a local board. The board also suggests better domestic violence training for judges. An investigation by The Gazette last fall found skepticism by judges of abuse allegations in custody cases sometimes led to children being placed in dangerous arrangements where abuse by a parent continued or even led to death. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.