Jason Kelce loves a good beer, and fans from around Philadelphia and New Jersey metro area will have another chance to see the All-Pro serving drinks. The Eagles just announced that Kelce will host his 3rd annual celebrity bartending event at the Ocean Drive (OD) on Wednesday, June 28 from 4-8 pm to raise funds for the Eagles Autism Foundation and Team 62. Be one of the Top 30 donors to Team 62 and receive VVIP access to the @newheightshow taping and Skip the Line access to the bartending event at The Ocean Drive on June 28th. The Top 30 donors will be pulled today at 5pm EST. Donate here: https://t.co/XMgwbm5N9q pic.twitter.com/7ICthTRbP5 — Eagles Autism Foundation (@eaglesautism) June 23, 2023 The OD is located at 3915 Landis Avenue, Sea Isle City, NJ 08243. Fans and supporters can donate to Jason’s Eagles Autism Challenge fundraising page by visiting http://haku.ly/team62. There will be a $10 cover charge at the door for all guests. Proceeds from the evening – which include cover charge, bartending tips, raffles, autographed items, and an exclusive Team 62 pinnie – will benefit the Eagles Autism Foundation. In addition to the celebrity bartending experience at the OD, Paddy’s Green will feature a family-friendly atmosphere from 4-6 pm with giveaways and activations. The inaugural event held in June 2021 raised $100,000 for the Eagles Autism Challenge, which included $50,000 in proceeds and a matching donation of $50,000 from Jason and his wife, Kylie. Story originally appeared on Eagles Wire Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend.