FOOD for Lane County is in dire need of volunteers as demand for food assistance continues to rise and the organization struggles to find staff for its Meals on Wheels program, a meal delivery service for homebound individuals. Meals on Wheels of Lane County served more than 1,200 people last year, relying on 56 volunteers a day to pull it off. On July 13 alone, FOOD for Lane County's Bailey Hill Road location delivered 457 meals. "This program is one of the most valuable things that we can do, besides shelter," said volunteer Laura Cole. Lately, FOOD for Lane County is having a hard time getting much-needed volunteer drivers. According to program manager Amber Friedman, the shortage comes as the organization has added more routes and regular volunteers take vacations. "Meals on Wheels is starving for volunteers," Cole said. The organization gets the meals delivered regardless of volunteer numbers, but it comes at a cost, said Amber Friedman, senior food programs manager. Staff have to turn their focus from receiving applications and onboarding to making deliveries themselves. "I was out delivering meals today because we didn't have enough drivers," Friedman said on July 13. "It just means that our staff doesn't have time to work on other things that are important, and it slows our ability to add new clients to the program." Besides having an impact on peoples' lives, volunteers often make friends with other drivers and the recipients along the delivery route. "We've developed relationships with the people that we deliver to. We go to birthday parties. We go see them in care facilities when they have to leave their home," said Cole, who has been delivering meals one day a week for two years. "The human contact is as important as the meals in some respects," she said. "We go to houses where people have a pet, and if they didn't have that they would be alone all the time. So our little 10-minute stop puts a twinkle in their eye." Driving for Meals on Wheels is unpaid and purely volunteer-based. A monthly mileage reimbursement is offered to drivers to help offset the cost of gas. Delivery shifts span from 90 minutes to 2.5 hours. Delivery drivers must be 18 years or older, possess a valid drivers license, pass a DHS background check and be able to get in and out of their vehicle 15-20 times per route. Other volunteer opportunities are available, including helping out at the GrassRoots Garden, packing produce boxes and mobile pantry distribution. More information on the Meals on Wheels program and other volunteer opportunities with FOOD for Lane County can be found at foodforlanecounty.org/volunteer/. Charles Gearing is a breaking news reporter for the Eugene Register-Guard. You may reach him at cgearing@gannett.com This article originally appeared on Register-Guard: FOOD for Lane County needs volunteer drivers for Meals on Wheels New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.