Man, that was a fun weekend of NFL playoff games, wasn’t it? And Monday night we get one more when Tom Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers host Dak Prescott and the Dallas Cowboys. Everything wasn’t perfect over the weekend, though. Lots of fans noticed how boring Al Michaels and Tony Dungy were during Saturday night’s thrilling come-from-behind victory by the Jaguars over the Los Angeles Chargers. They just lacked the energy all night, which was a shame because that game was an instant classic. Thankfully Al and Tony weren’t on the call for Sunday night’s Ravens-Bengals game because Cincinnati’s 98-yard, game-winning fumble return wouldn’t have been as fun with those guys breaking it down. Watch:Bengals fans celebrate as they watch Sam Hubbard's 'Fumble in the Jungle' return You know what is fun, though? This video: Man, that was a fun weekend of NFL playoff games, wasn’t it? And Monday night we get one more when Tom Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers host Dak Prescott and the Dallas Cowboys.Everything wasn’t perfect over the weekend, though. Lots of fans noticed how boring Al Michaels and Tony Dungy were during Saturday night’s thrilling come-from-behind victory by the Jaguars over the Los Angeles Chargers. They just lacked the energy all night, which was a shame because that game was an instant classic.Thankfully Al and Tony weren’t on the call for Sunday night’s Ravens-Bengals game because Cincinnati’s 98-yard, game-winning fumble return wouldn’t have been as fun with those guys breaking it down.You know what is fun, though? This video: I’ve watched it probably 10 times and can’t stop laughing each time. Twitter loved it. This is the funniest thing I've heard all week https://t.co/BCADwot4T0 — breathe, you'll be fine. (@MattLabucki) January 16, 2023 This is fantastic. https://t.co/dTZ14gW0Dy — Thomas Casale (@TheTomCasale) January 16, 2023 I think the criticism of last night’s broadcast has been a little extra, as the kids say, but this was quite funny. https://t.co/sLminDNzQk — Doug Taylor (@TrulyDougTaylor) January 16, 2023 This article originally appeared on Cincinnati Enquirer: Fake Al Michaels, Tony Dungy calling Bengals' fumble return is funny Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. A thrilling weekend of golf comes down to the wire for stars (and future stars)