"Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Dakota Johnson might have first gained popularity for her starring role in the Fifty Shades franchise, but her red carpet style has made her memorable. Even outfits she rocked a few years ago are still being talked about, like her dress for the Paris premiere of Fifty Shades Freed. She showed off her figure in a form-fitting scoop-neck white sequined gown with a low back. Dakota Johnson might have first gained popularity for her starring role in the Fifty Shades franchise, but her red carpet style has made her more than memorable these past few years. Even outfits she rocked a few years ago are still being talked about, like her dress for the Paris premiere of Fifty Shades Freed, the third and final film based off E. L James' romance trilogy. As she walked the carpet back in February 2018 with co-star Jamie Dornan, the brunette showed off her figure in a form-fitting scoop neck white sequined gown with a low back, which she paired with strappy silver heels, diamond rings and tiny jeweled earrings. To finish off the stunning yet simple look, she opted to pull her hair back into a low ponytail, with her brown bangs parted in the middle and loosely framing her face. She kept her makeup light and pink, except for a bold red lip that made her pale skin pop. When fans saw The Persuasion actress show up in the sleek look, the Internet comments gushed over how gorgeous she looked. "Dakota looks FABULOUS," one person commented on YouTube. "Dakota's dress is gorgeous," another added on a different clip. "So minimal and elegant at the same time!" a different follower said on Twitter. The Austin native has only continued to impress with her looks, thanks to her stylist Kate Young. In an interview with Vogue back in November 2021, Kate said that although Dakota's day-to-day outfits are "classic, minimal, elegant, with just a little bit of fashion for day," her evening outfits for big events and premieres are all about encompassing the opposite. "Dakota wants to be a disco ball," Kate told Vogue. "It's fun trying on clothes with her; it's not serious or stressful, and she humors me. . . I want her to look clean, modern and easy." With lots of projects on the horizon for Dakota, including Marvel's much-awaited Madame Web, we can't wait to see what her and her stylist throw together for all the red carpets to come. You Might Also Like Jennifer Garner Swears By This Retinol Eye Cream These New Kicks Will Help You Smash Your Cross-Training Goals New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.