


July 26, 2023

 DEME's Orion installation vessel (File image)  - Credit: DEME
 Offshore installation firm DEME Offshore said Tuesday it had installed the approximately 3,000 ton offshore substation for the Vineyard Wind 1 project - the first commercial-scale offshore wind farm in the United States. "The installation of the offshore substation, a first in the US, took place after months of preparation with collaboration and dedication of all partners involved in the construction of the Vineyard Wind offshore wind project, including skilled union labor from the Massachusetts Building Trades," DEME Offshore said. DEME Offshore used its flagship vessel, Orion, to install the Vineyard Wind 1 substation. (Click here for photos) The offshore substation serves to collect the generated electricity from the wind turbines and sends the power through an export cable and into the regional electricity grid. "DEME’s team continues the installation of the 62 wind turbines, a campaign that kicked off back in May 2023," DEME Offshore said.  Once completed, the 800 MW Vineyard wind farm will generate electricity for more than 400,000 homes and businesses in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts," DEME Offshore said. The installation of the first monopiles and transition pieces for the Vineyard Wind 1 project started in June 2023. A ceremonial groundbreaking ceremony was held to signal the start of construction at the Salem Offshore Wind Terminal in…  The Philippines and China accused each other on Monday of ramming vessels and performing dangerous maneuvers in the South China Sea…  Cadeler took delivery of the fifth and newest addition to its fleet – Wind Peak, the first of seven newbuilds for which Cadeler…  A new study examined the climate effect of the mandated reduction of sulfur in ship exhaust emissions globally since 2020…  Lack of visibility on spare parts means vessel operators are wasting money onboard and ashore, writes Gurinder Singh, Director of Solutions Engineering Say goodbye to scribbled handwriting, disjointed data sources and a huge administrative burden, and hello to simple mobile solutions. NAVTOR continues its drive to “make life easy” for vessel crews Cutting-edge performance & emissions monitoring solution by Chris-Marine to be showcased in Hamburg. Subscribe for Maritime Reporter E-News Maritime Reporter E-News is the maritime industry's largest circulation and most authoritative ENews Service, delivered to your Email five times per week  
© 1996-2024 Maritime Activity Reports, Inc. 
    