Advertisement      Reporter     Grid modernization is a topic as complex as the network of power systems and transmission lines stretching across New Mexico’s vast landscape. And the shift toward renewable energy will make the transformation even more dramatic as new infrastructure, equipment and ways of thinking change how power is generated, stored and used. A panel of energy experts delved deeply into the subject Wednesday for the legislative Water and Natural Resources Committee, explaining the interplay between renewable energy growth and the systems that deliver it. The one-way transmission of electricity from the utility to users is a model that soon will be as passé as rotary telephones. More homes and businesses will produce their own power, whether it’s with rooftop solar panels or electric vehicles, and will be able to store the surplus or send it back into the grid, the panelists said, describing this as a feature of the energy transition.  “We are in a situation where there is a transition to renewable energy that is happening very quickly,” said Jim DesJardins, executive director of the Renewable Energy Industries Association of New Mexico. The state Energy Transition Act is helping to drive the change, DesJardins said. He was referring to the 2019 law requiring renewable energy to make up half the power investor-owned utilities and electric cooperatives produce by 2030 and 80% by 2040. Both must achieve zero carbon emissions in the following decade. Sales of solar energy systems are expected to triple by 2030, DesJardins said. In the same period, the state’s collective solar energy capacity for homes and commercial users is projected to grow to 27 gigawatts, he said, adding it’s now roughly 2 gigawatts.  “That’s a humungous increase in seven years,” DesJardins said. Meanwhile, the number of electric vehicles on the road will grow exponentially in the coming decade, he added. Electric vehicles are forecast to make up half of worldwide car sales by 2035, according to a Goldman Sachs study. Not only will they cut pollution that’s bad for public health and the climate, but also their batteries can supplement electricity in the household. “Every one of those [vehicles] is an energy storage system on wheels,” DesJardins said. “Not only can you, of course, charge it, but you can discharge into your home.” Vehicle-to-grid is a new concept and would require the state Public Regulation Commission to make a rule, he said, and at the same time a pilot program should be launched to explore it. Public Service Company of New Mexico, which plans to invest  $344 million to modernize the grid statewide, had no representative at this hearing, but a couple of the speakers mentioned the utility’s plans and how users can both benefit from the upgraded grid and enhance it. Those seeking to create a community solar system will be able to form a microgrid, a small network of users whose supply source is linked to the larger grid but operates independently, said Abbas Akhil, a principal with Renewable Energy Ventures. This independent network allows a community to be self-sufficient and supply power to residents when the larger grid has an extended outage or is damaged, as was the case with last year’s big wildfires, Akhil said. It could also export surplus electricity to the main grid if it’s experiencing a power shortage, he said. “We call that ‘good citizens of the grid.’ ” The overarching goals of modernizing the grid are to make it more reliable, reduce energy costs, allow more diverse power sources to hook in and to make it more secure against cyberattacks, Akhil said. A couple of panelists reeled off lists of projects their companies are doing to improve the power supply and related infrastructure. An important endeavor is creating larger energy storage stations along the distribution networks, using lithium ion batteries to help consolidate individual power sources, said Seth Nelson, the development director with GridLiance, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Transmission. An estimated 800 megawatt hours of storage must be added per year for the state to build the energy capacity needed to reach its zero carbon goals by 2050, Nelson said.  “As the level of renewable resource development increases, the need for storage increases.” Strategically placing batteries along the grid will provide backup power during outages or when a substation is strained, Nelson said. Smart meters also will play a big part, aiding consumers in using power more efficiently and reducing their monthly bills. These meters can regulate the most effective times to increase or decrease power use, panelists said. For instance, in the middle of the day, when the sun is the most intense, solar energy production peaks, DesJardins said, adding “we’re hitting a point where there’s almost too much.” There are two basic options — curtail solar production or store the surplus energy, he said. The latter makes the most sense because late in the day, demand is at its highest, especially in the summer when people crank on their air conditioners after returning home from work, he said, so this would be the time to draw from an energy reserve. Akhil said most New Mexico homes have a “dumb meter” that spins in one direction and tells you how much power you’ve used. A smart meter can tell consumers when energy is the cheapest so they know the best time to increase use. “So smart meters are a very critical element of grid modernization,” Akhil said. Takeaways u Grid modernization will be necessary to accommodate the state’s transition to renewable energy, a panel of experts told the legislative Water and Natural Resources Committee. u Expanded energy storage, smart meters and different ways of thinking about power supply and delivery will be key in grid modernization. u Electric cars not only will cut emissions but also can act as power sources to supplement household electricity. Reporter   Advertisement Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Circulation Office Hours - 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist welcome email Stay informed of the latest local news by receiving emails as soon as news is posted online. Receive a list of headlines from the latest edition of The New Mexican in your inbox every morning. Contests and special offers from The Santa Fe New Mexican and advertising partners.  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.