Christian Petersen/Getty  Ja Morant has been suspended for a total of eight games after he allegedly displayed a gun on social media while at a club. The NBA announced its decision in a statement released on its website on Wednesday. "The discipline is in response to Morant's live streaming of a video on March 4 in which he is holding a firearm in an intoxicated state while visiting a Denver area nightclub," the league said of the Memphis Grizzlies point guard. Morant, 23, will be able to play again on Monday, March 20, against the Dallas Mavericks. RELATED: Memphis Grizzlies Star Ja Morant Reportedly Enters Counseling Program in Florida "Ja's conduct was irresponsible, reckless and potentially very dangerous," NBA Commissioner Adam Silver said in the release.  "It also has serious consequences given his enormous following and influence, particularly among young fans who look up to him." Continued Silver: "He has expressed sincere contrition and remorse for his behavior. Ja has also made it clear to me that he has learned from this incident and that he understands his obligations and responsibility to the Memphis Grizzlies and the broader NBA community extend well beyond his play on the court." After investigating the incident, the league office did not determine whether the gun belonged to Morant, if he brought it into the venue, or if he had it in his possession before or after the footage was captured. RELATED: NBA Star Ja Morant Will Not Face Charges After Gun Controversy at Colorado Club "The investigation also did not find that Morant possessed the gun while traveling with the team or in any NBA facility, and the Colorado authorities did not find sufficient cause to charge Morant with a crime," said the NBA. The suspensions came after Silver met with Morant at the NBA's New York office, along with other league heads including NBA Executive Vice President, Head of Basketball Operations Joe Dumars and NBPA Executive Director Tamika Tremaglio. A representative for Morant did not immediately respond to PEOPLE's request for comment. He was first suspended for two games immediately after the incident and later apologized for his behavior in a statement obtained by ESPN reporter Adrian Wojnarowski. RELATED VIDEO: Odell Beckham Jr. Removed from Flight After Police Say He 'Refused to Comply with Safety Protocol' "I take full responsibility for my actions last night," Morant said in the statement. "I'm sorry to my family, teammates, coaches, fans, partners, the city of Memphis and the entire Grizzlies organization for letting you down." "I'm going to take some time away to get help and work on learning better methods of dealing with stress and my overall well-being," he added. Morant reportedly entered a counseling program in Florida and there "remains no timetable for his return to active play," Wojnarowski posted on Twitter Monday. Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. All of this stems from an incident on March 3 where Morant started an Instagram Live hours after the Grizzlies' 113-97 loss to the Denver Nuggets. In the video, he appeared to be partying in a club shirtless and at one point appeared to hold up a handgun with his left hand while smiling. Following the release of the video, NBA spokesperson Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was "aware of a social media post" and was "investigating" the incident, per ESPN. The Glendale Police Department said they did not have probable cause to file charges against Morant. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.