Chiefs Check-in is our online newsletter at Chiefs Wire, running Monday-Friday mornings. Subscribe to get more Chiefs news delivered to your inbox every day. The Kansas City Chiefs are preparing for their final phase of offseason preparation ahead of training camp with organized team activities set to start this week. They will have most of their roster in the same place for a few days to stay fresh before the nearly two-month pause and should get in some much-needed practice ahead of a 2023 season wherein they hope to defend their newly won Super Bowl title. Check out all the most relevant Chiefs news for the morning of Monday, May 22nd: Latest in Chiefs news Top Chiefs news Felix Anudike-Uzomah’s agency produced an insightful video that took a look at the first-round edge rusher’s journey to the NFL draft and time spent in high school in the Kansas City area. Fans caught a brief glimpse of Chiefs second-round pick Rashee Rice in his uniform for the first time during the NFL’s rookie premiere. According to a poll taken after April’s draft, Kansas City hosts one of the league’s most skeptical fanbases. Free agent addition Drue Tranquill got some extra push from a teammate during a training session last week in a video posted to the Chiefs’ official Twitter account. Pro Football Focus projects that wide receiver Kadarius Toney is Kansas City’s most likely breakout candidate ahead of the 2023 season. Former Chief Breeland Speaks is a leading candidate to win the USFL’s Defensive Player of the Year award after an excellent season for the Michigan Panthers. Charles Goldman looked at the Chiefs’ depth on both sides of the ball ahead of OTAs this week, analyzing the team’s strengths and weaknesses. In case you missed it Two Chiefs legends teamed up to support the Kansas City Community Gardens’ Tomato Days event last week. Kansas City officially signed first-round pick Felix Anudike-Uzomah to his rookie contract on Friday, leaving just one player from their draft class unsigned. One NFL.com writer says that the Chiefs could have the most effective offense in the league after a recent breakdown of offseason projections after the draft. Commentator Jim Nantz compared the media coverage of Patrick Mahomes to that of Tiger Woods during his prime in the 2000s. Around the AFC West Denver Broncos news First-year Broncos head coach Sean Payton is bullish on the backfield that Denver has assembled as the team looks to bounce back in 2023. Las Vegas Raiders news News broke this weekend that the Raiders will hold joint practices with the Los Angeles Rams during training camp to prepare for the 2023 season. Los Angeles Chargers news Los Angeles’ rookie quarterback Max Duggan went out of his way to praise one of his college teammates that the Chargers drafted back in April. Around the NFL One NFL veteran told reporters that Jacksonville Jaguars receiver Calvin Ridley has the potential to be a top-five receiver in the league next season. Pittsburgh Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin broke down one of the New England Patriots’ most shrewd draft day moves in a recent interview. Browns Wire took a look at the life of legendary running back Jim Brown following news of his death that broke on Friday. Texans fans are set for an exciting season of football with quarterback C.J. Stroud and edge rusher Will Anderson Jr. ready to make an impact for Houston. Ravens linebacker Odafe Oweh had great things to say about Baltimore’s new linebackers coach, legendary pass rusher Chuck Smith. Story originally appeared on Chiefs Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there’s a possibility we see pro baseball players participating in the 2028 Summer Olympics, the Braves and Reds taking their game next year to the racetrack and make their picks for The Good, The Bad and The Uggla. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman.