Mission Local 
					Local news for a global city				 Sign up below to get Mission Local’s free newsletter, a daily digest of news you won’t find elsewhere.  Around 9:30 p.m. on Saturday, four people gathered at Duboce Park on the Wiggle, each on a bicycle and, most notably, several bright orange traffic cones in their front baskets.  This was the fourth night in a week of shenanigans for members of Safe Street Rebel, a San Francisco “anti-car dominance” and pro-cycling, walking and transit group, that has reacted to the spread of driverless cars in San Francisco with a simple fix: Putting traffic cones on their front hoods to stop them cold in their tracks. “They’re here! It’s coming up,” a member suddenly called out near 10 p.m. Several days of practice have given them eagle-eye skill in detecting the approach of driverless cars from 60 feet away, or through the camouflage of a tree’s leaves on a slope. They waited in place, traffic cones ready, but this driverless car was too far away. Waymo and Cruise vehicles view the ubiquitous cones as sure signs of emergencies: Put a cone on the hood of a car, and it stops. The cones used tonight had “PG&E” written on them, and had been “migrated” from the Sunset District. Want the latest on the Mission and San Francisco? Sign up for our free daily newsletter below.  But, within 45 minutes, the group had a victory: They coned both a Waymo and a Cruise, stopping the cars in the middle of Steiner Street.  “Let’s go! Let’s go! Let’s go,” they said, as a mood of enthusiasm grew. Based on their experience, teams from the companies can show up at the scene within a short 10 minutes to rescue the cars. But, throughout the night, every minute seemed to be its own reward. At times, snapping pictures of the capped cars, they resembled pirates hoarding loot, and they certainly showed the mettle of seasoned raiders. Safe Street Rebel is hosting its week of action to bring attention to a July 13 vote on Thursday, when the California Public Utilities Commission will decide whether Cruise and Waymo can expand their robotaxi services to all of San Francisco and begin charging fares.  “This isn’t like the Board of Supervisors; it’s a state-wide committee that has a say over whether these can be on our streets,” a participant of the cone action said as he watched for vehicles entering Steiner Street.  Four days after officially announcing their work on Twitter, the group has gone viral. One of the tweets has received some 4.6 million views, and the group has been swamped with requests from some 35 media outlets that its members have to take turns for interviews. (They said “No” to Fox News, twice.) In the group’s own words, their “enemies are cars, not people in cars.” They try not to interfere with cars carrying passengers. Sometimes, however, their eyes fail them — the windows are too dark. “Fuck you! I’m in here,” said a female passenger inside a Waymo they attempted to cap with a cone. This incident was a notable failure and, afterward, the squad agreed with each other to say “clear” when they were sure the vehicle wasn’t carrying any passengers.  Other rules Safe Street Rebels have created: Avoid bus stops, and cars in the middle of an intersection, to make their efforts “provocative,” instead of disruptive. Over the course of the night, group members were upset to see some eight self-driving cars in 45 minutes on the Wiggle, a flat stretch of zig-zagging streets that ferries cyclists across the Haight from Market Street to the Panhandle without the need to climb hills. “It’s supposed to be the city’s premier bike route. Why aren’t they taking any of the other roads?” a participant asked.  One night, the group recalled, they saw five Cruises in a row, seemingly all following the same route, which, they believe, could be disruptive to the city’s traffic if applied on a larger scale.   While public opinion on the group remains polarized, few appeared surprised to see them. “Good job!” a biker cheered as he rode by. A couple snuggled nearby also said they had seen the group on social media.  The group skillfully rode through areas where they knew driverless vehicles were more likely to appear. As they rode through the deserted streets, they sometimes opened their arms to enjoy the wind.  They picked up unused, abandoned traffic cones to use for obstructing the autonomous vehicles. “No department of the city has their own cones anymore. They all, like, steal each other’s cones,” one of them claimed.  “Cones migrate!” another member answered. “It’s a seasonal thing with the Santa Ana winds, they start going north. They’re like umbrellas. No one actually owns an umbrella, they get moved around. But the cones are moved strategically.” “We make sure not to take cones from things that are actually marking hazards,” they added. At 10:40 p.m., the group ran into its third and final target, a Cruise vehicle at Fell and Baker streets. They put a cone on it, stopping it dead. “It’s wonderful!” said an older pedestrian as he watched. “I want a guy driving, not a robot. Keep up the good work.” “One of the things that’s really made this go so viral is, even if you support these vehicles, it’s really funny. It’s such a ridiculous sight. It’s a tech company, and we made it a unicorn … Everyone likes unicorns,” they said, trying to explain the popularity of their stunts. A Waymo spokesperson was having none of it. “Not only is this understanding of how AVs operate incorrect, but this is vandalism and encourages unsafe and disrespectful behavior on our roadways. We will notify law enforcement of any unwanted or unsafe interference of our vehicles on public roadways.” A Cruise spokesperson said, “Intentionally obstructing vehicles gets in the way of those efforts and risks creating traffic congestion for local residents.” The San Francisco Police Department has not yet responded as to whether the act constitutes a crime. “The SFMTA does not endorse ANY actions that may increase the number of disabled AVs [autonomous vehicles] on San Francisco streets,” the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency said in a tweet. “We continue to express our concerns about disabled AVs on San Francisco streets that interfere with emergency response, with transit service, and with the ability of all travelers to get to their destinations in San Francisco.” Safe Street Rebel first got attention in 2021, when the city wanted to open the Great Highway to cars. In 2022, it launched the “Just A Minute” project on Valencia Street, when members blocked vehicles parked in the bike lanes with signs reading, “So sorry, just a minute,” the kind of note that some drivers leave on their windshields.   The group has also created some two dozen signs showing the routes, hours and a Muni logo to help people find bus stops too inconspicuous to be noticed, though many of these signs were later taken down by the transit agency without prior notice. “We have a love-hate relationship with the SFMTA,” they said. Even for a group with a history of creative protest tactics, the cones action is “more edgy” in a legal sense, they acknowledged. The operation, they said, is like the “original notion of hacking.” Mirroring the demographics of San Francisco, the group has no small number of tech workers. “A lot of the people that work with the code are more skeptical of computers,” one participant said. “Rather than just blindly cheerleading, ‘All of tech is good. Every single new technology is perfect,’” another said. We can “choose what technology we want in our society.” On the most bountiful night this week, they stopped some 10 vehicles; sometimes they noticed they had stopped the same Cruise vehicle — they all have a unique name — more than once. At 11 p.m., the group called it quits and left the last unused traffic cone near a dumpster, surrounded by its own kind. “We’re bringing more diversity to its population,” one joked.  
				Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again.			 Wait! Before you go...Consider donating to Mission Local today. We're a nonprofit newsroom that has been covering San Francisco since 2008, digging deep to bring you the political analysis, cultural coverage, investigative stories, and neighborhood news you won't get elsewhere. About 3/4 of our total budget comes from individual donors, helping us stay independent so we can provide the hard-hitting reporting you deserve. Keep us that way — make a tax-deductible donation today. 
			Join more than 1,800 other donors to Mission Local		 REPORTER. Yujie Zhou came on as an intern after graduating from Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. She is a full-time staff reporter as part of the Report for America program that helps put young journalists in newsrooms. Before falling in love with the Mission, Yujie covered New York City, studied politics through the “street clashes” in Hong Kong, and earned a wine-tasting certificate in two days. She’s proud to be a bilingual journalist.  Follow her on Twitter @Yujie_ZZ. 
 13 Comments
 There are California Vehicle Code sections that make “coning” AV’s illegal. Some of these acts are misdemeanors. And doing it with a group adds a conspiracy charge. Check out:
CVC § 10852 – Tampering with a Motor Vehicle,
CVC § 10853 – Malicious Mischief to a Vehicle,
CVC § 21701 – Interference with driver or mechanism as to affect driver’s control of vehicle “We make sure not to take cones from things that are actually marking hazards,” they added. How can they know that? One of the reasons that workers place cones is precisely because it can be difficult to determine specific hazards. Including overhead hazards that people might not be paying attention to. Meanwhile it was a car driven by a person that killed someone last night. I’m vehemently pro transit, pro pedestrian and carless.  I’m in support of bicycling, but it hurts that so many bicyclist groups are so indifferent to anyone else. These cars stop for pedestrians.  For bicyclists.  Pick a better target.  Most of the criticisms I hear of them are from motorists complaining they don’t speed, roll through stop signs and are too cautious.  How are any of those bad to someone championing pedestrians or bicycling.. It’s amazing to me that people still believe computers cannot be wrong. These cars make the same mistakes that any computer would. They are not miracle machines. They usually stop for pedestrians (but they didn’t for a friend of mine, and if you are a child or do something unusual, don’t expect them to stop). They usually don’t run red lights (but one did last month in front of me). They generally don’t park in peoples driveways (but I saw it happen, much to the distress of the people fruitlessly banging on its empty driver window). They generally drive like a fearful 80-year-old, but don’t expect that to continue as the owners try to monetize them. Just in the last year, I’ve noticed these cars get more aggressive. But when one of those faceless automatons mows down your grandmother, there will only be a corporation with 100s of lawyers avoiding any responsibility. Who gets the ticket? Who goes to jail? Computers are not perfect.  They are just better than a bunch of random monkeys, many of whom are drunk, immature, sleep deprived, distracted, or just plain evil.  And every year, the computers will improve, while the monkey stay the same. As for stakes, Google and other Megacorporations have more to lose than your typical teen. I’m a daily cyclist who hates cars in general, but I’ll take driverless cars over human-driven cars any day. People who complain about driverless cars need to think about how they drive compared to the alternative: drunk, distracted, inconsiderate, or just plain violent humans. Human drivers are a constant threat; bring on the robots! Sounds funny, but also dumb.   Self-Driving-Cars will one day practically erase bicycle and pedestrian fatalities.   Anyone that fears getting run-over should be funding them instead of fighting them. I don’t own a car and ride a bike almost every day.  I see this “protest” as pointless.  The autonomous cars are much safer for bike riders and walkers than the human driven cars. Ahhh thank you. This just made me smile. these companies don’t actually care about safe streets, they want to engineer humans out of jobs and swim scrooge mcduck style through the piles of money they make. as the person said, we choose what technology we want in our society, and i’d prefer all this time, money and energy going towards public transportation instead of private, for profit companies. these robotaxis are a stupid novelty and i’m all for pubic protest. Anarchist Mission activists and lifted truck driving MAGAs finally found common cause I welcome our AI driver-less car overlords.
After surviving a dozen or so attempted murders within crosswalks – the quicker we get humans out of cars the better.
My favorite is when crossing briskly and paying acute visual attention – the “driver” takes a run at you to make you move faster. Lucky I don’t believe in firearms. Enforcement of existing traffic laws is gone and there’s nothing on the horizon changing that. What we have left is the following:
Stop signs are just a suggestion.
Red lights are for advisory purposes only.
Yellow lights are floor it zones.
Crosswalks are “do you feel lucky today?”
Intersections are for donut artistry.
Bus zones are parking/pickup spots.
Bicycle lanes and … well … anywhere on the street/sidewalk is suitable parking also. more driverless cars please…
humans sux, they stink, no one wants to be in your smelly car-Uber & Lyft…
also, why you gotta harass skaters SFPD, tent encampments YO, clean it up Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Mission Local produces enterprise reporting on San Francisco's most critical issues: police reform, corruption, public health, housing and homelessness. Learn more about us, and donate below keep us reporting. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions.																	
