POKÉMON has revealed the target of April’s upcoming seven-star tera raid battles. Starting soon after the Decidueye event, it’s generation five’s turn to take the stage. The Water-type Samurott will be the raid target next month, following on from its Legends: Arceus partner. Both Decidueye and Samurott were starters in Pokémon Legends: Arceus, but neither have their secondary types from those games. However, as these two have shown up, it has led fans to believe that Typhlosion could be the next raid target. Like the others, it’s likely that the Typhlosion will not be the Ghost-tera type. The Samurott will come with the Bug-tera type, which is considered one of the weaker types in the game. Despite this, it could be a tricky Pokémon to take down, due to its wide move pool and a good number of high crit moves. This could mean that no matter how much defense you set up, it could hit through it. Samurott also comes with the Hidden Ability Shell Armor, which means it can’t be hit critically back. Pokémon has been ramping up its seven-star raids recently, with more appearing than usual. There was even a special event for Pikachu seven-star raids, despite the electric mouse being unevolved. A number of bug fixes came last month, which has fixed some issues with raids. One of Azumarill’s main buffs is its ability Huge Power, which doubles its attack power. However, previously it didn’t do its full damage, and the raid target would regain some health. Since the fixes, more people are joining raids than ever before. Written by Georgina Young on behalf of GLHF. Looking for tips and tricks across your favourite consoles and games? We have you covered... Get all of the latest PS5, Xbox and other video game news here   ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/