Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Paradox Pokemon are a new category of never-before-seen Pokemon. In relation to Pokemon Scarlet and Pokemon Violet's past/future theme, Paradox Pokemon are ancient descendants (Scarlet) or futuristic versions (Violet) of pre-existing species, such as Misdreavus or Delibird. Despite bearing a strong resemblance to their present-time versions, the Paradox Pokémon's Typings are not the same. These are also part of the Paldean Pokedex, so they'll need to be caught for the completionist trainer.
      Pokemon Scarlet & Pokemon Violet introduce Iron Valiant, a Paradox Pokemon that bears a strong resemblance to Gardevoir and Gallade. Unfortunately for Pokemon Scarlet players, Iron Valiant is exclusive to Pokemon Violet. Iron Valiant won't be found wandering around in the open. Thus, Violet players will want to know exactly where to go if they plan on catching it.
      Spoilers for the final story in Pokemon Scarlet/Violet.
  RELATED: Pokemon Scarlet & Violet: How To Catch Sandy Shocks (Paradox Magneton)
                     Iron Valiant can only be found in Area Zero, and if players haven't reached this location yet, then they're not ready to catch it. To reach Area Zero, players will need to have done the following:
                         The first time Violet players will see Iron Valiant is on AI Turo's team. Of course, players won't be able to snag AI Turo's Iron Valiant, so they'll have to find their own. If players return to Area Zero in the postgame, they'll notice an abundance of Paradox Pokemon wandering about... except for Iron Valiant. Here's what to do (refer to the above image for the exact locations):
                         There's only one Iron Valiant that spawns in Area Zero. However, players can catch a second Iron Valiant (or if they accidentally defeat it) by exiting, then re-entering Area Zero and returning to its cave.
      Since the wild Iron Valiant is level 58, it's extremely likely that Violet players will have much stronger Pokemon. Bring a Pokemon that's a little higher than level 58 to this battle, or have a Pokemon that knows the move False Swipe. Iron Valiant is a Fairy/Fighting-type Pokemon, meaning it has the following effectiveness:
                         Strong against:
                         Dragon, Normal, Rock, Steel, Ice, Dark, Fighting
                         Weak against:
                         Psychic, Flying, Poison, Steel, Fairy
                         Immune to:
                         Dragon
                         Resists:
                         Bug, Dark, Rock, Fighting
                         At this point, Violet trainers should know that Iron Valiant's best strengths are its Attack and Speed. Bring a fast Pokemon to this battle (such as Espeon), or a Pokemon with high Defense (such as Garganacl). Be warned that Iron Valiant will have moves like Leaf Blade, which gives it Type Coverage against Rock, Ground, and Water-type Pokemon. Iron Valiant can be a bit tougher to catch than the more common Paradox Pokemon, so bring Ultra Balls and even Timer Balls.
                         If Pokemon Scarlet players are hoping to get their own Iron Valiant, they'll need to trade with someone who has Pokemon Violet. Iron Valiant can't breed, so it can't be transferred as an Egg and will always have the ID of its original trainer. Scarlet/Violet players can trade with one another by using a Link Trade (in Pokemon Portal) and setting a Code.
      Pokemon Scarlet and Pokemon Violet are available for Nintendo Switch.
      MORE: Pokemon Scarlet and Violet: How to Evolve Tinkatink
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Hydreigon is one of the strongest Pokemon in Pokemon Scarlet & Violet, but how does its future Paradox version, Iron Jugulis, hold up? Fortnite Absolute Doom increases the levels players need to acquire all V-Bucks in the Battle Pass. Corsair announces that it will be laying off a number of its staff, continuing an unfortunate trend that has been plaguing the gaming industry. Players who are looking for the three bells in Black Myth: Wukong's Black Wind Mountain can find their locations detailed here. Another weapon has joined the arsenal. Find out how to unlock the Torque 35 in Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone using this guide. Dexter: Resurrection will continue Dexter Morgan's dark story, but what do fans think is going to happen in the new series? Pokemon GO announces a new event called Triumph Together, and players from all over the world will have to team up to earn the rewards.