  Our eye is on musician Otha Day, a pianist and drummer and teacher of all ages, who has lived and worked in the Berkshires for 35 years. Our eye is on musician Otha Day, a pianist and drummer and teacher of all ages, who has lived and worked in the Berkshires for 35 years. His career as a pianist took a shift due to health reasons at age 50, leading to an interest and eventually a career in drumming. Now he uses drum circles as a way to foster connections between people, and to open conversations about race. Eagle's Eye host Gene Carr sat down with Day for an interview about his career and living in the Berkshires. Highlights of their conversation follow. (If you're having trouble viewing the interview in our app, visit The Eagle's YouTube channel for the full video.) Gene Carr: You teach what you refer to as rhythm-based creativity. Tell me a little bit about your drumming world. Otha Day: Well, we are all drummers. It's my world, it's your world, it's the world of everybody out there, because we drum all the time. Everything in our life is about rhythm and drumming — everything. And my job is just to help you discover that.  Carr: Give me an example of the kind of drumming work that you do.  Day: Many different groups: little children with their parents drumming together, to the corporate world, health care, elders.  Carr: Let's imagine you're working with children. What's your approach? Day: It's to have them have fun, make as much noise as possible, and then the joy is having us stop together at the same time. Carr: And how do you get that to happen? Day: One, two, ready and — stop. And they stop. "Wow, what's next?" Carr: So suddenly you're creating a community out of individuals. Is there any difference between how children react to what you just described and how adults react? Day: Adults react the exact same way. My purpose when I work with adults is to tell them ... I'm looking to bring out the child in all of them. Carr: You do sessions where how many people are in the room? What are the drums? What do they look like? How does that really work? Day: These are West African drums, mostly djembes. I also use congas, bongos, some Indigenous American frame drums. The numbers of people will be anywhere from two ... and up to 20, 30, 40. I've worked with groups of 2,000, 2,400 people all at once.  Carr: Now you're working in the corporate setting. Why do corporations call you? What's the outcome that they are looking for? Day: Team building is the phrase that they like to use most. I call it personal development and interactive community development, so team building works. They look for me to help them make connections between their world and each other and the work that they are doing.   Carr: And this is something that music and, in particular, drumming can do that almost no other form of communication can, would you agree with that? Day: I would agree with that. And I start off by telling all of the groups that we're all singers, we're all dancers, we're all drummers, we're all musicians all the time. Our life is about that. What we do as humans is suppress that. ... Drumming is easy because it's all about the heart beat. If they have that heart beat, that rhythm going, and they can connect to that? They realize that we're all connected to each other, there's a super structure that we can all connect to in addition to that rhythm. "We are all drummers," says longtime Berkshire musician Otha Day. "It's my world, it's your world, it's the world of everybody out there, because we drum all the time. Everything in our life is about rhythm and drumming — everything. And my job is just to help you discover that." Carr: Let's go back to the beginning of your musical journey. How did that start and how did your musical journey evolve? Day: I started off on the accordion, the squeeze box accordion ... And then, when I was 16, I fell in love with a woman who was a pianist. I wanted to play the piano because she played the piano. I started taking lessons there and then I went to college, majored in piano performance and then touring and performing and teaching — a lot of teaching. And then I had two strokes, caused by blows to the head. Two separate strokes, two years apart, and the strokes led me to discovering drumming — I'd never really played drums before that — at the age of 50.   Carr: The strokes left you in a situation were you weren't able to play piano, and somehow or other drumming became the way to get back into music, is that right? Day: Yes, it was a way to get back into music. I was teaching a lot of students and I couldn't teach, I was disoriented a lot. But we found the soundtrack to "The Lion King" Broadway production ... and put it on repeat. We happened to be in a music store and came across some congas and bought them, brought them home, not knowing anything about it. So I just tapped a little bit to it — because I couldn't do much anyway because of the strokes and the brain surgery — and that just led to going online and looking for a teacher, finding a number of teachers and that led to drum circles.  Carr: You also have another vision for how you'd like to use drumming. Why don't you give me a little background about that? "Drumming is easy because it's all about the heart beat. If they have that heart beat, that rhythm going, and they can connect to that? They realize that we're all connected to each other." Otha Day, longtime Berkshire musician Day: After the election in 2016 — actually even in 2008 when [President Barack] Obama was elected — and most especially in 2016, I realized that America needed to have a conversation about race. It's really difficult to talk about race. It is. It gets to our heart, we feel vulnerable, we feel as if someone is attacking us. And because I occupy lots of worlds — I'm a Black man, having grown up in Chicago, I'm from Mississippi and I occupy a very white world — I bridge worlds. For me, drumming is something that connects everybody. ... I realized that I had to do something to help people talk about race.  Carr: When you use drumming to talk about race, give me an example of how that works.  Day: I decided I have to talk about race all the time. ... I realized I have to do that in almost every encounter I have with groups of people, especially when I have drums. With all of my events, I make sure to play the heartbeat rhythm. After we've danced and played the shakers and looked around at each other and smiled, then I have everyone look around and really look others in the eye and realize that we are all connected around the globe. All of us.  Carr: Let's imagine that you have a group of people, some Black, some white, who connect musically and rhythmically, and you get people beating — literally beating together. Does that open up conversation, after the music stops? Day: It really does. Most people don't realize how much of what they do is affected by what others do. We all think we live in a silo. But the truth is ... everything is affected by everything else. So once they realize that they are able to smile and play rhythms together and interact together, then we stop and I'll pose a series of questions. I'll have folks get together and press some issue. And usually I like to have groups start with the ways in which they grew up thinking about race.  Carr: Once you've been drumming with each other, it's almost like a lubricant for conversations.  Day: That's exactly what it is.  Carr: What is your vision of the future and what do you hope to achieve? Day: My vision — and many of us are hoping — is for a drum to be in every home ...  I want folks to realize that there are ways to connect and to have conversations, so that when using words becomes difficult, you can go beyond that and do something else that's fun and breaks the ice.  "The Eagle’s Eye: Catching Up with Berkshire Visionaries" is an interview series with host Gene Carr. Carr is a cellist and arts executive turned tech entrepreneur here in the Berkshires. You also may know him through his work as festival director of Berkshire Busk, the outdoor summer entertainment series throughout downtown Great Barrington. Each interview comes to you in two ways. First is the video interview with the episode’s guest; to watch it, use your phone’s camera to scan the QR code or visit berkshireeagle.com. The second way is what you can read below, an abridged version of the question-and-answer interview between Carr and his guests. Our suggestion is to read the interview below and then watch the videos, which are about 15 or so minutes long. What is The Eagle’s Eye series about? It’s about putting a spotlight on creative and entrepreneurial folks throughout the Berkshires. In his introduction to The Eagle’s Eye, Carr explains: “The Berkshires are a fascinating place to live — not only the natural beauty and the cultural resources and the restaurants, but the people who live here among us are some of the most interesting in the world. “Every episode, we're going to talk with one of those people. We're going to get to know their vision — what makes them creative, what makes them an innovator.” We invite you to read and watch and listen. Each video interview is very well done, and that’s thanks to Gene Carr and the talented production team on the show — Charlette Media Productions, which includes Richard Bradway and Ellen Gorman. The Eagle’s Eye series will feature a new episode each month through January.  In the third episode of “The Eagle’s Eye,” host Gene Carr catches up with two of Berkshire County’s most popular visionaries: Mitch and Seth Nash, brothers who founded BlueQ.  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.