Wrigley Field is home to the Chicago Cubs. Nothing says “welcome to summer” in Chicago like a Chicago Cubs baseball game at Wrigley Field. Known for its unique traditions and charm, Wrigley Field, which was built in 1914, has been the beloved home of the Chicago Cubs for more than a century. Taking in a Cub’s game is an ideal multigenerational experience, with grandparents, parents and kids make it a travel tradition. In addition to the game, Cubs ballpark tours provide an insider's look at more than 100 years of history in this legendary ballpark. Wrigley Field is the second-oldest ballpark in the majors (behind Boston's Fenway Park, which was built in 1912). Before you head to a Cubs game, here’s what you need to know.  A Cubs game in Wrigley Field is a popular multigenerational activity for both locals and travelers.  · For most games, gates will open 90 minutes prior to first pitch. · Each mobile ticket includes an assigned entry gate. · Bag restrictions are still in place with only bags smaller than 16 x 16 x 8 inches in size being permitted inside the ballpark. · Backpacks are not permitted. Exceptions will be made for medical bags and diaper bags that accompany guests with young children. · All purchases at Wrigley Field remain cashless. · Cubs tickets are available exclusively as mobile tickets via the MLB Ballpark app.   Wrigley Field draws a big crowd throughout the summer.  This season there is a new trophy room located inside the Marquee Gate entrance, adjacent to the C.D. Peacock Premier Entrance lobby. The new trophy room will house the 2016 World Series Championship trophy and will be open to fans on game days. The Cubs are introducing a new commemorative ticket option for fans through the MLB Ballpark app this season. Whether it’s for big games or life’s special moments, fans will have the ability to commemorate their experience at Wrigley Field with this memento. Commemorative tickets will be mailed as ordered and will not provide entry into the ballpark. Starting this season, fans will be able to enjoy night games, concerts and other special events under the new energy-efficient LED light fixtures which were installed last fall, replacing the original Wrigley Field light fixtures, first installed back in 1988. Kids Run the Bases presented by Horizon happens on Kids Sundays where the first 1,000 kids 13 years of age and younger can run the bases on the field after the game. At select concession stands throughout the ballpark, fans can get a souvenir bucket filled with a hot dog, chips, apple sauce and a juice box for roughly $10 Ballpark Celebrations are also popular for kids and families starting with Marvel Super Hero Night (July 18), Star Wars Night (Aug 2), and Sesame Street Day (Sept 24). The food and beverage menu at Wrigley Field has also been updated. Concession choices include: • Crispy Chicken Bao Bun: Crispy chicken thigh, Thai chili sauce, baby arugula, cucumber and carrot on a bao bun. • Greek Loaded Fries: Gyro meat, feta cheese, Kalamata olives, tomatoes, red onions, pepperoncini and feta cream sauce on a bed of crispy steak fries in a souvenir helmet. • Burger Brat: Split bratwurst filled with brat-seasoned ground beef, cheddar cheese, yellow mustard and sauerkraut on a brioche bun. • Crispy Chicken Torta: Homestyle crispy chicken, mayo ancho cabbage, cotija cheese on a torta roll. • Quesabirria: Barbacoa, Spanish onions, Chihuahua cheese on a crispy flour tortilla with ancho chili sauce.  Gallagher Way has free summerlong programming in Wrigleyville, right next to Wrigley Field. Events and programs include the return of Movies at Gallagher Way with new partner Alamo Drafthouse, Wiggleworms hosted by the Old Town School of Folk Music, the French Market at Gallagher Way brought to you by Bensidoun USA, a Fitness Series with partners CrossTown Fitness, Movement Gyms, 5 Keys Yoga, and Strength in the City, plus special concerts and more. Food and beverages will be available for purchase at each showing from surrounding Gallagher Way restaurants, as well as the on-site concession stands. Guests can bring their own food, as well.  In partnership with Choose Chicago, Gallagher Way welcomes back Chicago Friday Night Flights, with the citywide event series kicking off on Friday, June 2, with two sessions at Gallagher Way starting at 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. The evening will feature local food and 30+ breweries from neighborhoods across the city. Head to Gallagher Way on select dates for family-friendly concerts performed by the Rock and Roll Playhouse band, featuring movements, stories and an opportunity for adults and kids to rock out to the most iconic musicians in rock history. The concerts start at 11 a.m. and will kick off with “We Will Rock You” on Sunday, June 25.