
  King Charles is planning to transform his Norfolk estate by tearing up its immaculate lawn and planting a new 'climate-friendly' garden in its place.
 
  The monarch wants to turn the lovingly-manicured area in front of Sandringham House into a topiary display, with thousands of yew tree hedging plants, lavender and roses.
 
The late Queen hosts a garden party on the lawn at Sandringham in 2012   (Image: Ian Burt)
 
  The space has previously hosted garden parties and was used to grow vegetables as part of the Dig for Victory campaign in the Second World War.
 
The lawns at Sandringham were dug up to grow vegetables during the Second World War  (Image: BBC/Facebook)
 
  The estate said the changes were intended to bring "increased naturalistic planting to the area to improve biodiversity". 
 
King Charles plans to turn the lawn in front of Sandringham House into a climate-friendly topiary garden  (Image: Ian Burt)
 
  It added: "In recent years, with changing weather patterns the current expanse of lawn has been affected by warm weather and excessive rainfall.
 
  "The newly-developed garden will introduce new species that are more robust, hardy and better able to withstand the impact of emerging weather patterns."
 
  Gravel paths will enable visitors to experience the garden, which will bring new varieties of plants and flowers.
 
An overview of the King's new topiary garden at Sandringham  (Image: Sandringham Estate)
 
  The estate went on: "The garden will combine specialist horticultural practices and techniques to ensure the topiary is maintained with plentiful visual seasonal colour from the flowers. In addition, it will create a rich source for pollinators and the provision of new habitats."
 
A garden party on the lawn at Sandringham in 2012  (Image: James Bass)
 
  It said the new plantings would include more than 5,000 yew tree hedging plants in a range of sizes, along with more than 4,000 herbaceous perennial plants and bulbs including Veronica), Delphinium, Phlox, Echinacea, Lavender and other species.
 
  The central area will also feature yellow and pink rose varieties.
 
King Charles and Camilla, the Queen Consort, at Sandringham Flower Show  (Image: Matthew Usher)
 
  The King has set his stamp on Sandringham, since taking over the running of the 20,000-acre estate from his late father, Prince Philip, in 2017.
 
  A stalwart supporter of its annual flower show, the monarch has also overseen the roll-out of organic farming methods, the planting of hedgerows and measures to encourage wildlife such as the threatened curlew.
 
  Sandringham Gardens will reopen to visitors in early February as the work continues. The garden is expected to be completed by the end of May.
 
   
 
   
 
WINDS OF CHANGE
 
  The King has given another indication of the winds of change in the monarchy after he asked for profits from a £1bn-a-year Crown Estate windfarm deal to be used for the “wider public good” rather than as extra funding for the Royal family.
 
  Under the taxpayer-funded sovereign grant, which is now £86.3m a year, the king receives 25% of the Crown Estate’s annual surplus, which includes an extra 10% for the refurbishment of Buckingham Palace.
 
  Six new offshore wind energy lease agreements, announced by the Crown Estate this week, have generated a major windfall, which would usually lead to a jump in the monarchy’s official funding.
 
  But the King has requested that the extra funds “be directed for wider public good”, instead of to the sovereign grant, at a time when many are facing financial hardship.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.