There is a lot to consider when deciding whether to live together Sign up to our free email newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and daily roundups  We have more newsletters Sign up to our free email newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and daily roundups  We have more newsletters The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has issued a number of rules that are in place about moving in with somebody. This is something that can have significant financial impacts. Among the many things which can change, Universal Credit payments can be affected for those who claim benefits. With rent and mortgage rising at scary speeds, choosing to live together can be seen as a sensible way to cut costs. However, those in that situation should also consider how it can alter their eligibility. Citizens Advice says the current Universal Credit rules regarding partners are "complicated" and that people should contact them for help, reports Mirror.  Read more: DWP issues passport warning after announcing crackdown on benefits fraud  Usually, the DWP counts two people as being in a couple if they live in the same household and are:  The DWP classes this life step as a "change in circumstance" and this means you will need to report it.. If you are both getting Universal Credit, then you will both need to report it and you both can continue to claim if you are both working but are on a low income. When you move in together, you won't need to start a new Universal Credit claim but you will need to link your account to your partner’s. This is because your existing claim needs to become a joint claim with you partner. As the calculation of Universal Credit is based on your monthly income and savings, moving in with a partner as a couple could impact this. Your overall payment includes support for the cost of housing, children and childcare, plus support for disabled people and carers. If your partner, or you and your partner have a combined savings pot over £16,000 then you both cannot claim Universal Credit. If one of you was getting Pension Credit o benefits such as Housing Benefit, Income Support or Tax Credit, those payments will stop. 