The park will “bring to life its beloved characters and stories in ways that will wow even the youngest theme park goers.” Courtesy of Universal Parks & Resorts  Universal Parks & Resorts has announced a new theme park slated to open in Frisco, Texas.
  The “one-of-a-kind theme park” promises to be “unlike any other in the world” and will cater to families with young children, the company shared with Travel + Leisure on Wednesday. In the concept art shared, the park is “set in a lush green landscape” and will feature “immersive themed lands.”
  Universal shares that it will “bring to life its beloved characters and stories in ways that will wow even the youngest theme park goers.”
  Information regarding a timeline for opening was not disclosed.
  The 97 acres of land recently purchased by the company will be located in the Dallas-Fort Worth metro area and will be sized for a regional audience. Factors, such as growing population, contributed to the selection of this area.
  “We think North Texas is the perfect place to launch this unique park for families given its growing popularity within this part of the country,” Page Thompson, President, New Ventures, Universal Parks & Resorts, shared in a press release.
  “It will be full of family-friendly attractions, interactive and playful shows, character meet and greets, unique merchandise and fun food and beverage venues,” Universal shares. Although scaled down from traditional theme parks, Universal ensures that it will “still carry the same quality as Universal’s other larger resort destinations.”
  Future plans include expansion and an adjacent themed hotel.
  This is part of a growing trend in the theme park industry known as ‘micro-parks.’ These parks, significantly smaller in size than large-scale parks, are designed to be experienced in a shorter period of time and often are more affordable.
  Examples include the newly opened Peppa Pig Theme Park in Florida, and the in-development Crystal Lagoons Island Resort in Arizona.
  Universal Parks & Resorts currently operates five theme park resorts around the world — including Universal Studios Orlando and Universal Studios Japan — but this will be its first venture of this new park concept. 
