Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 The tech juggernaut's investors stand to earn handsome gains. Microsoft's (MSFT 0.73%) shareholders have enjoyed a steep rally in its stock price in recent months. Following a strong fiscal 2023 third-quarter performance, the software leader's shares are up a solid 28% so far this year.  Better still, Microsoft appears to be poised to break out to new all-time highs. Here's why. Recession fears drove many companies to slow their investments in technology. Microsoft worked with its customers to optimize their tech spending, which weighed on the company's revenue in recent quarters. But it's the correct long-term move, as it should help to build goodwill among its client base. We're likely nearing the end of these spending cuts. During Microsoft's fiscal 2023 third-quarter earnings call on April 25, chief financial officer Amy Hood said, "At some point, workloads just can't be optimized much further." Beyond this point, Microsoft's cloud growth is likely to reaccelerate.  Make no mistake: Despite these considerable macroeconomic challenges, Microsoft's cloud operations are already expanding at an impressive clip. Its Azure and other cloud services revenue jumped 27% in its fiscal third quarter, and 31% when adjusting for foreign currency fluctuations.  Moreover, despite years of torrid growth, Microsoft's expansion in the cloud remains in its early innings. Amazon CEO Andy Jassy noted in his recent letter to shareholders that "about 90% of global IT spending [is] still on-premises and yet to migrate to the cloud." With its Azure cloud computing platform growing even faster than Amazon Web Services, Microsoft stands to benefit from this trend as much as its rival -- and perhaps even more so. Artificial intelligence (AI) should further fuel Microsoft's expansion. Following its multibillion-dollar investment in OpenAI in January, Microsoft moved quickly to integrate the ChatGPT maker's cutting-edge technology across its products and services. Microsoft's Word and Excel productivity software, Teams communication platform, and GitHub code-writing tools all received new AI-powered features intended to make these products even more valuable for users. This increased functionality should allow Microsoft to eventually charge higher prices for its software. That, in turn, could drive the tech titan's already enviable profit margins even higher -- and its stock price along with them.  MSFT Operating Margin (TTM) data by YCharts Microsoft has a particularly keen interest in increasing its share of a global internet search advertising revenue market that's projected to top $400 billion by 2026, according to Statista.   CEO Satya Nadella intends to use AI to wrestle away users from the current search king, Alphabet's Google. To do so, Microsoft is deploying a new version of its Bing search engine that uses AI to deliver more relevant and complete answers in a convenient, conversational way.  Due in part to Microsoft's newfound AI capabilities, electronics giant Samsung is reportedly thinking about switching the default search engine on its popular devices from Google to Bing. Analysts at Bank of America believe Apple might also be considering a switch to Bing. If Microsoft can successfully convert these tech leaders, it could win a deluge of search-based profits. Suzanne Frey, an executive at Alphabet, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. John Mackey, former CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Joe Tenebruso has the following options: long January 2025 $100 calls on Amazon.com. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Alphabet, Amazon.com, Apple, Bank of America, and Microsoft. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.