Condé Nast Traveler unveiled the 2023 Readers' Choice Awards last week, and for the second year running, Phu Quoc secured a spot among the "Top Islands." The awards categorize islands by regions such as Europe, Asia, Central and South America, and North America, without specific rankings. Sao Beach on the southern tip of Phu Quoc Island. Photo by Shutterstock In the Asian island category, Phu Quoc claimed 8th spot, surpassing Japan's Okinawa & Ryuku islands and the Philippines' Siargao. Rankings were determined based on evaluations by global readers and travel experts. Phu Quoc's allure lies in its pristine beaches, mild climate, and ample accommodation options ranging from the budget-friendly to ultra-luxurious. Additionally, the island offers a diverse range of experiences, including modern amusement parks, and safari experiences. In 2015, Condé Nast Traveler readers praised Sao Beach in Phu Quoc, placing it among the world's top 10 tranquil island beaches, alongside Fiji and the Maldives. Sao Beach, situated approximately 25 kilometers from downtown Phu Quoc, boasts 7 kilometers of pristine white sands along the island's southern edge. Recently, travel experts from the South China Morning Post, a Hong Kong newspaper, have designated The Sailing Club in Phu Quoc as one of the top 10 most luxurious bars in Southeast Asia, solidifying the island's reputation for excellence. Tourists enjoy at a lounge bar of Sailing Club along Long Beach in Phu Quoc. Photo courtesy of Sailing Club Other notable attractions on Phu Quoc include the world's longest three-wire cable car to Hon Thom Island and the multimedia show "Kiss The Stars." Travelers seeking authentic local encounters can explore pepper and pearl farms, Phu Quoc National Park, or Ham Ninh fishing village. Phu Quoc's culinary scene is also a highlight, featuring dishes like bun quay, or stirred noodles, and fish sauce. Condé Nast Traveler's Readers' Choice Awards has a history of 26 years and brings highly respected recognition in the global tourism industry. Subsidiary of VnExpress License number: 71/GP-CBC, Ministry of Information andCommunications, September 22, 2021 Editor-in-Chief: Pham Van Hieu Email: evne@vnexpress.netTel: 028 7300 9999 - Ext 8556  FPT Tower, 10 Pham Van Bach Street, Dich Vong Ward, Cau Giay District, Hanoi, Vietnam © Copyright 1997 VnExpress.net. All rights reserved.