COVID-19: The Centre today (April 7) told the states and Union territories that currently the World Health Organisation (WHO) is closely tracking one variant of interest (VOI), XBB.1.5 and six other variants are under monitoring BQ.1, BA.2.75, CH.1.1, XBB, XBF and XBB.1.16.  



 During a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya virtually interacted with the health ministers of the states and union territories and advised them to ramp up vaccination of all eligible population, especially of the elderly and vulnerable population group.  It was highlighted that while Omicron and its sub-lineages continue to be the predominant variant, most of the assigned variants have little or no significant transmissibility, disease severity or immune escape. The prevalence of XBB.1.16 increased from 21.6 per cent in February to 35.8 per cent in March, 2023. However, no evidence of an increase in hospitalisation or mortality has been reported. It was also informed that while India has achieved over 90 per cent coverage of primary vaccination, the coverage of precaution dose is very low. In the meeting with state health ministers and principal and additional chief secretaries held virtually, Mandaviya stressed on identifying emergency hotspots by monitoring trends of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases, ramping up testing and vaccination and ensuring readiness of hospital infrastructure. Along with enhancing genome sequencing and ramping up whole genome sequencing of positive samples, he also emphasised on creating awareness about following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Centre and the states need to continue working in a collaborative spirit as was done during the previous surges for COVID-19 prevention and management, Mandaviya said. Mock drills in hospitals on April 10, 11: He also urged the state health ministers to conduct mock drills of all hospital infrastructure on April 10 and 11 and review the health preparedness with district administrations and health officials on April 8 and 9. Earlier, on Wednesday (April 5), COVID empowerment working group also conducted a review routine meeting. Dr VK Paul, Dr Rajiv Bahl, DG, ICMR and other senior health officials attended this meeting. According to the sources, this was a review meeting to know the COVID situation and preparedness in the country.  ALSO READ: Daily Covid cases cross 6000-mark in India, active tally stands at 28,303 The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) also attend the meeting. "We need to remain alert but there is no need to worry. Currently, the sub-variant of Omicron which is circulating in the country hasn't increased hospitalisation," Mandaviya said on Covid-19 situation in the country. Last month on March 22, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting to review Covid-related situation and public health preparedness in view of the recent surge in coronavirus cases as well as influenza infections. Five-fold strategy: PM Modi advised to continue to focus on a five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and Covid appropriate behaviour, enhance lab surveillance and testing of all Severe Acute Respiratory Illness cases.  He also said that mock drills should be conducted regularly to ensure that hospitals are ready for all exigencies. PM Modi directed officials to enhance whole genome sequencing of positive samples with the designated INSACOG genome sequencing laboratories. "This will support tracking of newer variants, if any, and timely response," the PMO said. (With IANS inputs)  ALSO READ: As Covid cases rise in India, Nitish Kumar urges Centre to provide fresh vaccine stocks  Top News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win Related India News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash 'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case  3 children dead, 37 admitted to hospital after suspected food poisoning in Andhra Pradesh Latest News Kolkata rape-murder case: CBI appoints top officer ASP Seema Pahuja to probe matter, who is she?   Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same  Fadnavis takes swipe at Jarange: 'Will quit politics if CM says I am hindering Maratha quota process  CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Muqabla: What evidence did CBI find... Who is now feeling scared?    Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    Kamala Harris implies Trump a 'coward' during Pennsylvania campaign appearance     Vedang Raina Says His Dating Life Has Taken A 'Back Seat’     Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Union Min Suresh Gopi says "Let's end this draconian life system"    CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed    Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Vinesh Phogat celebrates Raksha Bandhan with brother Harvinder Phogat, video goes viral | WATCH   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   Champai Soren likely to join BJP | How this may affect Jharkhand political landscape ahead of polls   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  