Russ College of Engineering and Technology Helpful Links Navigate OHIO Connect With Us Future StudentsCurrent StudentsFaculty and StaffAlumni and Friends Experience makes the best building blocks.  At the Russ College of Engineering and Technology, we understand that the workforce prefers professionals who are custom-tailored, never mass-produced. In addition to honing your technical skills, we focus on the fact that soft skills are some of the strongest materials you can work with. Using real-world problems, we give you the hands-on experience you need to get the job you want right after graduation. Above all, you will learn that what you create today can change you—and society—forever. Our dedicated career staff provides personalized coaching and invaluable networking opportunities.  98.89% of recent graduates whose outcomes were known are employed or continuing their education * *Cohort Year: 2021-22.   Degree Level: Bachelors.   College: Russ College of Engineering and Technology (includes students in the Honors Tutorial College),  Knowledge Rate: 85%.   Source:  OHIO Outcomes | Tableau Public Read about our Career Connections Undergraduates can finish in four years, including valuable hands-on internship experiences. Internship Opportunities Undergraduate students have the opportunity to participate in experiential learning activities, such as competitions and research. READ ABOUT A NATIONALLY-WINNING TEAM Ohio University Executive Vice President and Provost Dr. Elizabeth Sayrs has named Dr. Patrick Fox as dean of the Russ College of Engineering and Technology. Read more about Dr. Fox. Intel awarded Ohio University $3 million in grant funding to serve as the lead institution for the Appalachian Semiconductor Education and Technical (ASCENT) Ecosystem, a program that will create an inclusive workforce development and training program to cultivate the next generation of skilled technical professionals for Ohio’s emerging semiconductor industry. Learn more about ASCENT     View All News Stories  A time-honored tradition at OHIO, Welcome Week 2024 is packed with activities that cater to new and returning students, setting the stage for a successful and vibrant semester.  OHIO's Gordon K. Bush Airport has been awarded $2.5 million in state funding to support improvements to its existing 12,000-square-foot box hangar space.  Researchers from several fields at Ohio University recently collaborated to make lateral flow assay biotests less expensive and more accessible allowing more people to take potentially life-saving tests.   Follow us, tag us in your posts and be sure to use #ForeverOHIO! © 2024 Ohio University. All rights reserved.