0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





 With this move, Tata Play Binge brings in many OTT apps under one roof, giving customers a simplified content-first approach via a single subscription.  Comviva, the global provider in mobility solutions, today announced partnership with Tata Play Binge to accelerate its digital journey with BlueMarble platform. This association will further bolster Tata Play’s standing as one of India’s leading content distribution platforms. Comviva’s BlueMarble platform shall power Tata Play Binge to maximize its growth by targeting a more extensive customer base beyond its existing DTH subscribers. BlueMarble provides an integrated suite of use cases like catalog, order, CRM, subscription, billing and revenue management that enables an exceptional customer experience. Media service providers can onboard, launch, manage and stream new services quickly and seamlessly. In the current OTT ecosystem, customers download multiple content apps and subscribe to different paid content models to view their choice of content. With this move, Tata Play Binge brings in many OTT apps under one roof, giving customers a simplified content-first approach via a single subscription. Through a single subscription and a unified frontend, Tata Play Binge currently offers 20+ OTT apps like Disney+ Hotstar, ZEE5, SonyLIV, Voot Select, MX Player, Lionsgate Play, hoichoi, Chaupal, Namma Flix, Planet Marathi, ReelDrama, Koode, ManoramaMax, Tarang Plus, Sun NXT, Hungama Play, Eros Now, ShemarooMe, Voot Kids, Curiosity Stream, EPIC ON and DocuBay. Commenting on the partnership, Vishal Arya of Tata Play said, “We are a customer-obsessed organization and continuously strive at setting new benchmarks of experience. One of the distinguishing features of Tata Play Binge is providing a unified subscription model to the customers while managing various subscription models simultaneously. Comviva’s BlueMarble digital platform gives us significant business agility and flexibility in delivering various business models. Our go-to-market time has drastically reduced thereby making Tata Play Binge more competitive and innovative in the market.” Tanveer Mahmood, SVP & Head of Integrated Solutions at Comviva, said, “Today, digital technologies present an ideal opportunity for media players to innovate and prepare for the future. We are excited about this strategic partnership with Tata Play Binge as it forays into the pureplay OTT content aggregation space. Our BlueMarble platform will make content viewing an enriching and engaging experience for all users and help Tata Play Binge in its digital transformation journey.” According to Comviva, it’s BlueMarble is a cloud-native, containerized, microservice-based platform that is scalable and flexible to handle traffic and customer base surge on the app. Additionally, the solution allows Tata Play Binge to devise customer-friendly subscription plans that are in line with the ever-evolving content-consuming market.    Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    