Just hours after the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a wells notice to Paxos, the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) has Paxos Trust Co. to stop issuing the Binance USD (BUSD) stablecoin on its exchange itBit. According to the wells notice issued by the SEC, Binance USD is an unregistered security and Paxos violated investor protection laws by listing and issuing the stablecoin. Normally, firms have the opportunity to respond in writing to convince the SEC why it should not continue with a lawsuit after a wells notice. While the NYDFS has asked Paxos to stop creating any more BUSD, Binance has issued a statement saying that Paxos will continue to manage the redemption of the product. Only last week, the SEC said that crypto staking violated securities laws and forced crypto exchange Kraken to shut down its crypto staking product after agreeing on a $30 million settlement deal for issuing the product without first seeking authorization. Coinbase which had said that the SEC was planning to crack down on crypto staking, has decided to take up the fight and defend its crypto staking offering in court if need be. The securities debate within the crypto industry has been there for some years now and has been in focus since the US SEC filed a lawsuit against Ripple Labs, three years ago, arguing that its Ripple (XRP) token is a security. The case is still ongoing with speculations that it could be ruled in favour of Ripple after a US Court recently ruled that another token, LBRY Credits (LBC), is not a security. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
