SEATTLE – Jordan Eberle scored on the power play 3 minutes into overtime and the Seattle Kraken beat the Colorado Avalanche 3-2 on Monday night to even their best-of-7 series at 2-2. Eberle collected a deflection and buried his first goal of the playoffs past Colorado goalie Alexandar Georgiev. Seattle was on the power play after Josh Manson was called for tripping on Jaden Schwartz on a breakaway attempt in the opening moments of the extra session. It was the first playoff overtime game in franchisee history for the Kraken, who ensured there would be at least one more game played in Seattle. Will Borgen and Daniel Sprong scored in the first period to a 2-0 lead. Mikko Rantanen scored twice in the second period for Colorado to pull even. Game 5 is Wednesday night in Denver. Seattle dominated play in the offensive zone most of the night, outshooting Colorado 43-22. But after taking a 2-0 lead, the Kraken were unable to extend their advantage thanks largely to Georgiev. Colorado’s goalie made 39 saves and kept the Avalanche from getting overrun in the first period. But in overtime, Manson’s penalty at 1:59 provided the Kraken a chance to end their overtime debut quickly. Schwartz had his shot in front of the net blocked, but it fell to Eberle’s stick and he didn’t miss the open net after being held in check for most of the series. Seattle goalie Philipp Grubauer made 20 saves and came through when needed in the third period with a couple of key stops to deny Colorado a comeback victory. For the second time in the series, Seattle was unable to make a 2-0 first-period lead stand. Rantanen scored his first on a three-on-two rush that was set up by Nathan MacKinnon. His second came in the dying seconds of Colorado’s first power play of the game, snapping a shot through a screen and past Grubauer with 2 seconds remaining on the man-advantage. It was Colorado’s first power-play goal in 15 chances against Seattle, regular and postseason combined. Seattle played most of the game without leading scorer Jared McCann, who left the game after a hit by Cale Makar in the first period. McCann was down on the ice for several minutes before being helped to the bench and headed straight back to the Seattle locker room. There was no announcement about his injury but he did not return for the start of the second period. McCann was hurt on a short-handed attempt midway through the first period. The shot was saved by Georgiev and appeared to go into the netting behind the goal. McCann did not seem ready for the hit by Makar. Makar was originally given a 5-minute major penalty but it was reduced to a 2-minute minor. Seattle scored on the ensuing power play to take a 2-0 lead. TAMPA, Fla. – Alexander Kerfoot scored on the power play at 4:14 of overtime after Toronto wiped out a three-goal deficit in the third period, and the Maple Leafs beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 5-4 Monday night to take a commanding 3-1 series lead in their first-round playoff matchup. Alex Killorn scored twice in helping the Lightning build a 4-1 lead that the Maple Leafs erased with three goals – two by Auston Matthews – in a span of 6 minutes, 20 seconds. Morgan Rielly’s second goal of the series tied it 4-all at 16:04 of the third period. Mikhail Sergachev and Steven Stamkos also scored for the Lightning. Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 32 shots and had a couple of big saves in the overtime period before Kerfoot redirected Mark Giordano past the goaltender for the win. Noel Acciari scored for the second consecutive game for Toronto, deflecting Juston Holl’s shot past Vasilevskiy early in the second period to briefly get the Maple Leafs within one goal before Tampa Bay pulled away with goals by Stamkos and Killorn that made it 4-1. NEW YORK – Jonas Siegenthaler scored the tiebreaking goal in the third period, Akira Schmid had 22 saves in another shutdown start and New Jersey beat New York to even the first-round playoff series at two games apiece. Jack Hughes and Ondrej Palat also scored for New Jersey, which got its second consecutive tight win at Madison Square Garden after a pair of lopsided losses at home. Vincent Trocheck scored for the Rangers, and Igor Shesterkin stopped 20 shots. New York has totaled just two goals in the last two games after scoring five each in the first two. WINNIPEG, Manitoba – William Karlsson and Ivan Barbashev scored 47 seconds apart in the second period and Vegas held on to beat Winnipeg and take a 3-1 lead in their first-round playoff series. The Golden Knights could eliminate Winnipeg in Game 5 of the best-of-seven series on Thursday night in Las Vegas.  Winnipeg lost more than the game when veteran star center Mark Scheifele left the ice early in the first period and the team announced he wouldn’t return because of an upper-body injury. Manitoba-born forward Brett Howden scored twice for the Golden Knights, including one into an empty net. Chandler Stephenson and Shea Theodore each had two assists. Laurent Brossoit made 24 saves. Blake Wheeler had a goal and assist and Pierre-Luc Dubois also scored for Winnipeg. Neal Pionk added two assists, extending his point streak to seven assists in four games. Connor Hellebuyck stopped 26 of the 29 shots he faced for Winnipeg.