By Tom Leonard   Published:  18:29 EDT, 27 April 2023   |  Updated:  19:00 EDT, 27 April 2023      44 View  comments  Walt Disney wanted visitors to feel they were 'in another world' when they visited his lavish theme parks and watched his colourful films. But increasingly it's a world unlike anything Uncle Walt ever envisaged. In June, Disneyland in California will hold its first-ever 'Pride Nites' at which its most beloved characters — Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck and Goofy — will celebrate the 'LGBTQIA+ community and allies' by parading in inclusive, rainbow-themed outfits. They'll be joined by their girlfriends — Minnie, Daisie and Clarabelle — though how long Disney tolerates so many heterosexual relationships among its cartoon A-listers is anyone's guess. For the corporation, dubbed 'Woke Disney' by its critics, is involved in an escalating battle with Florida's Republican governor Ron DeSantis that has plunged the House of Mouse into the front line of America's culture wars.  DeSantis, who is pro-Brexit, is expected in Britain today for talks with senior government ministers as part of a trade mission to promote Florida, and leaders of Nigel Farage's Reform Party are also keen to meet him. In June, Disneyland in California will hold its first-ever 'Pride Nites' at which its most beloved characters — Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck and Goofy — will celebrate the 'LGBTQIA+ community and allies' by parading in inclusive, rainbow-themed outfits For the corporation, dubbed 'Woke Disney' by its critics, is involved in an escalating battle with Florida's Republican governor Ron DeSantis that has plunged the House of Mouse into the front line of America's culture wars But if he seems distracted, it may well be because almost every month brings another development at Disney guaranteed to infuriate conservatives like DeSantis, who complain that the huge company's ultra-progressive bosses have warped Uncle Walt's family-friendly vision and are tarnishing everything with Left-wing sexual and racial politics. In September, Disney will host the globe's biggest gay rights summit at Florida's Disney World.  A few months later, the resort will open a major new ride called Tiana's Bayou Adventure, featuring Disney's first black Princess. This replaces the hugely popular Splash Mountain, closed in January over claims that it was too strongly associated with Disney's 1946 film Song Of The South starring Br'er Rabbit and accused of portraying an 'idyllic' slave-master relationship in the American South. An online petition that accused the ride of being 'steeped in extremely problematic and stereotypical racist tropes' drew 21,000 signatures — little more than a fifth of the 100,000 who signed a counter-petition to keep it open, but Disney still decided it had to go. The PG-rated scrap between Disney and DeSantis has taken on national importance given that the governor, posing as a firebrand champion of the common people against oppressively woke corporations, is clearly keen for everyone to know about the stand he has taken as he prepares to challenge Donald Trump for the Republican presidential nomination. But while many agree with his sentiments, some fear that his relentless attack on a much-loved family institution comes across as a petty vendetta — the governor's even suggested building a prison slap next door to The Magic Kingdom — and could backfire on 44-year- old DeSantis. On Wednesday the battle took another dramatic turn when Disney announced it is suing him, saying he had waged a 'targeted campaign of government retaliation' that infringed its constitutional rights to free speech. The legal action is the latest move in a row that started more than a year ago when, facing heavy pressure from its own pro-LGBTQ+ staff, the then Disney boss Bob Chapek pledged to fight for the repeal of a new Florida law banning schools from teaching five to nine-year-olds about sexual orientation and gender identity. Critics dubbed it the 'Don't Say Gay' law but DeSantis insisted parents, not schools, should decide when young children were introduced to such issues. The PG-rated scrap between Disney and DeSantis has taken on national importance given that the governor, posing as a firebrand champion of the common people against oppressively woke corporations, is clearly keen for everyone to know about the stand he has taken as he prepares to challenge Donald Trump for the Republican presidential nomination DeSantis responded to Disney's interference by ending a 55-year-old deal that allowed Disney World to govern its vast resort itself — right down to controlling its own water, roads and emergency services. The deal saved Disney millions of dollars in taxes. Many expected this spat would be brief. After all, Florida couldn't afford to fall out with the state's biggest private employer and crucial cash cow while, with so much invested in the state, Disney couldn't risk permanently antagonising Florida's government. Instead, astonishingly, the war has become seemingly intractable with both sides digging in and apparently relishing the chance to flaunt their social values. The company originally chose Florida as the home of Disney World, which opened in 1971, in large part because the state offered it the status of a self-governing district (the Reedy Creek Improvement District). It certainly helped the resort expand enormously, to the point it now employs nearly 80,000 people. But in February, responding to Disney's attack on the 'Don't Say Gay' law, DeSantis signed a law to strip Disney of control of Reedy Creek.  The governor said the action was aimed at holding Disney accountable for entertainment he says is inappropriate for children. 'The corporate kingdom finally comes to an end,' he proclaimed. 'There's a new sheriff in town, and accountability will be the order of the day.'  He appointed a string of allies to sit on the board that oversees the district and promised to subject Disney to a thorough legal and financial audit. But at the end of March, DeSantis and the new board discovered Disney had pulled a fast one by persuading the old board to hand its power to the company itself. The legal loophole, known as a restrictive covenant, strips the new DeSantis-appointed board of most of its power 'until 21 years after the death of the last survivor of the descendants of King Charles III, King of England living as of the date of this declaration'. This final flourish by the Magic Kingdom in invoking a real kingdom is called a 'Royal Lives Clause' and is still widely used in the UK and Commonwealth to ensure a trust continues as long as possible. DeSantis says the covenant is illegal and has vowed to strike it down. Last week, the governor upped the ante and pointedly noted that he controls the land adjoining Disney World, which could be developed.  'People have said maybe create a state park, maybe try to do more amusements parks, someone even said, like, maybe you need another state prison. Who knows?' said DeSantis, leaving the threat hanging in the air. While the prospect of jailbirds horrifying Disney fans by shouting obscenities at Cinderella and the Little Mermaid may have put a spring in the governor's step, critics on both Right and Left say DeSantis's determination to get Disney is looking increas-ingly vindictive. But in February, responding to Disney's attack on the 'Don't Say Gay' law, DeSantis signed a law to strip Disney of control of Reedy Creek The man once admiringly dubbed 'Trump with a brain', they argue, is now showing voters he has Trump's worst vices as he appears increasingly obsessed.  Disney boss Bob Iger has accused him of being 'not just anti-business but anti-Florida'. Yet having made so much of his fight against Disney, DeSantis can't now back out without damaging his image.  In his memoir, he devotes an entire chapter to 'The Magic Kingdom of Woke Corporatism', explaining how he became increasingly disillusioned with the company as it 'moved beyond mere virtue signalling to liberal activists'.  He says he has come to despise the corporation and Disney World, where he and his wife Casey — who comes from a family of ardent Disney fans — chose to get married in 2009. It's difficult for those who haven't visited it to understand how much of a huge enterprise Disney World has become. It covers 43 square miles of central Florida outside Orlando that includes four theme parks — the Magic Kingdom, Epcot Centre, Disney's Hollywood Studios and Animal Kingdom — as well as myriad other parks, hotels and golf courses.  Disney World visitors complain of the sky-high prices — a single day at Magic Kingdom is more than £150 per person in peak season — but the resort remains immensely popular. The company behind it has certainly come a long way from the days of its founder Uncle Walt. Anti-union, pro-patriotism and pro-Christian, the conservative Mr Disney worked tirelessly to create an entertainment empire that, whether on screen or in theme parks, avoided controversy and instead epitomised family-friendly values. But under the control of current chief executive Bob Iger, Disney has followed the progressive path of many other U.S. corporations. In 2021, it stopped greeting park visitors as 'ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls', replacing that with 'dreamers of all ages'.  It has slapped racism warnings on many of its best-loved films, including Dumbo (for the raucous black crows) and Lady And The Tramp (for the sinister Siamese cats). At its resorts it has ditched Minnie's polka dot dress (replaced with a Stella McCartney-designed trouser suit) and the fairy godmothers in Sleeping Beauty (too exclusionary of men).  Meanwhile, the new live-action film of Snow White, due out next year, has dispensed with the dwarves (to 'avoid reinforcing stereotypes') and will have a Latina actress in the title role. And Mr Iger has vowed to keep challenging DeSantis and his administration. DeSantis, in turn, appears determined to stick to his guns, hoping that his anti-woke crusade against Disney World will benefit him politically.  And, it is true that his supporters are using the battle to sell him to voters beyond Florida. A pro-DeSantis grassroots movement called Never Back Down, for example, has sent a flyer to voters in important primary states that features a cartoon of him wearing boxing gloves as he stands over an opponent he's just knocked to the ground. Look closely and you'll see the vanquished opponent is wearing a mouse nose and whiskers. Whether the strategy will succeed, however, is open to question. Donald Trump — once DeSantis's mentor, now his deadly foe in the race for the Republican nomination — has used the fight to attack him.  'DeSanctus is being absolutely destroyed by Disney,' Trump crowed a few days ago, using his nickname for the governor and predicting catastrophe if Disney decided to pull out of Florida as a result of the row. The latest opinion poll has the ex-president now leading — by 13 points — where back in November he was 14 points behind DeSantis.  The latter certainly blundered by describing the war in Ukraine as a territorial dispute, while enemies have recently been weighing in with claims about his charmless and anti-social behaviour that range from not saying hello to colleagues to eating chocolate pudding with his fingers. However, it's early days in the election race. Trump got a boost from Republican outrage after he was charged in New York with falsifying business records over paying hush money to porn star Stormy Daniels, but that electoral advantage may not last. DeSantis — who hasn't even yet announced he's running — has Rupert Murdoch's media empire behind him after it deserted Trump over his baseless claims that Biden's victory in the 2020 election was fraudulent.  And polls also show that Americans desperately want a different choice to Biden vs Trump next year. Disney might also need to watch out. Anheuser-Busch, makers of low-alcohol Bud Light, has just discovered the risks of over-estimating America's appetite for wokeness.  Hit by a conservative boycott after using transgender social media star Dylan Mulvaney in an advert, the company has semi-apologised and sacked the two marketing bosses deemed responsible. Whatever the case, the battle of The Magic Kingdom is unlikely to have a fairytale ending for either of its warring combatants. 


      What Jill Biden said to Kamala Harris after Joe dropped out is revealed for the first time... after Democrats turned on her husband
    
 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group