Menu The National Weather Service has issued a FLASH FLOOD WARNING for SLO County FROM 5:10 A.M. TO 1:00 P.M. today (3/10) Flash Flood Warning including Cambria CA, Lake Nacimiento CA and San Simeon CA until 1:00 PM PST pic.twitter.com/Z3pMOTLMuU This is a dangerous and life-threatening situation.  Do not attempt to travel unless you are leaving an area subject to flooding or evacuation. Highway Info: Highway 135 was closed just after 6 a.m. Friday from Bell Street to Harris Grade due to mud and flooding.  US 101 NB is closed at Winchester Canyon Rd. due to debris flow north of that location.  US 101 NB is closed at Mariposa Reina due to debris flow north of that location.  Highway 101 is also closed between Highway 150 in Carpinteria to Cabrillo Boulevard in Santa Barbara due to flooding. The northbound lanes of Highway 101 in the Avila Beach Dr. area in San Luis Obispo County is also closed due to flooding.  SR 154 is closed at SR 246 and SR 192 due to multiple rockslides in Santa Barbara County. Use I-5 is an alternate route. The southbound lanes of hwy17 are closed at Glenwood Drive in Santa Cruz County due to a downed tree. Highway 1 is closed in both directions from Education Drive to Yerba Buena Street in San Luis Obispo County due to roadway flooding.  The southbound on-ramp to Hwy. 1 from Hwy. 41 near Morro Bay is also closed due to flooding. Southbound US 101 reduced to one lane due to flooding on right bypass lane from Mussel Shoals to Main St. in Ventura.  Traffic alert 🚨 road closure Southbound SR-17 south of Glenwood Dr. Slide is blocking the roadway pic.twitter.com/lvAcjrhfLT City info: Paso Robles: Atascadero:  As of 6p.m. these roads are closed:  Templeton:  Cambria: San Luis Obispo:NOTE: With 101 closed at Avila Bay Drive North Bound so anyone wanting to head north needs to take Price canyon Road around through SLO. PolyAlert: Students, Faculty and Staff need to evacuate from agriculture facilities, including Cal Poly Creamery, bounding Mt. Bishop Rd. between Stenner Creek Rd. and Highland Dr., especially those living north of Parker Ranch. Shephard's Reservoir is about to breach (1/2) Avila Beach:  Nipomo: Buellton: Los Alamos: Santa Maria: Arroyo Grande: 