HELSINKI — Nordic defense firms are buying each other up as they vie for a greater share of potential contracts that could come with increased cybersecurity funding among the region’s armed forces. The mergers and acquisitions are taking place as Sweden seeks NATO membership, and neighboring Finland this year joined the alliance. Combined, according to defense spending plans, the Nordic states of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden are to invest more than $2 billion to upgrade their respective military and national security cyber defenses over the next three years. Meanwhile, cybersecurity companies are also forming strategic partnerships with the regional armed forces. For example, the Norwegian firm Atea won a two-year information technology and cybersecurity services contract worth $45 million from the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and the Norwegian National Security Authority (NSM). The former is responsible for Norway’s defense research and development efforts, and the latter serves as the country’s national intelligence agency. FFI also operates as a procurement agency for the property-focused Norwegian Defence Estates Agency, the Norwegian Armed Forces and the NSM. Atea signed the first segment of the two-part deal, with a two-year option, in June 2022. The second part of the deal was inked in April 2023. The contract covers the delivery of hardware, software, IT and network cyber defense solutions, and consultancy services. “The deal reflects the greater emphasis on IT network and infrastructure security in national defense areas. The contract reinforces our positive and developing relationship with the defense sector,” said Steinar Sønsteby, CEO of Atea. The appetite for strategic corporate partners in the Nordic cybersecurity domain gained momentum in 2022 following a far-reaching nonequity collaborative agreement between Finnish software specialist Digia and Danish cybersecurity technologies provider Arbit Cyber Defence Systems. The collaboration was instrumental in securing a $6 million contract to build a protected information-exchange gateway for the Finnish Defence Forces, said Jussi Tammelin, the director of Digia’s defense unit. The contract includes the supply of a secure information-exchange gateway communication solution, as well as software and equipment. The technology is based on Digia’s Linja software and Arbit’s data diode. “Our collaboration with Arbit reinforces the capabilities of our defense and security sector services in the Nordic countries. International cooperation improves the competitiveness of both companies when it comes to defense sector tenders and increases defense sector exports,” Tammelin told Defense News. In 2022, Digia accelerated its plan to establish a dedicated defense unit, after it became clear Sweden and Finland intended to apply for NATO membership. Nordic countries must do more to strengthen their cybersecurity against increasing threats, said Natasha Friis Saxberg, the CEO of Danish ICT Industry Association, a trade organization representing information and communication technology firms. According to Saxberg, the pooling of Nordic skill sets in this area, driven by the wave of cybersecurity mergers and acquisitions, is beneficial to developing a deeper pan-Nordic expertise to counter cyberthreats. “A significant number of the cyberattacks emanating from Russia and linked to the invasion of Ukraine are directed at Denmark and the other Nordic countries. Today, cyberthreats play a significant role in every war and conflict, and therefore it is necessary to invest in cybersecurity and make it a central element of our defense,” Saxberg told Defense News Acquisitions — such as Swedish firm Lyvia’s takeover of Polish company IT Systems and Solution — underline a trend where major players in the Nordic cybersecurity space with the financial means are looking to use such purchases to consolidate the market and accelerate regional growth. That acquisition by Lyvia is expected to help the company gain greater access to even larger contracts in the defense and national security sphere. The purchase also improves Lyvia’s reach in to the Baltic region as well as Central and Eastern Europe, according to Oleksandr Fomenko, who leads the business’s Central and Eastern European division. “We want to expand in this high-growth sector. ITSS is a large player in a fast-growing industry with top-drawer, end-to-end cybersecurity services and impressive IT infrastructure modernization resources,” Fomenko told Defense News. Similarly, Norwegian cybersecurity company DNV’s $107 million purchase of Finnish firm Nixu was motivated by a desire to win more contracts, while taking advantage of increasing investments by Nordic governments to upgrade and maintain next-generation cyber defenses and more reliable IT infrastructure. Nordic Council seeks deeper regional cybersecurity cooperation DNV’s cybersecurity expertise has historically focused on high-security areas in energy, maritime, telecommunications and financial services. “By joining forces with Nixu, we will make cyberspace a more secure place with greater impact than either company could achieve alone,” said Remi Eriksen, DNV’s chief executive. Other industrial acquisitions in the region included Sweden’s Truesec buying Danish firm Venzo Cyber Security. And Ireland-based Integrity360 acquired Sweden’s Netsecure. In Denmark, Columbus purchased ICY Security, while in neighboring Norway, Netsecurity acquired Data Equipment to create a new cybersecurity group with revenues of $74 million. The acquisition of Venzo will allow Truesec to strengthen its cybersecurity offerings to both the corporate and national defense sectors in Denmark and the wider Nordic region, said Anna Averud, Truesec’s chief executive. “The acquisition significantly enhances our cyber defense capabilities. It expands our capability to better defend cyberattacks. The pooling of our cyberspecialists with Venzo will make a significant difference in creating a safer society for all organizations in Denmark and Northern Europe,” Averud told Defense News. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.