HATBORO, PA —While the construction of a new Wawa convenience store is on one side of the road, a historic property on the other side of Horsham Road will be preserved. The Old Mill —otherwise known as the Pennypack Mill —has seen a lot of history since its establishment in 1724. And the building on 18 Horsham Rd. will continue to witness the borough's history for years to come. Hatboro Borough Council held a public hearing at its meeting late last month and then unanimously approved adding the 18 Horsham Rd. property to the Borough of Hatboro Historic Registry. The building is the oldest structure still standing in Hatboro and one of the oldest mills in Pennsylvania. Built in 1724 as a grist mill and restored to its original rustic elegance in 2016, the four-story fieldstone building sits along the Pennypack Creek. The restoration exposed all of the original wood beams, wood columns, and three fireplaces. The Dungworth Mill was named for Emmanuel Dungworth, owner and builder of the mill. Dungworth's parents were both from Yorkshire, England.  During the Revolutionary War, circa 1777, Gen. George Washington used the grain from the mill to feed his troops while fighting the Battle of Germantown and in 1778 during the Battle of Crooked Billet. Washington was said to have visited the mill on his way to meet with Lafayette in Hartsville.  The mill —also known through the years as the Yerkes Mill and the Pennypack Mill —operated as a grist mill until 1912.  At that time, it became the "Hatboro Machine Works," which refinished rollers for other grist mills. The building is the only mill on the Pennypack Creek to still have its 'Hurst Frame' intact.  The Hurst Frame held all the running gears of the water mill so that the stone building would not be shaken down by the rumbling vibration. In 1918 the mill became a tea house that could only be open in the summer since it was impossible to economically heat the building. During the 1930s, the building was renovated by John Cororan, a famous radio newscaster, who operated a restaurant in the mill. The Pennypack Mill these days hosts weddings, special events, and corporate functions today. Meanwhile, across the street, Wawa is building a new 5,585-square-foot convenience storethat may open sometime in November or early December. Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.