Monday, August 19, 2024 By Herald Staff January 11, 2023 • UPDATED 7/21/23 WILDWOOD – A North Cape May couple was charged for alleged possession and distribution of heroin and cocaine after they were found passed out in a vehicle in the parking lot of the Wawa on Rio Grande Avenue.
On Jan. 3, at approximately 10:49 p.m., Wildwood Police Department officers responded to a call at the Wawa reporting two people sleeping inside a parked vehicle.
The officers arrived on the scene and found Cristine Pagan-Perez, 35, and Kenneth Lopez-Atiles, 29, slumped over in their seats. Officers also observed what appeared to be drug paraphernalia in plain view, including a spoon with burned residue. Believing the occupants of the vehicle were suffering from a narcotics overdose, the Wildwood Fire Department was called to the scene.
According to information released by the Wildwood Police Department, both occupants regained consciousness on their own; however, Wildwood Fire Department personnel remained on the scene as a precaution.
During the investigation, both occupants admitted they were in possession of drug paraphernalia and suspected controlled dangerous substances (CDS) – cocaine and heroin.
Police said a search of the vehicle yielded more than 600 bags of suspected heroin and cocaine, as well as more than $2,000. The investigation led the officers to believe that both occupants were actively engaged in the distribution of illegal narcotics, specifically suspected heroin. All items were collected on scene and submitted as evidence.
As a result of this investigation, both occupants were taken into custody and transported to police headquarters. Pagan-Perez was charged with two counts of third-degree possession of cocaine/heroin and second-degree possession with the intent to distribute heroin. Lopez-Atiles was also charged with two counts of third-degree possession of cocaine/heroin, second-degree possession with the intent to distribute heroin, and possession of CDS paraphernalia, a disorderly persons offense.
Pagan-Perez and Lopez-Atiles were incarcerated at the Cape May County Correctional Facility in accordance with the Attorney General Guidelines, in connection with the Criminal Justice Bail Reform Policies and Directives.
The defendants were charged after a finding of probable cause and are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. Ocean City – Geez… reading 99.9% of your spouts is like reading a novel. Chill  out. Read More Court House – I urge a NO vote on middle township's school bond. A lot of the money goes to sports and recreation, not to learning skills our students need. There are many recreational opportunities students… Read More Sea Isle City – Sea Isle City regarding the spouter about the Community Center without a pool. We have a pool at the end of the Street. Could you imagine what it would of cost you in your tax dollars, but wait you… Read More stay in the know capemaycountyherald.com1508 Route 47Rio Grande, NJ 08242609-886-8600admin@cmcherald.com © All rights reserved