You’ve heard of TGIF, but have you heard TGIFDF (Thank God It’s Flash Deal Fridays), or the slightly longer version, TGIFBIMICSWFDF (Thank God It’s Friday Because It Means I Can Shop Wayfair’s Flash Deal Fridays)?  If you were here last week, you know the drill; welcome back, and a very happy and heartfelt TGIFBIMICSWFDF, from us to you.  If you didn’t manage to catch last week’s Flash Deal Friday sale from Wayfair, don’t fret! Last week, this week, and for the next few Fridays, Wayfair is offering huge, one-day-only savings on chairs, mirrors, stools, tables, cabinets, and more. Each week highlights a different portion of Wayfair’s enormous selection. This week, Jan. 27, Wayfair’s Flash Deal Friday event features tons of artwork and wallpaper, all at huge discounts, alongside all the stuff you’d expect from a Wayfair sale. Fancy a trip to the gallery, all from the comfort of your own home? What about if we can guarantee you the painting you’re about to buy is at its lowest price ever?  Read on, click through, and as Wayfair urges, “Shop like you mean it.”  Do you have the time? It’s time to replace your accent chair. Our pick to refresh your bedroom, office, or sitting room is this Ethelsville Upholstered Accent Chair from Hashtag Home, also available in gray, green, rose, and more.  In this photo, unlike in Robert Frost’s famous poem, there’s only one road in the woods (plus the wood is a little foggier than it is yellow). But it’s fitting, because to our mind, there’s only one option on how to proceed after seeing this photograph, and that price.  Add a little more storage to your kitchen, for less, with this Lewisberg 47″ Kitchen Pantry from Andover Mills, also available in oak, mahogany, gray, and more.  For today only, Wayfair is offering 31% off the list price of this Middlefield Peel & Stick Floral Wallpaper from Bayou Breeze. Just looking at the above picture calms us down, we can hardly image how serene we’d feel in a room full of it, and knowing that we nabbed such a great deal.  Unique kitchen and dining room storage is right around the corner, and it’s 47% off. As an accent piece, and as a functional bit of furniture, this Eugene Three Drawer Server is a steal at just $233.  This huge Levatt Arch Metal Mirror is 34% off today only at Wayfair. At 63″ tall, and with a unique arched frame, this mirror would work great in smaller spaces and larger ones alike.  Frankly, we love this work’s title, “Morning Chorus.” More than the title, we love what it depicts: blue and brown birds sitting lightly on branches. Perhaps more than the title or the subject, we love the price: just $67. This Friday, Wayfair is offering this Atoka Geometric Wallpaper from Mercury Row for an astounding 53% off. You might need to buy a bigger house just to take advantage of this deal.  When we look back, our collection of memories includes the many great deals we took advantage of, and recommended to our readers. This deal, on the “Collection of Memories” Wrapped Graphic Art piece, is certainly one to remember.  Last but certainly not least is this handsome Minburn 24″ End Table from Winston Porter, available for just $116 this Flash Deal Friday. Also available in red, espresso, and more.  Check out New York Post Shopping for more content.