Spring is right around the corner, and what better way to celebrate than sprucing up your space. Whether your idea of spring cleaning is hitting the refresh button on your home decor or combating dust bunnies with a high-powered vacuum, one thing's for sure: This Wayfair sale is here to help. The mega e-tailer just kicked off its surprise Spring Savings Sale, so you can save up to 70% on all of your home's necessities. Though Wayfair is known for offering awesome daily discounts, it's not every day you can score 25% off a Roomba, buy an upholstered bed for under $200, or snag a sectional for nearly half off. (Talk about starting the season on the right foot.)  Technically, you have a week to shop, but if we know anything about Wayfair sales, it's that the very best pieces sell out faster than you can take off your heavy winter parka. So, let's hop to it, shall we? To make your shopping easier, we picked the 20 best deals from Wayfair's massive inventory.  "Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links."Shop the Spring 2023 Wayfair Sale this week and take up 60% off furniture, mattresses, outdoor decor, bedding and more. Here are 20 editor-approved finds. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.