Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Kaylyn McKenna, 
                              
              Carolin Lehmann
 
    Edited By
                        
              Fox Van Allen
 
Updated on:  July 13, 2023 / 2:37 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           The Wayfair Back to College Sale is on now, but these deals aren't just for students. Right now, when you shop Wayfair, you can save a whopping 60% off tons of Wayfair furniture, kitchen staples and more. Whether you're going off to college next month or just looking to upgrade your own home furnishings, there are plenty of deals to shop at Wayfair now.    If you've been dreaming of a makeover, this is your chance to upgrade every room in your home or apartment without breaking the bank. But hurry -- these big Wayfair deals won't last.    Top products in this article Arturs desk, $140 (reduced from $190) Cuisinart Perfectemp 14-cup coffee maker, $100 (reduced from $185) Cuisinart Professional Series 11-piece stainless steel cookware set, $220 (reduced from $615) Save on a new mattress, desk and more for your college apartment, dorm or home. This mesh ergonomic desk chair is designed for maximum comfort during long study session or home office workdays. It features a backrest that helps maintain the natural curve of the spine, reliable lumbar support and a three-degree curved seat. Rated 4.4 stars. "I have been working from home full-time and sit in it all day long. It is quite comfortable." shared on reviewer on Wayfair. "I am happy to report that I have had no problems with it. It was easy to assemble, too!" Inbox Zero ergonomic mesh task chair, $79 (reduced from $160)  If you're in need of a new desk for studying or working from home, you won't want to miss this deal. This wood desk features a durable metal frame with gold accents and two convenient shelves for storage. Rated 4.7 stars. Arturs desk, $140 (reduced from $190)  If you're in need of a new mattress for the new school year, check out this deal on the Nora hybrid mattresses. The mattress is 12-inches thick and features temperature-regulating technology.            It's up to 50% off at Wayfair now. Prices vary based on mattress size. Rated 4.4 stars. Nora 12" medium hybrid mattress (twin), $380 (reduced from $899)  This pine dining table comfortably seats four people. It's made from sustainably harvested pine wood and features a distressed finish. Rated 4.3 stars. Amarapal pine wood trestle dining table, $306 (reduced from $725)  If you're in the market for a new sofa, then look no further: This beautiful AllModern sectional is currently 49% off at Wayfair. The upholstered sectional features a chaise lounge that can be moved to the left or right side of the sofa.      The sectional features hand-built frames made with ultra-durable, solid kiln-dried hardwood. Rated 4.5 stars. AllModern Concord 2-piece upholstered sectional, $1,180 (reduced from $2,299)  Save big on tons of kitchen items at Wayfair. There are great deals on cookware, small appliances and more for your dorm room or kitchen.    A reliable coffee maker is a must-have for college, and thankfully this top-rated brewer is on sale now. The Keurig K-Elite coffee maker is one of the best coffee makers of 2023. Not only can the top-rated coffee appliance make a single cup of coffee at a time, but it also features a 75-ounce water reservoir so you can make cups of coffee for everyone in your family.      The device features a strong brew button, an iced coffee setting and hot water on demand, perfect for making tea and hot chocolate for those cool summer nights. Rated 4.4 stars. Keurig K-Elite coffee maker, $150 (reduced from $190)  This programmable 14-cup coffee maker by Cuisinart is great for busy households that prefer traditional drip coffee. You can adjust the flavor and temperature settings to fit your preferences and then set it to brew at the desired time so your coffee is ready when you get up. Rated 4.6 stars. Cuisinart Perfectemp 14-cup coffee maker, $86 (reduced from $185)  Whip up some fun frozen treats for your friends and family with this professional-grade at-home ice cream maker. Make soft serve, ice cream, sherbet and yogurt with this on-sale device. Plus, add your favorite mix-ins to customize your summer treats.     Right now, you can get it for 57% off. Rated 4.3 stars. Cusinart Mix It In soft serve ice cream maker, $104 (reduced from $240)  This Cuisinart Professional Series 11-piece stainless-steel cookware set is currently a whopping 64% off.     The set includes one 8-inch nonstick skillet, one 10-inch open skillet, a 2-quart covered saucepan with a steamer insert, a 3-quart saucepan with straining cover, a 3-quart covered saute pan with helper handle and an 8-quart covered stockpot. Rated 4.7 stars. Cuisinart Professional Series 11-piece stainless steel cookware set, $219 (reduced from $615)  You can also save on the 13-piece version. This Cuisinart set includes a Dutch oven and a lid.     Cuisinart Professional Series 13-piece stainless steel cookware set, $229 (reduced from $750)  This 5.5-quart Cuisinart mixer is a versatile kitchen gadget perfect for all cooking or baking enthusiasts. It features 12 speeds and can be used for baking, making homemade pasta, mixing ice cream, grinding up meats and more.     It comes with three accessories: a dough hook, a flat beater and a whisk. Rated 4.7 stars. Cuisinart 12-speed stand mixer, $179 (reduced from $460)  The Vitamix Explorian blender is another one of Wayfair's hottest kitchen deals. The kitchen gadget features a 48-ounce container and sturdy, aircraft-grade, stainless-steel blades.      The Vitamix E310 Explorian blender offers 10 different speeds, including a pulse feature. Rated 4.7 stars. Vitamix E310 Explorian blender, $300 (reduced from $450)  Kaylyn McKenna is an expert on deals, travel, luggage, home and more for CBS Essentials. When she's not scouring the internet for the best deals on new luggage or robot vacuums, she spends time with her goldendoodle, Harley, 
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          Hinge and Bumble are two of the most popular dating apps of 2024. We compare the two to see which is better.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the New Orleans Saints face the San Francisco 49es for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the Green Bay Packers face the Denver Broncos for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Labor Day weekend will mark the end of the summer travel season. Here's how Americans are capping it off.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          As Democrats gather in Chicago for their national convention, parallels to the turbulent 1968 Democratic National Convention are apparent.
         
          Three presidents, leaders in Congress and other prominent members of the party are expected to address the Democratic National Convention.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Rep. Jennifer McClellan, a Democrat from Virginia, joins CBS News from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris' campaign against former President Donald Trump.
         
          An initial impeachment inquiry report released by House Republicans alleges President Biden engaged in abuse of power and obstruction of justice in connection to financial dealings involving Hunter Biden and family associates. CBS News congressional correspondent Nikole Killion reports.
         
          George Santos, the former New York congressman, pleaded guilty to two federal felony counts and faces around six to eight years in prison. CBS News' Scott MacFarlane was in court for the proceedings.
         
          Former New York Rep. George Santos pleaded guilty Monday to two federal felony charges for wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. CBS News congressional correspondent Scott MacFarlane has the latest.
         
          Two women from Oxford, Connecticut, were swept away by rushing water from flash flooding after heavy rains hit parts of the Northeast, according to a local official. CBS News' Nikki Battiste reports from Sandy Hook, and CBS News Bay Area meteorologist Zoe Mintz looks at what's ahead with the weather forecast.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.