West Branch and Alliance’s wrestling teams treated a large crowd in Harry Fails Gymnasium to a heart-pounding match that wasn’t decided until the last bout Thursday evening. When the smoke cleared, it was the visiting Warriors who posted a hard-earned 42-31 triumph over the Aviators. “It was a good win,” said West Branch coach Chris Dorris. “The bonus points are always big, especially when we’re giving up two forfeits already. The bonus points are really what saved us.” “It was exciting for the crowd, we knew it would be close,” said Alliance coach Marcus Lambdin. “Unfortunately, we had some scratches for weights, so the forfeits we knew we were getting from them, we, unfortunately, gave them right back [via pins].” With West Branch holding a slim 36-31 lead heading into the final match, Warrior 175-pounder Hudson Brink came back from nearly being pinned at the end of the first period, which would have won the team match for Alliance, to pinning Alliance’s Ben Hall in 3:14, locking up the team triumph for the Warriors. Brink, ranked 13th in the state at 175, talked of his seesaw match that had fans from both schools riding a wave of emotions. “The coaches told me to kick him [out] after my first three or four takedowns and I just wasn’t expecting it [being put on his back and nearly pinned],” he said. “He [Hall] kind of came out of nowhere with that.” Given a new opportunity after being saved by the first-period buzzer, Brink decided the issue, pinning Hall in 3:14. “He just had to slow down, wrestle his match, be under control and we were good,” said Dorris. “It [nearly being pinned after holding a big lead] shouldn’t have happened in the first place and I won’t be that sloppy again,” said Brink. Brink said he has one goal this season and that’s getting to Columbus. “I definitely want to go to state,” he remarked. “That’s been a big goal since my freshman year. It’s every wrestler’s dream.” Lambdin was thrilled to see Hall take on the challenge of wrestling the favored Brink. “Ben Hall wrestled two matches tonight [JV and varsity],” said Lambdin. “We knew he was a wild card, he knew what he had [in Brink]) and he gave us a chance and he was willing to do it [wrestle two matches]. We played coy there a little bit, we didn’t show our hand. I thought [Brink] thought he was going to get a forfeit, so you roll a freshman out there against a kid that is that good.” Both teams won seven matches each but West Branch captured six of its seven victories by bonus-point pins, which was the difference in the outcome. In fact, all of West Branch’s seven wins (six pins and one forfeit) were of the six-point variety. Along with Brink’s match-deciding pin, other Warriors capturing triumphs by pinball were Nate Hang (120 pounds), Gavin Chapman (132), Clayton Day (144), Trenton Stryffeler (165) and Garrett Grimm (285). Winning his match by forfeit was West Branch’s Michael Dorris (126). “Obviously, Hudson’s win was nice,” said Dorris. “And Clayton Day was excellent tonight and Nate Hang got the pin at 120, which got us going.” Alliance was led by standouts Jackson Eddy, who won by a 1:39 pin of West Branch’s Nate Summers at 190, and Aiden Mozden, who recently won a Top Gun championship and recorded a 11-3 decision over Warrior Gavin Hang. Mozden is ranked third in Ohio at 215, and Eddy is ranked 15th at 190. Winning by decisions for the Aviators were Johnny Beltz at 138, Rayden Carver at 150 and Quinn Callock at 157. Alliance also got forfeits for Jase Kaiser at 106 and Carter Keenan at 113. “I thought the kids that wrestled off wrestled hard, so they showed a lot of growth in that,” said Lambdin. “For a young team that has seven freshmen in the lineup, that’s what you’re looking for every week — we’ve gotta grow.” “Alliance is good, they’re a formidable opponent,” said Dorris. “They have some really good kids — Jackson Eddy’s really good, I love Aiden Mozden and Rayden Carver, those kids are great kids.” How close was the match? The team lead actually changed hands six times during the evening before Stryffeler’s pin at 165 gave West Branch the lead for good at 36-31. Brink iced the team win one match later with his pin. With the win, West Branch improved to 9-8 on the season and 1-2 in the Eastern Buckeye Conference.With the setback, Alliance is now 0-3 in conference action. Both Alliance and West Branch will participate in the Eastern Ohio Wrestling League Tournament at Austintown Fitch High School this weekend. “It [the EOWL] is a great tournament,” said Lambdin. “We’re not going to take these young guys [the freshmen]. They’ve been bruised and battered all year and really have done a nice job in the varsity lineup, so we’re going to save those guys for some competition against some other freshmen. All the upperclassmen who are in the lineup will travel [to EOWL]. We’re just not going to take the freshmen, we just have to develop them.” West Branch’s Dorris is also looking forward to seeing his team compete at the EOWL. “Let’s go get it [the EOWL],” said Dorris. “We want that Division II title back, we lost it last year for the first time in three years and we want it back.” This article originally appeared on The Alliance Review: The West Branch wrestling team defeated the Alliance Aviators Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL.