It's make or break for Wrexham in season 2 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Welcome to Wrexham season 2 is over! The second season wrapped up on November 14 with a... well, you'll need to watch to see if Wrexham finally get their Hollywood ending. Luckily, you can stream all 15 episodes from season 2 right now on Hulu in the U.S., Apple TV Plus in Canada and Disney Plus just about everywhere else. Welcome to Wrexham season 2 episodes 1-15 are all available to stream now on Hulu in the U.S., Apple TV Plus in Canada and Disney Plus everywhere else.
• U.S. — Watch on Hulu
• Watch live anywhere — try ExpressVPN 100% risk-free This season, Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney are feeling the pressure. They need the money that comes with promotion to League Two to ensure that they can keep running the club and work towards their goal of one day competing in the Premier League. And as the season has progressed, that goal is in sight but the stress has never been greater. It could all still fall apart. Oh, and if you want to get a jump on Welcome to Wrexham season 3 and watch Wrexham games live, check out our guide on how to watch Wrexham live streams from anywhere. We think speed, security and simplicity make ExpressVPN second to none. During our tests, we saw fast connection times, and we're impressed by the service's ability to access more than 3,000 services spread out across 160 locations in 94 countries. There's a 30-day money-back guarantee if you're not satisfied. If you're away from home and don't get Hulu and can't watch Welcome to Wrexham season 2, you don't have to miss it. Using the best VPN makes it so that you can appear to be surfing the web from your home town, so you can access the same streaming services you already pay for. Here's how easy it is to stream TV from anywhere in the world: 1. Get a VPN (we recommend ExpressVPN as the best out there)
2. Connect to the location you want to stream from
3. Use your usual streaming service and watch like normal Exclusive Tom's Guide Discount: Save 49% on the 12-month ExpressVPN plan Welcome to Wrexham season 2 episode 15 premiered on Tuesday, November 14 on FX. That means episodes 1-15 are now all available to stream on Hulu. FX is part of many cable packages and can be added if yours doesn't have it. If you've cut the cord, you can find FX on two of the best streaming services: Fubo and Sling TV.  But while it's included in Fubo's regular package, Sling TV customers need to have Sling Blue (starts at $40 per month). FX is also on some of the best cable TV alternatives, including Hulu with Live TV and YouTube TV. You can get FX in Sling TV Blue, which starts at $40 per month. Sling Blue also includes the USA network, TBS, Food Network, the NFL Network and Lifetime. Fubo: One of the best streaming services with FX, Fubo has all of the right network channels and the two cable channels you don't want to go without. Who needs cable? Not Fubo subscribers. It's got a 7-day free trial so you don't need to pay up front. Ah, corporate synergy. Hulu isn't available outside of the U.S., but Disney Plus is, and episodes will be available on Disney Plus the day after they air on FX in the U.S.  Disney Plus costs £7.99 per month and £79.90 per year in the UK while Australians have the option of paying AU$13.99 per month or AU$139.99 per year. There is one wrinkle though. For some reason, Canadians are forced to get Apple TV Plus to watch Welcome to Wrexham, despite it being on Disney Plus in seemingly every country outside the U.S. That will set you back $12.99 CAD a month.  Luckily, Apple TV Plus has tons of other great shows available, so it'll be money well spent. It's personally my favorite streaming service out there besides Max. Americans abroad could just use the service of their choice, provided they log in via a VPN such as ExpressVPN.  Spoilers for Welcome to Wrexham seasons 1 and 2 ahead The first trailer for Welcome to Wrexham season 2 has landed, and it shows how things have changed for the team since the world's eyes fell upon them. While things are mostly positive, the pressure mounts when King Charles comes calling. Not that the pressure was ever gone though, as Wrexham will need to escape the doldrums of the National League this season in order to survive financially. Then there's a newer trailer: Rooting for The Town. The Town is a term used to affectionately refer to the town of Wrexham, and while football may be the main focus of Welcome to Wrexham, the Welsh town itself is also incredibly important. It's struggle for survival and relevance in a post-industrial U.K. often mirrors the struggle of the team, and like the team, it's nearly impossible not to root for The Town. Over Labor Day weekend, the Welcome to Wrexham trailers started to really flood YouTube. First, there was More Pressure than Ever, highlighting the immense pressure Reynolds and McElhenney are under to secure promotion to the English Football League Two. This is touched on in the first season 2 trailer, but More Pressure than Ever underscores it. As one Wrexham fan says in the trailer, "Yeah, you can just feel now there's stakes here." After More Pressure than Ever, things take a more optimistic tone with Coming Together, the fourth trailer for season 2. While the trailer talks about how special this journey has been for Reynolds and McElhenney, the real highlight of the trailer is the focus on the Wrexham Women's team, who look set to feature in season 2 alongside the Men's first team.  If those previous four trailers didn't get you hyped — and if they didn't I'm truly shocked — then Anthem certainly will. This looks set to be the final trailer before season 2 debuts and is just pure hype for the upcoming season of Welcome to Wrexham. It won't tell you anything you don't already know, but it will get you inspired.  As a documentary, the cast for Welcome to Wrexham depends on real-life events, who consents to be interviewed, etc. We can assume that Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney will return, as well as several members of the team. The show will likely also continue to feature members from its community of supporters. Billed cast from Welcome to Wrexham season 1 who look set to return in season 2:  The first season of Welcome to Wrexham starts with Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney partnering up to buy Wrexham A.F.C. — the third-oldest football club in the world. Unfortunately, despite its prestigious history, Wrexham had been mismanaged into oblivion, a.k.a. The English National League.  Enter McElhenney, who between the documentary series Sunderland Til’ I Die and the encouragement of his Mythic Quest writer’s room companion Humphrey Ker, found himself wanting to own a football club. McElhenney, while incredibly successful due to his show It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, wasn’t movie star successful — or movie star wealthy. So he reached out to Reynolds and after maximum effort, the gang bought a football team. The rest of the season focused on what happens once Reynolds and McElhenney own the club. They have to bring in front office staff and coaches and fix the grounds, all of which takes incredible effort and money. Adding real stakes to the venture, the pair will actually lose money every season the club fails to get promoted to the next tier of the English football pyramid — the English Football League Two. In the end, Wrexham goes on a Cinderella run. Reynolds and McElhenny take the team from 20th prior to their takeover to 8th in just one season. Then, in the 2021-2022 season, they make it all the way to 2nd place, earning a spot in the National League promotion playoff. But ultimately they fall just short. Wrexham falls to Grimsby Town in a brutal playoff loss and loses a chance at silverware in the FA Trophy final against Bromley. Still, the club — and the town of Wrexham itself — have never felt more hopeful.  Okay, seriously. One last chance. Because it's a documentary, we have a really good idea of how Welcome to Wrexham season 2 will go. So if you don't want to know what happens, please skip ahead. I'm begging you. Okay, ready? Good. Wow. What a season. Wrexham are Vanarama National League champions. The Wrexham lads won promotion on the second to last matchday of the season after beating Boreham Wood 3-1 — with Paul Rudd in attendance. This means that the current season of football has Wrexham returning to the English Football League as a member of the EFL League Two, a massive accomplishment. But for Welcome to Wrexham season 2, we will stay in the National League to watch Wrexham's title run. And this season of roaring highs was not without drama. Despite an incredible season that saw Wrexham win it all, they had to fend off an incredible Notts County team that could very well follow Wrexham to the EFL. Plus, the National League wasn't the only competition Wrexham participated in this season. The FA Cup and FA Trophy will almost certainly take up some of the screen time in season 2, especially since Wrexham striker Paul Mullin scored more goals in the FA Cup than any other player. We should also see some games from the Wrexham AFC Women based on the trailers so far. This might include a thrilling 6-0 thrashing of CPDM Y Felinheli that saw one Wrexham player score four goals. In fact, McElhenney all but confirmed via tweet that the Wrexham AFC Women will make an appearance in season 2. Makes a lot of sense given that the Wrexham Women just won the Genero Adran North League and won promotion to the Adran Premier League following a playoff victory against Briton Ferry. A Royal visit to the Racecourse Ground this morning🔴⚪ #WxmAFC | 📸 @GTPhotography_1 pic.twitter.com/AK4tZdRSsFDecember 9, 2022 And it wouldn't be a TV show without a special cameo. In Welcome to Wrexham season 2, we will see the royal family visit the Racecourse Ground — specifically King Charles III and Camilla, the Queen Consort. Most likely their visit won't take up much of the season, or even a whole episode, but it will certainly be interesting to see Reynolds and McElhenney handling such a high-profile visit. Unfortunately for Wrexham fans, the off-field drama regarding the stadium continues in the background. Wrexham was denied funding from the U.K. government to rebuild "The Kop," an end of the stadium that has been planned for renovation. The club is also still awaiting the Wrexham Supporters Trust to surrender the lease to the Racecourse Ground stadium back to the club, which is sure to generate some tension. It's unclear if any of this will make it into season 2, however. Finally, Wrexham came to the U.S. this summer. However, we don't expect this U.S. summer tour storyline to make it into the show until season three. Even if the U.S. tour doesn't make it into season 2 of Welcome to Wrexham, America will almost certainly make an appearance. Wrexham's fourth-round FA Cup fixture against Sheffield United took place on the same day as the Philadelphia Eagle's NFC Championship game, so It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia star McElhenney stayed stateside to watch Wrexham at an Eagles tailgate while Reynolds went over to Wales to put in an appearance in the owner's box.  Well, we certainly got the royal visit faster than expected. Episode 1 was a big one — over 40 minutes — and so far it's mostly great. The first episode focused on both the royal visit and Reynolds and McElhenney's goal of restoring the Racecourse Ground as well as the beginning of Wrexham's 2022-2023 National League campaign.

The show still packs plenty of drama and feel-good moments. The biggest problem so far? Episode 1 probably needed to be two episodes, as the drama was undercut by switching back and forth between the two storylines. Given that future episodes will be half-hour episodes, the hope is that these shorter runtimes will allow Welcome to Wrexham to focus on one story per episode. If it does, there's no reason to expect season 2 won't be just as enjoyable as season 1. Spoiler alert: Having now seen episodes 2 and 3, I can tell you that the show definitely gets back to what made it great in season 1. And the following few episodes have largely been good as well, though like any show there are still some lulls. Still, it's clear that the formula still works in season 2, so start watching now.  Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Malcolm McMillan is a senior writer for Tom's Guide, covering all the latest in streaming TV shows and movies. That means news, analysis, recommendations, reviews and more for just about anything you can watch, including sports! If it can be seen on a screen, he can write about it. Previously, Malcolm had been a staff writer for Tom's Guide for over a year, with a focus on artificial intelligence (AI), A/V tech and VR headsets.  Before writing for Tom's Guide, Malcolm worked as a fantasy football analyst writing for several sites and also had a brief stint working for Microsoft selling laptops, Xbox products and even the ill-fated Windows phone. He is passionate about video games and sports, though both cause him to yell at the TV frequently. He proudly sports many tattoos, including an Arsenal tattoo, in honor of the team that causes him to yell at the TV the most. 3 top new shows to stream this week on Netflix, Apple TV and more (Aug. 19-25) How to watch 'Love Island USA' season 6 reunion show online and from anywhere — date, time No, not push-ups — here's one exercise you need to strengthen your upper body without weights Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 