Global site navigation Local editions The Electrical and Electronics Engineering course is a career path chosen by many secondary school leavers. This can be attributed to the high demand for electronic engineers in technology and other industries. The demand has been predicted to grow at unprecedented rates in future as new technologies emerge.  Electrical and electronic engineering is a rapidly growing engineering discipline that incorporates the principles of electrical energy and electronics. Successful graduants possess adept knowledge and skills in electrical technology and mechanisms. A career in electronics engineering offers a range of career paths.  If you wish to enrol in the certificate course, you must have attained a minimum grade of D+ in KCSE with at least a D plain in Mathematics and Physics/Chemistry. The minimum entry requirements for a diploma course is a mean grade of C minus at KCSE with a D+ in Mathematics and Physics/Physical Sciences.  Read also Laboratory Science courses, requirements, and colleges offered To be considered for the degree course, you should have attained a mean grade of C+ in KCSE. In addition, you should also have scored a minimum of C+ in the cluster subjects, namely Physics, Chemistry, and English/Kiswahili.  The electrical and electronics engineering syllabus covers various topics, including power systems, electrical supply and distribution, magnetic devices, control systems, radio communication, industrial automation, and others.  The duration of the course varies depending on the level of study. The degree course lasts for four or five years, depending on the institution. Each year is divided into two semesters. A diploma course lasts for 6 semesters or three years. The certificate course lasts for three semesters.  Several colleges and universities across the country offer certificate, diplomas, or degrees in Electrical and Electronics Engineering. Here are some of the institutions where you can pursue this course.  Read also Is Mechanical Engineering marketable in Kenya? Careers and salaries This is one of the best public universities in the country. The Department of Electrical and Information Engineering offers the Bsc. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering course. This course has been designed to meet the needs of the industry as expressed by various stakeholders.  The program aims to equip learners with the relevant skills and knowledge for them to be competent engineers in the field of electrical and electronics engineering.  This is a chartered university based in Nairobi. The engineering degree is designed to leverage Strathmore's reputation for academic excellence and produce highly qualified and ethical electrical engineers. At the end of the training program, graduates gain a hands-on, practical understanding of electrical and electronics systems.  Electrical engineering is one of the most competitive programs amongst students seeking admission to the institution. The School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering offers both diploma and Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering course over four years.  Read also List of certificate courses offered at KIST and qualifications The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering offers both certificate and Bsc. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering. Its mission is to train competent electrical engineers for socio-economic development. Successful graduates can further their education by enrolling in the Master of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering course.  MMUST is the only engineering school in the Western Kenya region. The institution offers a diploma in electrical and electronics engineering course under the Department of Electrical and Communications Engineering. The tuition fee is Kshs. 40,000 per semester. The course objective is to produce engineers that meet the expectations of the labour market.  This is a chartered university established by the Kenyan government in 2013. The electrical and electronics engineering course is offered by the Faculty of Electrical and Electronics Engineering. This program aims to nurture graduates who are highly sought after in the industry.  Read also 20 best science courses for female students to study at university Machakos University is a preferred university of excellence in scholarship and service delivery. It offers a Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering course on its main campus. The institution also offers this course at the certificate and diploma levels.  The School of Engineering and Technology offers this course. The institution provides excellent training and research at the undergraduate level, thereby contributing to the development of the electronic engineering sector in the country.  It aims to produce engineers who are professionally recognized in their areas of specialization. Successful graduates of the program can enrol in the Msc. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering course.  The course is offered in the School of Electrical, Electronics, & Information Technology. This course aims to produce quality electrical and electronics engineering graduates with extensive hands-on experience.  Read also Is Computer Science marketable in Kenya? What you need to know During the first three years, students undertake basic and general studies courses. They can specialize in either light current or heavy current options in their final years of study.  Dedan Kimathi University is a public, coeducational technological university located in Nyeri County. The Bsc in Electrical and Electronics Engineering program is structured to encompass up to date technologies such as nanotechnologies.  In the fourth year of study, students major in a specific area of speciality. The curriculum is designed to produce graduates with a solid grounding in theory and hands-on practical training. Successful graduates can proceed with their studies up to the master's level.  This is one of the best public universities in Tharaka Nithi County. The course is offered by the Faculty of Science, Engineering & Technology. The tuition fee is Kshs. 90,000 per semester. Applications from part-time and work-based students are also accepted.  Read also List of best C- courses in KMTC that you can enrol right now The field of electrical and electronics engineering offers some of the best employment opportunities to graduates. Successful graduates have access to a wide range of electrical and electronics jobs. The salary you earn as an electrical and electronics engineer varies depending on the level of education.  For instance, degree holders earn more salary per month compared to diploma holders. Electrical technicians at the entry-level position pocket between Kshs. 18,215 and Kshs. 68,606 per month. Degree holders earn from Kshs. 32,594 to Kshs. 104,960 or higher.   If you meet the above minimum entry requirements for admission, these craft, diploma, or degree electrical and electronics engineering courses are worth pursuing. You can advance your career with a master's or doctoral engineering degree to increase your chances of securing the best employment opportunities. Tuko.co.ke published an article about Marine engineering course requirements and universities offering in Kenya. Marine Engineering is a study dealing with the design, development, production, and maintenance of sea vessels. The course is one of the several engineering branches like civil and mechanical.  Read also 15 marketable courses that do not require Maths in Kenya The program has gained popularity over the past few years, with several available opportunities in the private and public sectors. Several Marine Engineering courses are available at the certificate, diploma, and degree levels in Kenya. Some of the institutions offering this course include JKUAT and Technical University of Mombasa. Read the post to learn more about this course.   Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Teresia Mwangi                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Teresia Mwangi is a writer and reporter with 10 years of experience. She studied Mass Communication at the University of Nairobi (2012). Teresia enjoys writing about trending topics, entertainment, travelling, politics, sports and technology. She joined Tuko in 2018. Teresia has also been a writer at Writersdomain.net. In 2023, Teresia finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. Teresia was named the "The Writer of the Year" in 2023. In 2024, she expanded her writing skills by enrolling for the Google Initiative course. You can reach her via smithgwen434@gmail.com
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you