
			Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, had been a front-runner to succeed Jens Stoltenberg, but failed to secure US support
		 Joe Biden made Ursula von der Leyen his pick for Nato secretary general after Britain announced plans to train Ukrainian pilots on F-16s without his approval. Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, had been a front-runner to succeed Jens Stoltenberg, the transatlantic alliance’s current chief. But Mr Wallace failed to secure the backing of the White House amid tensions over Britain’s ambitious military support for Ukraine, The Telegraph understands. Senior Conservative MPs have urged Rishi Sunak, the Prime Minister, to back an alternative candidate amid fears over Mrs von der Leyen’s record as Germany’s defence minister. During a recent visit to the White House, Mr Sunak was said to have “lobbied hard” for Mr Wallace to become Nato’s next top official.  Mr Biden later told a news conference that the UK had a “very qualified individual” for the job, but stopped short of offering his support. Mr Wallace led the way in the campaigns to arm Kyiv with modern battle tanks and long-range cruise missiles. However, Washington was dismayed when Britain announced plans to train Ukrainian pilots, and form an international effort to arm them with US-made F-16 jets, without its backing. The source said the move “ended any remaining hope” the Defence Secretary had of winning over Mr Biden.  On Tuesday, Mr Sunak said Mr Wallace, who has since ruled himself out of the running to become the next Nato chief, “had been an outstanding candidate for the role”. Robert Courts, a member of the Commons defence committee, said the UK “should back another candidate” and warned that Mrs Von der Leyen would be a “politically divisive” choice at a time when Nato needs to maintain unity. David Jones, a former Cabinet minister, urged the Prime Minister to block the move, saying: “He should certainly not be too anxious to support. The worry is that the EU is pursuing permanent structured cooperation, which is detracting from the integrity of Nato. Von der Leyen has been a keen proponent of it.” Mrs von der Leyen is being lined up to take over following next year’s European elections, having privately admitted that she will not be available for Nato duties until then. Mr Stoltenberg’s mandate was extended until October 2024, which coincides with the German EU chief’s availability. Mr Sunak vowed to build an “international coalition” to help procure F-16 aircraft for Ukraine after a meeting with Mark Rutte, his Dutch counterpart, in May. Downing Street announced that London and the Hague “would work to build an international coalition to provide Ukraine with combat air capabilities, supporting with everything from training to procuring F-16 jets”. A number of European nations had already signed up to the scheme but were hesitant to make it public before securing the full support of Washington. Mr Wallace had previously forced Mr Biden’s hand by announcing donations of tanks and long-range missiles to Ukraine. After a pressure campaign, the US president, who controls the export licences for F-16s, eventually relented and agreed to allow European allies to train Ukrainian pilots on the jets and their weapon systems. Mr Biden is pushing for Mrs von der Leyen, the European Commission’s president, to take over from Mr Stoltenberg. The president’s wife Jill reportedly leaned on him to support the appointment of the alliance’s first female secretary general. Mark Francois, a former armed forces minister, said her appointment would play into the hands of Vladimir Putin, while Marcus Fysh, the Tory MP for Yeovil said Mrs von der Leyen was the “wrong choice” for Nato and her appointment should be “resisted”. Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg, a former business secretary, said Washington’s backing for the EU official over Mr Wallace demonstrated the “decayed state of the ‘special relationship’”.