I'm a Celebrity star Dean Gaffney has revealed how the show 'saved his life' after a health scare. Speaking to The Mirror, Gaffney, who appeared on this year's I'm a Celebrity... South Africa, said that he was rushed to hospital following medical checks for a previous series of the reality show. According to the former EastEnders star, he was on standby to appear in I'm a Celebrity's 2020 series, which took place at the Gwrych Castle, Abergele in North Wales, when a routine health check revealed that he was losing blood. Related: I'm a Celebrity's Paul Burrell reveals co-star has quit cast's WhatsApp group Gaffney was taken for further tests which confirmed he had polyps in his large intestine, and was operated on immediately. "There is no doubt I'm a Celeb and its medical team saved my life," Gaffney said. "I might not be here today if it wasn't for them finding what they did. Within hours I was in a hospital gown and under general ­anaesthetic and they took it out." Following the operation, Gaffney said that the doctor issued him a warning, saying: "Had you not come to us today, in three years that could have turned to bowel cancer. You've been very lucky." Hoping to follow in the footsteps of the late Bowelbabe fundraiser Dame Deborah James, Gaffney is now encouraging fans to get checked and to take notice of their stools. Related: I'm a Celebrity's Helen Flanagan says show was a "distraction" from fiancé split "Dame Deborah was an inspiration to so many. I've so much respect for her fight and the awareness she raised for bowel cancer," he said. "If I can do a small fraction of that for men, it'd make me very happy. "I'm so grateful to the people on the show for bringing it to my attention. I check my stools all the time now. I'd urge others to do it, too." If you would like more information or support about living with cancer or treatment, please click here for guidance from MacMillan Cancer Support, or click here to learn more from Stand Up to Cancer. You Might Also Like Animal Crossing New Horizons is finally announced on Nintendo Switch How to watch Amazon Prime on your TV, smartphone and tablet – and enjoy Good Omens online Nintendo to release two new Switch consoles this year New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.