A mouth-watering encounter that could be the final 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The Cricket World Cup continues with an unmissable match-up - India vs Australia. So good are these sides that they could well meet again in the final.  The Aussies have won the toss and chose to bat first. The India fans will be roaring the home team on as they start their campaign at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. India are chasing 200 to win. David Warner and Steve Smith put on a solid 50 partnership, but both fell short of a personal half century. They were dismissed on 41 and 46 respectively, with Ravindra Jadeja claiming the prized scalp of Smith with a beauty. He was the star of the India bowlers, picking up a total of 3 for 28. The match is airing for FREE in Australia on the 9Now streaming service. But don't worry if you're on holiday while it's on — because you can watch IND vs AUS live streams on 9Now from anywhere with a VPN. Free stream: 9Now (AUS)
US: Willow Sports (via Sling TV)
UK: Sky Sports
AU: Kayo Sports | Foxtel Sports

How to use a VPN to watch any stream We had a sneak preview of this fixture recently, as India and Australia met for a pre-tournament ODI series. No surprise, it was hotly contested with the hosts coming out on top in two matches and the tourists winning the final one. The Aussies have also beaten Pakistan since arriving on Indian shores, so will not be short of confidence. India won the ODI Cricket World Cup last time they hosted it back in 2011. Led by their magnificent skipper Rohit Sharma, they are many people’s favourites to lift this time around. They did though have to make one late change to their squad, with Ravi Ashwin replacing the injured Axar Patel. Furthermore, Shubman Gill has not recovered from illness in time to play today. Australia also had to make a late change. Ashton Agar had a calf injury and so the dangerous batter Marnus Labuschagne, who featured in this summer’s dramatic Ashes series, has made the trip instead. Captained by Pat Cummins, the Australia squad also features exciting all-rounder Cameron Green and the experienced David Warner, who is playing in his last-ever World Cup. Line ups: India: Rohit Sharma (c), Ishan Kishan, Virat Kohli, Shreyas Iyer, KL Rahul (wk), Hardik Pandya, Ravindra Jadeja, Ravichandran Ashwin, Kuldeep Yadav, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj  Australia: David Warner, Mitch Marsh, Steve Smith, Marnus Labuschagne, Glenn Maxwell, Alex Carey (wk), Cameron Green, Pat Cummins (c), Mitchell Starc, Adam Zampa, Josh Hazlewood This is an absolutely mouthwatering encounter as some of the best bowlers in the world try to stop some of the best batsman from making enormous shots. Here’s how to get an India vs Australia live stream and watch the ICC Cricket World Cup 2023 online from anywhere in the world. While Fox has the rights to air the entire Cricket World Cup in 2023, free-to-air Channel 9 will be broadcasting 18 matches from the tournament, including all Australia games, the semis and the final. All Channel 9 games are also free to watch on the 9Now streaming service. If you're an Aussie trying to access 9Now while outside Australia, you might want to try a VPN to allow you to watch from abroad. As for the rest of the ICC World Cup, you can get Fox on both Kayo Sports (from $25 per month) or on Foxtel. You can find all of the Foxtel plans here. If you're a cricket fan in the US, you probably know what we're about to say here: to watch the India vs Australia game and the rest of the Cricket World Cup, you'll need to use Willow TV. Willow TV, and Willow Xtra, are two cable channels that are often considered the home of cricket in the US. If you don't have a cable plan that includes the channels, though, there's still a way to watch. That's because the live TV streaming service Sling TV, which lets you stream cable channels over the internet. Best of all, there's no need to subscribe to a full Sling package to watch the cricket. In the Desi TV offers page, you'll find the Willow TV-only deal for $10 per month only. No long contract. Cancel at any time. The UK broadcaster for the Cricket World Cup is Sky, so to watch an India vs Australia live stream you'll need to subscribe to Sky Sports. The game starts at 9.30am and will be shown on both Sky Sports Main Event and Sky Sports Cricket.  Sky Sports costs £56 per month — that's £29 for the base Sky Entertainment & Netflix plan and another £27 for the Sky Sports add-on. This is on a 31-day rolling contract too, and you can save £5 in total per month if you opt for an 18-month contract instead. You can watch India vs Australia on any of the streaming services above by using a VPN – no matter where you are in the world! Normally a streaming service will know where you are trying to tune in from and block you if you're not in the right country but a Virtual Private Network (VPN) is an app that hides your location. That means you can access your usual sports and entertainment services even while you're traveling abroad. Our favorite VPN is ExpressVPN, which is the No. 1-rated VPN in the world right now according to our sister site, TechRadar. How to use a VPN to watch any stream ExpressVPN is one of the simplest and most affordable ways to watch what you want from anywhere you want to watch it. It's straightforward and easy to use, has great security, is available on loads of streaming devices and, best of all, it comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can try it out 100% risk-free. India vs Australia begins at 1.30am PT / 4.30am ET / 9.30am BST / 7.30pm AEDT on Saturday 7th October 2023. The latest updates, reviews and unmissable series to watch and more! Charlotte Henry is a tech and media journalist. In her newsletter, The Addition, she focuses on the ever-changing streaming ecosystem as the likes of Netflix, Apple TV+, Prime Video, Max and Disney+ fight for supremacy. Charlotte is also a sports fan. She watches everything from Premier League football to Major League Baseball. Charlotte’s first book “Not Buying It: The Facts Behind Fake News” was published in 2019. Away from work, she can often be found at heavy metal concerts, festivals and the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. How to watch college football on Peacock How to watch the US Open Tennis Grand Slam online or on TV for free Netflix's first in-house film is available — and is one of its best originals What to Watch is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 