     Riyadh: Qatar participated in the 27th Meeting of the GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications, held in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the presence of ministers of communications and information technology in the GCC countries.
The Minister of Communications and Information Technology HE  Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai headed Qatar's delegation to the meeting, along with a group of senior officials of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and the Communications Regulatory Authority.
During the meeting, it was agreed to form a working group headed by Qatar to consider the measures to be taken regarding the establishment of the unlicensed wireless networks that are used for mining cryptocurrencies.
The meeting also dealt with following-up the implementation of the 26th Meeting of GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications. In addition, the meeting discussed the GCC Under-Secretaries of Post and Telecommunications regarding the outcomes of the 29th Meeting of the GCC Committee for Under-Secretaries of Post and Telecommunications, held on February 2, 2023.
Commenting on Qatar's participation in the Meeting of the GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications, the Minister of Communications and Information Technology HE Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai stressed the importance of the topics on the meeting's agenda and the necessity of proceeding with their implementation, stressing the importance of enhancing the joint action among the GCC countries.
Qatar's participation in the GCC meetings on communications, information technology, and post comes within the framework of acquainting best practices; exchanging views, experiences, and recommendations to unify the efforts in Arab and international forums; and discussing ways to enhance cooperation among GCC countries in a way that contributes to the development of these vital sectors. 
 
 Riyadh: Qatar participated in the 27th Meeting of the GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications, held in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the presence of ministers of communications and information technology in the GCC countries. The Minister of Communications and Information Technology HE  Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai headed Qatar's delegation to the meeting, along with a group of senior officials of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and the Communications Regulatory Authority. During the meeting, it was agreed to form a working group headed by Qatar to consider the measures to be taken regarding the establishment of the unlicensed wireless networks that are used for mining cryptocurrencies. The meeting also dealt with following-up the implementation of the 26th Meeting of GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications. In addition, the meeting discussed the GCC Under-Secretaries of Post and Telecommunications regarding the outcomes of the 29th Meeting of the GCC Committee for Under-Secretaries of Post and Telecommunications, held on February 2, 2023. Commenting on Qatar's participation in the Meeting of the GCC Ministerial Committee for Post and Telecommunications, the Minister of Communications and Information Technology HE Mohammed bin Ali Al Mannai stressed the importance of the topics on the meeting's agenda and the necessity of proceeding with their implementation, stressing the importance of enhancing the joint action among the GCC countries. Qatar's participation in the GCC meetings on communications, information technology, and post comes within the framework of acquainting best practices; exchanging views, experiences, and recommendations to unify the efforts in Arab and international forums; and discussing ways to enhance cooperation among GCC countries in a way that contributes to the development of these vital sectors. 
  
   



  Check all issues & supplements 



