Escape to the Chateau couple Dick and Angel Strawbridge appear to be winding down their castle business as they apply for a 'voluntary strike off' amid a Channel 4 fall out Escape to the Chateau 's Dick and Angel Strawbridge are appearing to wind down their castle company amid a fall out from Channel 4.  The couple became much-loved stars through their show as they renovated a French chateau to offer a £38,000 wedding service.  However, last month Channel 4 told the Mirror they had decided to part ways with Dick and Angel "following a review" after years of working together.  It came amid claims they 'bullied' producers whilst filming, but Dick and Angel insisted there are 'two sides to every story'. Now it appears the TV couple have made the decision to wind down their company, after applying for a 'voluntary strike off' from the register at Companies House. The application for Chateau-de-la-Motte Husson Limited was signed on May 9 by Dick and Angel, real name Angela. The first notice was given on May 23, with the company set to be dissolved within two months. All events at the chateau – such as 'garden days' and 'tours under the stars' are marked as unavailable. In May, their website stated : "We are currently on a two-year weddings ‘catch-up’, we will reopen enquiries as soon as we can!"  The couple's other services, including a Chateau Under the Stars experience, which costs £350 per night and a £75 Working Garden Day were also 'currently unavailable'.  The reality star couple have been married since 2015 and share two children - while 63-year-old Dick has two other kids from a previous marriage. Fans loved their fairytale story as the couple renovated a 19th-century, 45-bedroom Château de la Motte-Husson in Martigné-sur-Mayenne, France. However, it seems the dream turned into a bit of nightmare with Two Rivers Media confirming to the Mirror they also cut ties and will no longer be working with the couple. A leaked audio clip saw Angel reportedly launch a 'foul mouthed rant' at a producer. At one point in the clip, Angel says her husband Dick - with whom she shares two children Arthur and Dorothy - talked to people like "s**t," with the producer then responding to say to her: "And I don’t like that either."  Her frustration appeared to grow as she fumed at the unknown person for posting something on social media that had a likeness to her husband Dick Strawbridge.  In response to the claims they wrote a lengthy statement on Instagram, which said: "Thank you for inviting us into your living rooms. You have watched our children grow up and shared our adventures.  "It was a Strawbridge Family decision early last year to conclude ‘Escape to the Chateau’, but we have loved every moment and, despite the many challenges, we refused to give up on our dream, and in doing so have filled the chateau with love and laughter, and, most importantly, have created the most wonderful home for our family. "We know there are lots of stories in the press right now. It’s not worth us even trying to comment or give context, because anything can be made into a good headline. We understand. "There are two sides to every story and from the incredible support we have received, most of you know that." Get the biggest TV headlines, recaps and insider knowledge straight to your inbox