— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed's editors. Purchases made through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. Spring is right around the corner, which means it's time to bring out your warm-weather clothes and update your wardrobe with new, trendy pieces for the season. When the weather begins to heat up, there's truly no better feeling than slipping into a comfortable pair of sandals. The best sandals can take you from brunch with friends to running errands with your kids, offering both style and comfort. So, what are we wearing? Subscribe to Reviewed’s weekly Style Check newsletter to get the answers from stylish people. With so many options, it can be overwhelming to choose the best pair. From strappy gladiator sandals to casual slides, the possibilities are endless. We’ve included a variety of styles on this list, from casual to dressy, flat to heeled and everything in between to help you find your new favorite pair of shoes for the season. These Steve Madden Donddi Sandals will elevate any spring outfit to the next level, thanks to their sleek and minimalist design. The adjustable ankle strap provides a secure fit while the lightly padded footbed will give your feet all-day comfort, even on your most active days. Additionally, the classic open-toe design will keep you cool on those especially warm spring days. “They match with almost everything and are extremely comfortable and durable,” says one 5-star reviewer. Pair them with a gorgeous sun dress or shorts and a classic tee for a casual vibe. These Steve Madden sandals are available in women’s sizes 5 to 11 and 12 colors.  Just because they’re wedges doesn’t mean these Clarks Annadel Eirwyn Sandals aren’t incredibly comfortable. The adjustable ankle strap and cushioned OrthoLite footbed provide the ultimate comfort while still being a stylish choice to pair with all of your spring outfits. The cork-wrapped wedge heel not only adds some serious height, but offers an elegant, classic texture.You can effortlessly dress these sandals up or down depending on your outfit—from a semi-formal A-line dress to flared jeans and a blouse. These Clarks sandals are available in women’s whole, wide and half sizes 5 to 12 and in two colors. Dr. Martens may be famous for their combat boots, but their Nartilla Sandals are an excellent option for the quickly-approaching warm temperatures where boots are just too much. These sandals have a chunky sole and edgy hardware that will turn heads wherever you go. Made from high-quality leather, these sandals are built to last. And with the iconic signature Dr. Martens air-cushioned sole, you can walk assured knowing that every step you take will be as comfortable as it is stylish. These Dr. Martens sandals are available in women’s sizes 5 to 11 and in four colors.  ►Amazon deals: Shop today's best Amazon deals on Apple, iRobot, Leesa and Keurig If you're looking for a versatile and stylish splurge-worthy sandal that can keep up with your busy spring schedule, look no further than the Sorel Kinetic Sandals. These sandals feature a sleek and sporty design that will complement any casual outfit, from shorts to your favorite pair of leggings. Reviewers love how comfortable they are. “I wore these at an outdoor event I organized for 5 hours while 8 months pregnant and my feet didn't hurt. These are seriously great sandals,” says one 5-star reviewer. These sandals are versatile, comfortable and stylish, making them a must-have for any shoe collection. They’re available in women’s whole and half sizes 5 to 11 and seven colors. As the name suggests, these Steve Madden Travel Flat Sandals are so pretty you’ll want to journey around the world just to show them off. The studded design provides a unique and edgy look, making them great for dressing up your outfit. Because of their lightweight design, they’re great sandals to pack when traveling because of how effortlessly they’ll fit into your carry-on. Plus, the neutral color options will match a variety of outfits, making them a versatile addition to any wardrobe. These Steve Madden sandals are available in women’s whole and half sizes 5 to 11 and a whopping 25 colors.  These Blowfish Malibu Balla Wedge Sandals are the ideal combination of fashion and function. With a chic wedge heel and faux-leather covering that’ll protect your feet from the sun, they'll elevate any outfit to the next level. The cushioned footbed feels like you’re walking on clouds. So don’t be surprised when your feet thank you for the all-day comfort. Some reviewers warn that if you have wide feet, you should order at least a half-size up to ensure a comfortable fit. These Blowfish wedge sandals are available in women’s whole and half sizes 6 to 10 and in seven colors.  If you’re looking for a pair of slides that look like they cost ten times more than they actually did, you need these Steve Madden Dual Flat Sandals. The cushioned footbed provides optimal comfort, and the synthetic materials ensure durability, making these sandals a great choice for everyday wear. Because they’re so versatile, you can pair them with just about any spring and summer outfit and look completely put together. If you have wider feet, it’s recommended to go up a size because the straps are not adjustable. The Dual Flat Sandals from Steve Madden are available in women’s whole and half sizes 5 to 11 and in 14 colors.  You may not have ever considered hiking in sandals, but these Megnya Hiking Sandals may change your mind. The nylon cord not only adds a sporty touch to the shoes, but it also provides support and durability during rigorous activity. The middle straps are adjustable so you can ensure a comfortable fit, reducing your worry about your feet slipping out while walking around. Wear these sandals to the beach, the park, an easy hike or just around town. The Megnya Hiking Sandals are available in women’s sizes 6 to 11 and in 19 colors.  The cutout design of these Toms Suede Majcut Sandals is ideal for those who want to show off a little skin this spring without sacrificing comfort. Despite having some height, the cushioned footbed provides all-day comfort and the durable rubber outsole ensures that these sandals will last you through many warm-weather adventures. But let's be real, the best part of these sandals is that they're from Toms, which means you're also doing good while looking good. Toms is known for their commitment to giving back, and with each purchase, they donate a pair of shoes to someone in need. So, not only will your feet look and feel great, but you'll also be doing your part to help others. These Toms Suede Majcut Sandals are available in women’s whole and half sizes 5 to 12 and in 11 colors.  These Soles & Souls Flat T-Strap Thong Sandals are a nostalgic nod to the classic thong sandals worn in the early ‘00s, but with an upgraded design. “I love, love - did I say love? These sandals,” says one 5-star reviewer. Like Toms, Soles & Souls is committed to giving back—with each purchase, they donate a pair of shoes to someone in need. So, not only will you be adding a fabulous pair of sandals to your shoe collection, but you'll also be doing your part to make a difference in the world. These Soles & Souls Flat T-Strap Thong Sandals are available in women’s whole and half sizes 5 to 11 and in four colors.  If you’re looking for a trendy and seriously comfortable shoe option to wear this spring, consider the J. Adams Corby Platform Sandals. The platform design provides extra height, while the thick T-strap exudes a stylish edginess you won’t get from most sandals. These sandals can easily be dressed up or down, making them fantastic for a variety of occasions, like brunch with friends or shopping around town. “They are extremely comfortable for all day or night wear immediately out of the box,” boasts one 5-star reviewer. “I can dance in them for hours!” These sandals are available in a range of neutral colors, making it easy to find the best pair to suit your outfit. Whether you prefer classic black or a simple white style, these sandals are a great choice for adding some springtime flair to any outfit. These J. Adams Corby Platform Sandals are available in women’s whole and half sizes 5.5 to 11 and in four colors.  With over 33,000 5-star ratings, it’s no surprise these Birkenstock Arizona Soft Footbed Sandals are a customer favorite on Amazon. While they may not be the most stylish pair on this list, these shoes have proven time and time again that their superior comfort trumps style any day of the week. The soft footbed contours to your feet the more you wear it, essentially creating a custom fit for your feet.  One 5-star reviewer says, “I cannot live with out [sic] these. They make my feet feel better when they hurt!” You’ll find yourself wearing these everywhere you go just because of how comfortable they are. These Birkenstocks are available in women’s whole and half sizes 4 to 19.5 and over 100 colors.  The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.