e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Perlov is regional director of the Anti-Defamation League. She lives in San Diego. Every year, Jews around the world celebrate Passover (“Pesach” in Hebrew) by gathering around the Seder table and recounting the Exodus of the ancient Israelites from Egypt. This annual collective remembrance of the Jewish people’s liberation from oppression and bondage to freedom and redemption can resonate with each of us — Jewish or not. This year, Passover, Easter and Ramadan coalesce, meaning many outside the Jewish community will also be gathering with friends and family at this time.In my family, I have always enjoyed the opportunity to engage with distant relatives, neighbors and friends — both Jewish and not Jewish — at the Seder table. At the Passover Seder, we traditionally say, “Let all who are hungry, come and eat.” This invitation to open our doors provides me the chance to connect with the people in my life and in my community and reflect on Passover as a time for inclusivity. Everyone is welcome and everyone is necessary to build peace and wholeness in our community.After all, knowing the story of your neighbor is the only way to remove fear of the other and embrace our common humanity. In Exodus, we see that Pharaoh feared the other — in this case, the Israelites — and his hatred of the Israelites and his enslavement of them seems to have been driven by that fear of the unknown or that which is different.Unfortunately, this story of Pharaoh’s hatred towards the Israelites resonates all too well with today’s Jews, considering the current rise of antisemitism and bigotry in the United States. In March, the Anti-Defamation League released a survey called “Antisemitic Attitudes in America: Conspiracy Theories, Holocaust Education and Other Predictors of Antisemitic Belief.”The analysis explored the intersections between antisemitism, ignorance and conspiratorial thinking, which are tightly interwoven. The report found that people who knew less about Jews, Judaism and Jewish history, including minimizing the number of Jews who died in the Holocaust and overestimating the proportional size of the American Jewish community, believed in more antisemitic tropes.Recently, the Anti-Defamation League San Diego partnered with the Lawrence Family Jewish Community Center Jacobs Family Campus to host a Passover Seder celebration, called “Together Towards Freedom.”Participatory in nature, the event was designed for connection and all the guests — a majority of whom were not Jewish and some of whom were experiencing a Passover Seder for the first time — were seen, heard and included.

Modern additions to the Seder plates were made to honor the diversity of our Jewish community, like an orange added to acknowledge LGBTQ+ people in the Jewish community or a potato for Ethiopian Jews who, when brought to Israel during Operation Solomon in 1991, were so famished that they could not eat anything but potatoes or rice. We also included a discussion about modern plagues to remind us of the work we need to do together to repair our world.The Hebrew word for peace — shalom — comes from shalem, which means wholeness, completion and harmony. We have peace and harmony in this world when we embrace our diversity and foster safety, respect, belonging, access and representation for all.The truth is, the Passover story is not just the story of the Jewish people’s ancestors’ journey from oppression to liberation and self-determination in our ancestral homeland. The Jewish people are commanded to see this journey in every generation and community under oppression. This is even more relevant today, as the Anti-Defamation League just reported a historic high for antisemitic incidents in the United States in 2022.At the same time, the universal message to liberate all people from oppression is part of the ancient tradition. Fighting hatred of Jews is integral to ending all bigotry and discrimination based on race, religion, ethnicity/culture, gender and gender identity, and sexual orientation — because if one of us is not safe, none of us are. The message of Passover is to imagine a world without hate by bringing wholeness and harmony to our society — what the Jewish people call shalom/peace.The Passover Seder ends with the wish “Next Year in Jerusalem.” In Hebrew, Jerusalem means “the city of peace.” For Jews, Jerusalem is not only a physical destination — the “earthly Jerusalem,” but also an ideal — “the heavenly Jerusalem.” By yearning for Jerusalem, we wish for peace for ourselves and the world. And to my neighbors celebrating Easter and observing Ramadan, I wish you a happy Easter, Ramadan mubarak, and peace as well. Every year, Jews around the world celebrate Passover (“Pesach” in Hebrew) by gathering around the Seder table and recounting the Exodus of the ancient Israelites from Egypt. This annual collective remembrance of the Jewish people’s liberation from oppression and bondage to freedom and redemption can resonate with each of us — Jewish or not. This year, Passover, Easter and Ramadan coalesce, meaning many outside the Jewish community will also be gathering with friends and family at this time. In my family, I have always enjoyed the opportunity to engage with distant relatives, neighbors and friends — both Jewish and not Jewish — at the Seder table. At the Passover Seder, we traditionally say, “Let all who are hungry, come and eat.” This invitation to open our doors provides me the chance to connect with the people in my life and in my community and reflect on Passover as a time for inclusivity. Everyone is welcome and everyone is necessary to build peace and wholeness in our community. After all, knowing the story of your neighbor is the only way to remove fear of the other and embrace our common humanity. In Exodus, we see that Pharaoh feared the other — in this case, the Israelites — and his hatred of the Israelites and his enslavement of them seems to have been driven by that fear of the unknown or that which is different. Unfortunately, this story of Pharaoh’s hatred towards the Israelites resonates all too well with today’s Jews, considering the current rise of antisemitism and bigotry in the United States. In March, the Anti-Defamation League released a survey called “Antisemitic Attitudes in America: Conspiracy Theories, Holocaust Education and Other Predictors of Antisemitic Belief.” The analysis explored the intersections between antisemitism, ignorance and conspiratorial thinking, which are tightly interwoven. The report found that people who knew less about Jews, Judaism and Jewish history, including minimizing the number of Jews who died in the Holocaust and overestimating the proportional size of the American Jewish community, believed in more antisemitic tropes. Recently, the Anti-Defamation League San Diego partnered with the Lawrence Family Jewish Community Center Jacobs Family Campus to host a Passover Seder celebration, called “Together Towards Freedom.” Participatory in nature, the event was designed for connection and all the guests — a majority of whom were not Jewish and some of whom were experiencing a Passover Seder for the first time — were seen, heard and included. Modern additions to the Seder plates were made to honor the diversity of our Jewish community, like an orange added to acknowledge LGBTQ+ people in the Jewish community or a potato for Ethiopian Jews who, when brought to Israel during Operation Solomon in 1991, were so famished that they could not eat anything but potatoes or rice. We also included a discussion about modern plagues to remind us of the work we need to do together to repair our world. The Hebrew word for peace — shalom — comes from shalem, which means wholeness, completion and harmony. We have peace and harmony in this world when we embrace our diversity and foster safety, respect, belonging, access and representation for all. The truth is, the Passover story is not just the story of the Jewish people’s ancestors’ journey from oppression to liberation and self-determination in our ancestral homeland. The Jewish people are commanded to see this journey in every generation and community under oppression. This is even more relevant today, as the Anti-Defamation League just reported a historic high for antisemitic incidents in the United States in 2022. At the same time, the universal message to liberate all people from oppression is part of the ancient tradition. Fighting hatred of Jews is integral to ending all bigotry and discrimination based on race, religion, ethnicity/culture, gender and gender identity, and sexual orientation — because if one of us is not safe, none of us are. The message of Passover is to imagine a world without hate by bringing wholeness and harmony to our society — what the Jewish people call shalom/peace. The Passover Seder ends with the wish “Next Year in Jerusalem.” In Hebrew, Jerusalem means “the city of peace.” For Jews, Jerusalem is not only a physical destination — the “earthly Jerusalem,” but also an ideal — “the heavenly Jerusalem.” By yearning for Jerusalem, we wish for peace for ourselves and the world. And to my neighbors celebrating Easter and observing Ramadan, I wish you a happy Easter, Ramadan mubarak, and peace as well. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group