The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Friends, family and community members are remembering Kane Bowen, who died in Thursday's shooting at Burke Street Pub.  They’re holding a vigil for him Friday night at Celestial Wellness, where he worked in downtown Winston-Salem.  Friends of Kane say that he was a great musician, a hard worker and had an infectious personality. They simply said there was nobody else like him.  “This community is absolutely shook right now. I mean everybody, all the women loved Kane, all the guys called him brother," Tylere White, Kane's friend and co-worker, said. Kane Bowen was hanging out with friends at Burke Street Pub early Thursday morning when a man fired shots into the pub from the street. Kane was killed.  “He was that guy that you just never imagined this happen to," White said.  Friends said that Kane had a huge impact on the community.   White said, "every room he walked in, he inspired people. Every instrument he picked up, he absolutely shredded on. Everything he touched was gold." “Kane was a brother to me, he’s a brother to a lot of people. We grew up together, we traveled the country together. He’s an incredible musician, friend; he’s witty and quirky. He was just extremely special," Kylor Rife, Kane's friend, said.  Kane worked at Celestial Wellness as a lead production manager. White said that this business meant a lot to him, so they're holding the vigil at Celestial Wellness at 5:30 p.m. “Kane dedicated the last couple years of his life to Celestial, and this project meant a lot to him. We wanna bring everyone together, just to remind everybody of the work he was doing and how important it was to him," White said.  William Drake, 74, is charged with murder and assault with a deadly weapon. Police say he did not know Kane Bowen or Makenzie Dalton, who was grazed by a bullet. Police said Drake did have an ongoing dispute with someone else at the pub. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.