— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. Start saving big this summer with the help of the best Walmart deals. The big box behemoth has plenty of deep discounts across all categories. With tons of 4th of July deals on outdoor essentials, smart TVs, travel must-haves, kitchen tools and so much more, it's a great time to bargain hunt at Walmart. School is out and summer is officially here, and if you need help keeping your kids entertained this summer you can score this KidKraft outdoor playset from Walmart. Typically $399, you can get this playset, which includes swings, a slide, a chalk wall and more, for just $279 today at Walmart—saving you $120 in the process. ➤Prime Day 2023:Amazon is serving up Reviewed-approved kitchen deals this summer ahead of Prime Day 2023 ➤Can't miss deal:Save 49% on our favorite garden hose ahead of Amazon Prime Day Here's the deal: Subscribe to our Perks and Rec newsletter for daily savings on all the things you want and need. The 4th of July will be celebrated across the U.S. on Tuesday, July 4. The federal holiday is observed each year in recognition of the country's independence. Independence Day celebrations date back to the 18th century when the Declaration of Independence was adopted in 1776. Many of the earliest 4th of July sales started in mid-June and we expect to see even more retailers drop 4th of July deals in the days and weeks ahead. Like in years past, you can expect to see some of the steepest markdowns from Walmart and others on 4th of July proper, which is Tuesday, July 4. Mattresses, bedding, TVs and countertop appliances typically see some of the biggest 4th of July discounts. Independence Day has become one of the hottest shopping holidays of the summer, with plenty of Black Friday-level markdowns at massive retailers like Walmart as well as Amazon, Best Buy, Lowe's and so much more. Right now you can also score huge price cuts on fashion and beauty essentials from the likes of lululemon and American Eagle. Whatever it is you're shopping for, you're sure to find impressive markdowns across all categories in honor of 4th of July. Whether you want to give virtual reality a try with Meta Quest or are eager to sport some cozy Crocs this summer, Walmart has the deals for you ahead of 4th of July 2023. We especially like the superstore's 50% markdown on Grand Theft Auto V for PlayStation 5 that'll let you game on for $20.02 less than usual. Walmart+ is a great subscription service for folks who get their groceries at Walmart. It offers members fuel discounts at participating Murphy USA and Murphy Express gas stations and saves you money on delivery fees with unlimited free delivery. That means, if you're hitting the road this year, signing up for Walmart+ could be a great cost-cutting solution.  Being a Walmart+ member gets you exclusive access to the retailer's sale events, some of which are for subscribers only. You can even get early access to select deals, free unlimited delivery for orders and cheaper members-only gas prices. A Walmart+ membership also includes a Paramount+ Essential Plan, offering members the ability to stream premium entertainment like Star Trek: Strange New Worlds, Top Gun: Maverick and even live sports for a full year. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.