For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Workers in different sectors are continuing to take industrial action, crippling services across the country. National Highways began industrial action in London and the South East on Thursday, a day after thousands of ambulance workers walked out in England and Wales. Staff on London’s Elizabeth line will now also strike on January 12 and nurses in England will stage further action on January 18 and 19 in an escalation of the pay dispute with the UK Government unless negotiations are opened. Trade union Unison also announced that ambulance workers will stage two fresh strikes in the dispute over pay and staffing, with five services in England walking out on January 11 and 23. But elsewhere, Go North East bus walkouts were called off as around 150 engineers accepted pay rises of up to 13.1%. Services ranging from postal deliveries to health are still set to be hit by walkouts from now into January. Here are some of the strikes planned: – December 24 RMT railway workers will stage another strike from 6pm. London bus workers at Abellio will go on strike. Royal Mail workers will continue a national strike. The DVSA strike continues in the North West, Yorkshire and Humber, and North Wales. Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. The National Highway workers’ strike continues in London and the South East. – December 25 The RMT rail strike will continue, although no train services run on Christmas Day. Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents. PCS members with Border Force continue their strike. The National Highway workers’ strike continues in London and the South East. – December 26 The RMT rail strike will continue, meaning limited Boxing Day services are likely to be cancelled. TSSA members at operator CrossCountry are also set to strike. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents until 9am. – December 27 The RMT rail strike continues until 6am. The TSSA strike at CrossCountry continues. London bus workers at Abellio will go on strike. – December 28 The planned strike by ambulance workers in the GMB union has now been suspended. DVSA driving examiners’ strikes will start in the West Midlands, the Eastern region and the East Midlands. TSSA members working for Great Western Railway (GWR) and West Midlands Trains (WMT) will strike from 12pm. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. – December 29 The DVSA strike continues in the West Midlands, the Eastern region and the East Midlands. TSSA strikes at GWR and WMT will continue. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. – December 30 Road strikes by National Highways employees will begin in the West Midlands and the South West. The DVSA strike continues in the West Midlands, the Eastern region and the East Midlands. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. – December 31 London bus workers at Abellio to strike. Road strikes by National Highways employees will continue in the West Midlands and the South West. Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents. PCS members with Border Force will continue their strike. – January 1 National Highways workers to stage two-day action in all areas of the country. The DVSA strike continues in the West Midlands, the Eastern region and the East Midlands. Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents. – January 2 Unison staff at the Environment Agency will refuse to volunteer to attend incidents until 9am. – January 3 RMT members at Network Rail to launch fresh strikes. Rural Payments Agency (RPA) staff will resume their walkout. All PCS members at National Highways, working for the traffic officer service, will take action. – January 4 The DVSA driving examiners’ strike starts in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. Traffic officer service workers at National Highways will continue their walkout. The RMT rail workers’ strike continues. UK-wide National Highways strike continues. RPA staff will continue their walkout. London bus workers at Abellio to go on strike. – January 5 Train workers at 15 operators with the Aslef union to stage a 24-hour walkout. The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. RPA staff will continue their walkout. London bus workers at Abellio to go on strike. – January 6 RMT rail workers will stage another 48-hour strike. National Highways workers to stage a two-day action in the East Midlands and eastern England. The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. RPA staff to continue their walkout. – January 7 The RMT rail workers’ walkout continues. National Highways workers will continue their strike in the East Midlands and eastern England. The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. – January 8 The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. – January 9 The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. RPA staff to continue their walkout. – January 10 The Educational Institute of Scotland (EIS) union will stage a national strike in primary schools, special schools and early years sites. The DVSA strike continues in London, the South East, South Wales and the South West. RPA staff to continue their walkout. London bus workers at Abellio to go on strike. – January 11 Unison members working for five ambulance services in England will stage a fresh walkout. The GMB union, also representing ambulance staff, has now scheduled further strike action for this date. EIS, joined by the Scottish Secondary Teachers’ Association, will stage another national strike in secondary schools and secondary special schools. RPA staff will continue their walkout. – January 12 Workers on London’s Elizabeth line will go on strike. London bus workers at Abellio will also stage industrial action. RPA staff will continue their walkout. – January 13 RPA staff to continue their walkout. – January 16 EIS to stage a national strike for 16 consecutive days until February 2, which will see members in two local authorities strike each day. London bus workers at Abellio will go on strike. – January 18 Royal College of Nursing (RCN) members in England will strike. – January 19 London bus workers at Abellio will go on strike. RCN members in England will continue their strike. – January 23 Unison members working for five ambulance services in England will stage another walkout. – January 25 London bus workers at Abellio will go on strike. – January 26 London bus workers at Abellio will continue strike. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement