Watching The Holiday around the holidays has become an annual tradition for us. What can we say? It’s truly a classic, feel-good movie that’s ideal to watch around Christmas time. So, when rumors of a sequel started swirling around the internet, we need to know *all* the details. Earlier this week, actress Kate Winslet attended the premiere of Avatar: The Way of Water in the United Kingdom. While speaking with Entertainment Tonight, she addressed rumors of a sequel...andddd shared that it’s a no-go (womp, womp). “As far as I know, it’s not true,” she said. She later revealed that “no one’s ever consulted” her about a sequel. She continued, “I know—sadly it’s not true. It would be so fun to see Miles and Iris get back together. I kind of imagine, like, how cute would their children be? Tiny Jack Blacks running around everywhere.” Winslet went on to say that she finds it “so thrilling” that fans continue to love the movie after all these years. But in the end, she believes that The Holiday doesn’t need a sequel. “Sometimes you just have to kind of quit while you're ahead, walk away, let it have its place in the sun,” the actress said. The Holiday follows a Daily Telegraph columnist named Iris (Winslet) and a movie trailer producer named Amanda (Cameron Diaz). With freshly broken hearts, both women decided to swap houses for the holidays. Soon enough, they both meet unexpected love interests. The movie also stars Jack Black (Miles) and Jude Law (Graham). Welp, there goes our hope… Want all the latest entertainment news sent right to your inbox? Click here. 25 Best Christmas Movies Ranked But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" The celebrations of Team GB's incredible medal haul was aired on BBC One last night (Saturday, August 18), but viewers all thought the same thing when they saw Emma Willis and Vernon Kay Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage