Alessandra Aguirre on American Idol (ABC/Eric McCandless)ABC “American Idol” will welcome Berklee College of Music student Alessandra Aguirre on Sunday’s new episode. The Boston resident, who is originally from Lima, Peru, has been singing since she can remember, she told MassLive, but now finally feels like her dreams are falling into place. “This is what I love and what I want to do for the rest of my life,” Aguirre said. She’s been at it since she was 10 years old, landing the opportunity to try out for “Peru’s Got Talent.” Fast forward to her last year of high school, Aguirre struggled with what path she was going to go down —until she found Berklee College of Music in Boston. Aguirre found herself scrolling online when a Berklee ad popped up, announcing auditions in her home country. “I was like ‘OK, why not? I’ll just audition.’ And I got in.” She had the same outlook when Berklee sent her the offer to audition for “American Idol.” Aguirre didn’t think much of the audition, recalling not even telling her parents about it. But once she sang for producers, she was asked to sing again. From there, the show told her she’d fly out to Las Vegas to audition for judges Lionel Richie, Katy Perry and Luke Bryan. It was not long before she found herself standing just a few feet away from all three of them. “It was surreal. It was like a flashbulb memory. Like, they’re going to know my name,” she shared. Aguirre auditioned for the three stars, then had the second opportunity to audition with an original song in Spanish, which went over well with the judges. “They were like ‘that’s what we want to see more of,’” she said. “Being from Peru makes me unique, most of the contestants on the show are from America. Having a different music culture I think is what stands out to them.” Aguirre is hoping with her audition, she can inspire someone like her to conjure up the same confidence. It’s still a competition, but I want to make people see that there’s space for everyone everywhere. I hear people from the Latin community say ‘Oh, I’ll never be able to make it in the U.S.,’ but here I am. I am the proof you can do that. It doesn’t matter if you sing a language they don’t understand. I feel like if you feel it, you can transmit it.” The singer is on track to graduate from Berklee in May with a degree in Music Production and Music Business. She hopes to one day work in the industry, producing her own music and writing her own songs. “American Idol” viewers can watch Aguirre’s audition when it airs live on Sunday, where it will be revealed if she makes it through to the next round in Hollywood. Season 21 airs every Sunday at 8 p.m. Eastern on ABC. Those looking to stream the show can do so on FuboTV. The platform offers a free trial for new users. Hulu is also available for streaming with a subscription. Those who sign up will get their first month free. Plans for Hulu start as low as $6.99 a month and give you access to thousands of shows and movies. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices