Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     In a new interview, World of Warcraft game director Ion Hazzikostas clarified a few details about a recent controversy surrounding the Trading Post feature. The news from Hazzikostas sought to ease some concerns that players had with the Trading Post and revealed a few plans that could play out instead in future World of Warcraft updates.
                         Released alongside Patch 10.0.5 earlier this year, the Trading Post has proven to be a success with players after a bumpy launch in World of Warcraft. In the most recent Trading Post update, the amount of Trader's Tenders and rewards was expanded for July and August. Rewards such as Tyrael's Charger and the Grotto Netherwing Drake are among the most coveted for this wave, along with the return of some items such as the Filigreed Lion's Maw shield. But, the Trading Post has had some issues about its future crop up ahead of the next content update.
      RELATED: World of Warcraft Greatly Nerfs New Megadungeon
                     Hazzikostas said in an interview that there are no plans to make Trader's Tenders available on Blizzard's Cash Shop. Hazzikostas stated that recent datamined assets for the Trader's Tenders were never intended to be made public and that an error in development led to them being unencrypted and pushed to a recent build of World of Warcraft's public test realm (PTR). Hazzikostas added that a lot of internal assets similar to what was used for the Trader's Tenders are made long in advance, even if a majority of them never make it beyond the development state. But in this case, the assets in question slipped through the cracks.
                         Naturally, this error caused some grave concerns about the future of the Trading Post, with some World of Warcraft players fearing that it would subvert the purpose of the Trading Post and lead to even bigger problems for the game's economy. Hazzikostas said that he and the World of Warcraft development team heard players' feedback "loud and clear" about their displeasure of having any in-game currency available on the Cash Shop at all. However, Hazzikostas left the door open for Trader's Tenders to potentially be available in the future by way of promotions or expansion launches. Hazzikostas stated one example was when 500 Trader's Tenders were given to World of Warcraft players that had the Dragonflight expansion active on their accounts once the Trading Post went live in Patch 10.0.5.
                         Suffice it to say, players looking forward to World of Warcraft's upcoming Fractures in Time update can rest assured that the Trading Post will remain as is for the foreseeable future. Only time will tell what the future holds for the Trading Post.
      World of Warcraft is available now for PC.
      MORE: World of Warcraft: Two of Cataclysm’s Good Guys Could Easily Save The Day in Dragonflight
                     Source: Wowhead (via GameSpot)
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. These open-world games are worth playing just for their distinct and fun weapons, from the wildly wacky to the seriously cool. Fans who want to explore a new chapter in The Elder Scrolls after the release of Gold Road may have to wait a while for a new storyline. The MCU needs to give the hero Blindspot a proper introduction in Daredevil: Born Again. Gamescom announces its annual award nominees for the year, but the Nintendo category is notably absent from the list. Megumi is currently still stuck with Sukuna. He will eventually try to break free and fight back against Sukuna in JJK. Not many of Dexter's relationships have ended well, but Dexter: Resurrection could bring back one of his love interests.  2025 is poised to be an absolutely massive year for the entertainment industry, especially games, movies, and TV.