  HALIFAX - Nova Scotia’s power utility plans to convert a coal-burning electricity station in Cape Breton to burn heavy fuel oil once federal regulations phase out coal entirely in 2030.  Power lines are seen against cloudy skies near Kingston, Ont., Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2022, in Ottawa. Nova Scotia Power plans to convert a coal-burning energy station in Cape Breton to burn heavy fuel oil once federal regulations phase out coal entirely in 2030. HALIFAX - Nova Scotia’s power utility plans to convert a coal-burning electricity station in Cape Breton to burn heavy fuel oil once federal regulations phase out coal entirely in 2030. The proposal has raised the eyebrows of one utility review board member and was characterized as “disturbing” by a climate policy expert. Documents filed by Nova Scotia Power show that three of four coal-fired units at the Lingan Generating Station will be converted to heavy fuel oil in 2030 and are scheduled to operate until 2050. “I have to say, I was a bit surprised,” Nova Scotia Utility and Review Board member Jennifer Nicholson said at a recent hearing. “It doesn’t really seem a lot cleaner.” David Pickles, chief operating officer of the privately owned utility, responded to Nicholson by explaining that the company is required by federal regulation to stop burning coal by 2030. In 2016, the federal government announced coal would be entirely phased out by 2030, a move estimated to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by nearly 100 million tonnes over the following two decades. Pickles told the hearing that it would be less expensive to produce electricity with oil than to replace its coal-burning generating station, as the Cape Breton station already has the capacity to run on oil. The emissions from coal and heavy fuel oil were comparable, he added, but the facility has “a really low utilization rate” and is usually only used to generate reserve electricity during the coldest days of winter. Thomas Arnason McNeil, a climate policy co-ordinator with Halifax-based Ecology Action Centre, says the privately owned energy utility is “getting around’’ coal restrictions by using a fossil fuel with comparable emission levels. “It’s absolutely outrageous,” he said in an interview. “It would be laughable if it wasn’t so dire, I think, and disturbing, quite frankly.” Nova Scotia plans to generate 80 per cent of its energy from renewable resources by 2030. Preparing for “peak” energy usage during cold winter months requires “dispatchable power,” Arnason McNeil said, which can be achieved by storing energy generated from renewable resources on large-scale batteries. “Why instead, are they choosing to take the money of ratepayers and spend it on expensive, polluting technologies?” he said. “It just represents a total lack of imagination, a total lack of ambition.” Jacqueline Foster, a spokesperson for Nova Scotia Power, said in an email Tuesday that the electric utility is committed to helping the government reach the goal of having 80 per cent of the province’s energy by 2030 come from renewables. Emissions from heavy fuel oil would be low and not impact the province’s targets — which have been enshrined into law — because the Lingan coal-fired units would only be used in “limited situations.” “We know it will take a mix of energy solutions, including wind and solar, battery storage, and other generation sources to get there,” she said about the province’s energy goals. “The potential fuel conversion of three units at Lingan is just one small piece of the puzzle.” This report by The Canadian Press was first published July 4, 2023. —- This story was produced with the financial assistance of the Meta and Canadian Press News Fellowship. To join the conversation set a first and last name in your user profile. Sign in or register for free to join the Conversation 
Error! There was an error processing your request.
         
           There was a problem with the recaptcha. Please try again.
         
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         
                                 Want more of the latest from us? Sign up for more at our newsletter page.
                             
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: © Copyright 2024 Metroland Media Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved
8 Spadina Avenue, Suite 10A, Toronto, ON M5V 0S8       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.    
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email. 