
NEXT |
The Queue: Bisexual Old God 
 World of Warcraft has been delivering content more consistently than we’ve seen in years, as we’ve already had two minor patches fall during Dragonflight Season 1. But we’re about to get our first major patch of the expansion with patch 10.1, Embers of Neltharion, which out following maintenance on Tuesday, May 2. But for everyone working on finishing up their Season 1 goals, the season will wrap up before the servers go down for maintenance:  Dragonflight Season 1 ends on Monday, May 1 at 10:00 pm pacific (with some caveats). The WoW devs have done a fantastic job keeping the community updated on expansion patches. The original roadmap for Dragonflight came out within a month of the expansion’s launch, and the team has nailed its milestones thus far. Dragonflight Season 2 will include a refresh of the Mythic+ dungeon pool, the new Aberrus raid, and a new PVP season, as well as big changes to Mythic+ affixes and a new gear upgrade system. But in addition to the new season, patch 10.1 is packed with content, including our first major progression of the Dragonflight storyline, the new Zaralek Caverns zone, and the new Niffen Renown track. But before all of that can happen, Season 1 will come to an end. For PVP players, all chances for Season 1 rewards, titles, or rankings cut off immediately as the season ends, so at 10pm pacific on May 1, you’re done. But Mythic+ players have a bit of extra time for some seasonal goals: while player ratings for the Thundering Hero achievement end when the season ends, they still have another week to earn other Season 1 achievements. That means you can finish out those achievements right up until May 9 when Dragonflight Season 2 begins. While that extra week could be handy, there will be plenty of distractions during the first week of patch 10.1 as you dig into the latest story quests, collect gear upgrades, and explore Zaralek Caverns — so you may want to make sure your Mythic+ goals are done by the 1st regardless. With only a few weeks left before the season ends, it’s time plan your final blast to push your preferred ranking. Happy Blasting!    Blizzard Watch is a safe space for all readers. By leaving comments on this site you agree to follow our  commenting and community guidelines.  Toggle Dark Mode: