Bud Light is in hot water with some conservatives... Last week, the beer brand shared an ad for their "Easy Carry Contest" with TikToker Dylan Mulvaney and it was a lightning rod of controversy for transphobes who quickly launched a rallying cry to boycott the brand. Kid Rock even shot at cases of the beer with an AR-15. And Hercules star Kevin Sorbo is just one of the latest celebrities to chime in on the drama. The 64-year-old quote tweeted a now-deleted tweet from @ClownWorld_ that presumably had some thoughts about the brand deal. Sorbo tweeted, "I’ve always preferred Busch Light anyways." His tweet doesn't actually make the point he thinks he's making since Busch Light and Bud Light are both owned by the same company, Anheuser-Busch, but alas. Xena: Warrior Princess star Lucy Lawless quickly clapped back at her longtime assocaite and co-star. "P(nut), you who have EVERYTHING, why do you have to stomp on Transpeople to feel taller?" She concluded the tweet with, "To Kevin, with love. #VoidInside" When other conservatives directed their frustration at Lawless, she quickly clapped back at them too. "The little guy always needs allies. And anyway, YOURE NOT THE BOSS OF ME. MWAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHHAAAAAAAA."  \u201cP(nut), you who have EVERYTHING, why do you have to stomp on Transpeople to feel taller? To Kevin, with love.\n#VoidInside.\u201d — Lucy Lawless (@Lucy Lawless) 1680547402 Xena wins this round! Lawless is a longtime ally of the LGBTQ+ community and even appeared as a judge on Drag Race Down Under. Hopefully Sorbo sees the error in his ways... Xena: Warrior Princess was cancelled in 2001 and Lawless went on to make a number of TV and film appearances, most notably in Spartucus, Euro-Trip, Parks and Recreation, numerous voice-acting gigs, and many more. When the show began in 1995, Lawless was 27-years-old. Yes, that was Lawless' real singing voice in Xena: Warrior Princess.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.