Embrace the "blues" this January, and be inspired! (Maria Shine Stewart, special to cleveland.com) SOUTH EUCLID, Ohio -- A seasonal quiz, for your perusal. How best to spend January in our Hillcrest area? A. Roll up in a tight ball under a quilt, or two, and wait for spring. B. Nod off in front of the television and watch that weary rerun again. C. Glaze over during that comedy that is falling flat -- even with its raucous laugh track. D. Note that the clouds above are gloomy, the trees are shivering, the snow has turned gray and the salt has made your boots thirsty. E. None of the above! Rather, roll up and roll out. Take a nap; awaken refreshed. Remember some things that have made you laugh. Look for that charming junco at the bird feeder or the deer prancing despite the cold. In short: Shift gears. Do whatever helps you think. It is possible to find inspiration even on the doldrum days. Break the mold of sleep-and-sulk (we’ve all been there). Take things slow, but keep going. And please read on. A worthy transformation: Notre Dame College’s Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion will host “Transformation: Leading Ourselves and Communities Toward a Brighter Future,” a weeklong series of events celebrating the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. and including NDC’s inaugural DEI Leadership Summit. Events are free and open to the general public, but seating is limited. The week begins Jan. 17 with remarks by President J. Michael Pressimone, followed by a keynote speech by NDC alumna Rita Williams, Class of 1985, EMBA, and a performance by the NDC choir. Light refreshments will be available at the gathering, which will be held at 4 p.m. in Christ the King Chapel, on the third floor of the Administration Building. On Jan. 18, the DEI Leadership Summit will begin with a Leadership Workshop facilitated by presenter Dartanian Warr, Ph.D., a faculty member of NDC’s MBA program. The workshop will be held at 4 p.m. in the Great Room, also in the Administration Building, third floor. Workshop participants will receive an NDC certificate. NDC students, employees and members of the local community are also invited to attend a Dinner & Dialogue scheduled for 4 to 7 p.m. Jan. 19 in the Great Room. The week will conclude with a Leadership Panel scheduled for Jan. 20 by invitation only, for NDC students and MBA faculty, staff and alumni. The week’s events are co-sponsored by the Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, the NDC MBA Program and the NDC Centennial Committees. Notre Dame College is located at 4545 College Road in South Euclid. For further information, contact Sandra Golden at sgolden@ndc.edu or 216-373-6471. Applause! Lilly Makee of Mayfield Heights has graduated from Ohio Dominican University, completing a Master of Education in curriculum and instruction. Makee is among 159 students who earned their degrees following the fall 2022 semester. Michael Petronzio of Gates Mills was named to the Westminster College Dean’s List for the fall 2022 semester. Petronzio is majoring in molecular biology. Capital University has announced its president’s list honorees for the fall 2022, including Fran Longano of Mayfield Heights and Vince Daher of Highland Heights. Slippery Rock University has announced its dean’s list for fall 2022 semester, and Lyndhurst resident Evan Knaus achieved this honor. Congratulations, all! Dr. Ben Brouhard, an outstanding volunteer recognized by Medical Mutual. (Photo Courtesy of Medical Mutual/McKinley Wiley) An outstanding “senior”? Kindness, compassion and a sense of purpose propel those who thrive across the life span. I was excited to learn that Lyndhurst’s Ben Brouhard (Dr. Brouhard to more than a few) has been recognized by Medical Mutual for his work with the Cleveland Animal Protective League. He is among a total of six senior achievers who give -- and give some more -- of their time, talent and heart. A deep bow (and a “wow”) to Ben and all retirees who serve. Brouhard practiced pediatric medicine until his retirement in 2016 as executive director for Women and Children’s Health and associate chief medical officer for MetroHealth. Inspired by his wife, a Rotarian, he began his own second act. At APL, he started as a dog walker, then a coach for other walkers. And when he began volunteering at the adoption desk, coordinating meetings between new pet owners and their dogs, his commitment deepened yet again. Medical Mutual’s Outstanding Senior Volunteer Awards is a 30-year tradition. This year’s awards honor those still willing to lend precious time through the pandemic. “Medical Mutual is proud to honor these exceptional seniors,” said Christine Taylor, director of community affairs at Medical Mutual. “With their selflessness and dedication, they are amazing examples of how one person can lift up an entire community. “Not only are our Outstanding Senior Volunteers making a real difference around them, they’re inspiring others to do the same.” Agreed. Let’s strive to do the next, best thing in our power to help, heal and spread hope. Lend me your words! Please send Sun Messages of accomplishments, awards, events and opportunities: to mariashinestewart@gmail.com Read more from the Sun Messenger. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices