
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/09/27/prologis-explains-why-todays-supply-chains-require-more-logistics-space/   The REIT calls it the supply chain productivity paradox. In today's world, 57% more logistics real estate is required to support $1 billion in retail sales than a decade ago, a new analysis by Prologis has found.  Ten years ago, 500,000 SF would have been sufficient to do the job. Today, 800,000 SF is needed. "Today, these supply chains amount to 1.2 billion SF and support $1.4 trillion in retail sales (on 2022 dollars basis)," Prologis reported. This has happened despite automation and data analytics advancements, to create what it calls "the supply chain productivity paradox." "This paradox has happened because larger, decentralized logistics real estate networks unlock revenues and save on costs in ways that were previously not possible or well understood." 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 They consist of 22 retail and 171 residential units. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
