Vue Storefront, a Y Combinator-backed startup that aims to improve customers' experiences with e-commerce sites, just raised $20 million in fresh funds. The Polish company, founded in 2020, has built a plug-and-play frontend system for marketplace sites. This is what customers see and interact with, rather than the behind-the-scenes backend system, and is known as "headless commerce". Vue Storefront integrates with a bevy of backend service providers so its customers can tweak and change those systems without affecting the customer-facing website.  Headless commerce is a modular strategy that is used by the likes of Nike, Audi, and Shopify Plus. It is an alternative to all-in-one systems that take care of both frontend and backend but where changes could influence the frontend customer experience or mean a complete system overhaul. Its level of customization, customer personalization, better page load times, and ease of integration with different backend systems when licenses are up are often touted as benefits. Each of these help to boost conversion rates and ultimately sales, cofounder and CEO Patrick Friday told Insider. Vue Storefront is rooted in open-source development, having spun out from a design agency. The company is "absolutely obsessed with developer experience," Friday said. It gives away some features for free so that developers can try it out, such as basic design themes that can be customized and a user interface library.  It uses APIs to connect to different service providers in a bid to make building e-commerce websites simple for frontend engineers. This is particularly useful for offline retailers who were forced to go online during the pandemic and those who don't have large tech teams or budgets to build systems from scratch, Friday said.  The startup is now focusing on its enterprise offering, which builds on the open-source product. The enterprise package runs on Vue Storefront's own cloud platform, which it says increases security and performance and has additional integrations. It operates a SaaS licensing model and counts Amazon aggregator Berlin Brand Group, Zenith Watches, and Zadig & Voltaire among its customers. Its partner integrations include mainstream systems Magenta, Salesforce, and SAP, and content management platforms such as Storyblok as well as payment providers Stripe, Paypal and Checkout.com. Friday teased a major product upgrade targeted at the US enterprise market, to be announced at Las Vegas' Shoptalk conference later this month. It comes amid a push into the US market, which Friday said is attractive due to its size. The CEO's end goal is to have Vue Storefront support all online transactions, not just e-commerce. "Travel, banking, insurance – everything is going digital," he said. "And as long as you can buy a product or service online, we can serve the product to them."  The round was led by London-based firm Felix Capital, which has previously backed SaaS companies TravelPerk and Mirakl. Mirakl CEO Philippe Corrot and engineering head Nagi Letaifa also participated alongside existing investors Creandum, Earlybird, and SquareOne.  The startup plans to bolster headcount from 100 to 135 by the end of the year, with a focus on building go-to-market teams in the US and Europe. It brings the company's total raised to $40 million. Check out the 14-slide redacted pitch deck below: 
                                Read next
                               Jump to