ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Among the prized possessions that John Jenkins has collected in his career: a handwritten letter from former USA Basketball coach Gregg Popovich for his role on the Tokyo Olympic team, and a gold medal from those games. His medal is a replica. His effort was very real. And who knows, another shiny souvenir might be coming his way in a few weeks. As part of its preparations for big tournaments in recent years — such as the World Cup, which begins on Friday in the Philippines, Indonesia and Japan — USA Basketball has been taking a few extra players to help in practices and workouts. Jenkins, Langston Galloway and Eric Mika were the trio that got the call for this trip; they go home on Sunday, one day before the Americans leave for Manila and their World Cup run. “To have this opportunity given to me again, I’ve never been more grateful in my life than now,” Jenkins said. These aren’t some guys off the street who were brought in to be tackling dummies. Make no mistake: They all could be on NBA rosters right now. Galloway has appeared in 452 NBA games with seven different franchises. Jenkins has appeared in 171 games with five franchises. Mika had six points and seven rebounds in his only NBA game, more than holding his own on a night where LeBron James and Anthony Davis were on the opposing team. They were among the 52 players, most of them from the G League, that USA Basketball brought in for the 12 qualifying games — six different teams were assembled to play each of the two-game windows that wound up securing the Americans their spot in the World Cup. “The people working in USA Basketball, we’re just placeholders, right?” said Sean Ford, USA Basketball’s men’s national team director. “But there’s a lot of people that contribute to make USA Basketball what it is. And once you’ve done it, you own a piece of USA Basketball — and we can never have too many investors. So, they feel a part of it.” As they should. Nobody played in more World Cup qualifying games than Galloway, who appeared in 10 of the 12 contests. On the night when the Americans clinched the World Cup spot in February, Galloway led the charge in an 88-77 win over Uruguay with 21 points — including 11 straight in the fourth quarter to help put the win away. It’s the guys like him that gave the U.S. a chance to win gold this summer. “It’d be a huge accomplishment,” said Galloway, a pro who’ll play in Italy this season and has own shoe line — ETHICS, it’s called, with one of his latest drops a shoe in the red, white and blue colors of the U.S. flag. “To see them win it all, it’d be a huge moment for me, John, Eric. We helped get them here. Now let’s finish the job.” Mika was brought over to work with the U.S. team’s big guys, like Walker Kessler and Jaren Jackson Jr. It was also not an accident that USA Basketball chose three players to join the 12-man roster on the trip; that gave the team 15 for practice, or three teams of five. “It says a lot about their character,” Kessler said. “They’re unbelievable guys. Obviously, incredibly talented. Eric’s a great player, great guy, and it says so much that he wanted to come here and be part of the team and make the team better.” Mika and Jenkins are planning to return to the G League Ignite roster this coming season. They both used plenty of the same words — like “gratitude” toward Ford for inviting them and “honor” to get to wear USA on their chests on foreign soil again. “This got me in great shape,” said Mika, who got his World Cup teammates to sign his official team jersey as a souvenir. “Even if I didn’t get tons of reps in practice, I got tons of reps after with great coaches, with a great staff, with great players. It got me a lot of confidence; I scrimmaged against them and I know I can hang with these cats. I’m not these guys, I’m not on their level, but I can play with them. I don’t think I’ve missed my window to make it back to the NBA.” The team flies to Manila on Monday. By then, Jenkins, Galloway and Mika will be home — ready to root for gold. And when USA Basketball calls again, as it likely will, they’ll all come running to be part of whatever’s next. “A mentor told me to always serve others,” Jenkins said. “That’s my purpose. However I can help, I’ve got to do it. My role is a little bit different, but I still think it’s pretty valuable.” ___ AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and AP sports: https://apnews.com/sports New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.