Or: how to get that ruddy crate to hover in the right place. So, you've reached The High Keep in the long list of Hogwarts Legacy missions, and you've got stuck at the point where the game instructs you to Climb the Battlements. So how exactly do you climb them? If you've landed on this page for that very reason, don't worry - you're not alone in getting stumped when asked to climb the battlements. And luckily, there is a way to proceed. This isn't a glitch or anything like that. It's just a bit unclear what you're meant to do to progress. Keep on reading and we'll explain how to climb the battlements in Hogwarts Legacy so you can press ahead with the mission and get one step closer to that Hogwarts Legacy ending. Sign up for our gaming newsletter to receive the latest insights, reviews and expert recommendations By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. To climb the battlements in Hogwarts Legacy, you need to follow these steps: For the final step, you need to use Levioso instead of Wingardium Leviosa to hold the crate in position. While Wingardium Leviosa is handy for moving items around, Levioso is the best for levitating those items in one fixed spot. If you get this bit wrong and use Wingardium Leviosa instead of Levioso, the crate will drop to the floor before you try to climb on it. Go for Levioso instead, your original yellow levitation spell, and you won't have that problem. Once the crate is hovering in front of the ledge, thanks to the power of Levioso, simply jump up to climb onto it. Hurrah! You can now move on further through the story. If you get stuck at any point, the video above shows you how to climb the battlements in Hogwarts Legacy. As we said earlier, the crucial bit is to use Levioso at the final moment rather than Wingardium Leviosa. The game doesn't go out of its way to make this clear. In fact, seeing as you have to learn Wingardium Leviosa before you can do this mission, this moment feels downright misleading. Use your old levitation spell, not your new one, and the chest will hover just where you need it. Magic, right? Read more on Hogwarts Legacy: Hungry for more gaming? Visit our video game release schedule, or swing by our hubs for more Gaming and Technology news. Looking for something to watch? Check out our TV Guide or Streaming Guide. Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home — subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to the Radio Times View From My Sofa podcast. Try 10 issues for just £10! Sign up to our reader offer newsletters and be entered into a monthly prize draw. August's prize is a Roberts Play 11 radio. Rising house prices make equity release more attractive to homeowners. Get a free guide and find out if equity release could work for you. Sign up to receive our newsletter! By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.