
			Luke Cowan-Dickie claims ‘rugby has lost the plot’ while Jack Nowell says sending off against Leicester left him ‘shock shocked’
		 Exeter Chiefs players were left fuming at the sending off of Olly Woodburn as they were thrashed 62-19 by Leicester Tigers. Woodburn received a second yellow card after he was judged to have dropped illegally onto Chris Ashton as the latter was being tackled by Stuart Hogg in the act of stretching for the try-line. Having already been sin-binned in the first half for a deliberate knock-on, Woodburn was given his marching orders by referee Karl Dickson, who also awarded a penalty try to Leicester. Though Exeter were in touch at just 22-12 behind, they unravelled spectacularly. Jack Nowell led a chorus of bemusement from non-playing Chiefs during the game. He posted on Twitter: "I'm actually in shock, like shock shocked. What the hell is happening? That's one of the worst decisions I've ever seen. EVER." Luke Cowan-Dickie chimed in by labelling the outcome "mental" and claiming that "rugby has lost the plot". And a third England international and Exeter player, Henry Slade, added: "I have no words." Rob Baxter, the Exeter director of rugby, was far more phlegmatic. He suggested that Woodburn's actions may not have been highlighted if the incident had not been referred to Andrew Jackson, the television match official (TMO). "Circumstances have killed him," Baxter said of Woodburn. "He picked up a yellow card for something he shouldn't have done earlier in the game. Then he is only trying to drive the guy off the field. I can see how it became a second yellow which turns into a red. A dramatic five minutes of action between @LeicesterTigers and @ExeterChiefs 😳Chris Ashton is denied Premiership try 100, before Olly Woodburn is given his marching orders after receiving a second yellow. Leicester are awarded a penalty try.#GallagherPrem pic.twitter.com/20dWUiJDHS "I had quite a clear take on the TMOs' talk and they said that his actions, in diving on a player on the floor, prevented a try being scored. That therefore becomes foul play in the act of scoring a try, which becomes a penalty try, which becomes a yellow card, which becomes his second yellow card.  "I think it was four or five things counting against one player; the fact that he had a yellow card before, the fact that the try doesn't quite get scored. If he slides in and scores the try, nobody even looks at it. Quite a few things make it quite a difficult situation." However, having criticised the number of red cards currently witnessed across the game earlier in the week, Baxter doubled down on his feeling that something needs to be done to stop contests becoming one-sided through numerical advantage. He added: "There are myriad ways of destroying games of rugby. Every bit of punishment we create is taking players off the field." Barring an extraordinary chain of events, Exeter are now out of the play-off race. "All but mathematically, it is done," Baxter said. "We caused all our problems of qualifying way before today – we just haven't picked up those one or two wins to put us in the area. We haven't played with the quality over the course of the season to say we should be in the play-offs." Meanwhile, Jack Nowell could face disciplinary action for a tweet criticising Woodburn's sending off as “one of the worst decisions I have ever seen”. Rugby Football Union officials will be able to cite the precedent Anthony Watson, Nowell’s erstwhile England colleague, who received a suspended one-week ban in November 2021 for “conduct prejudicial to interests of the game”.  Watson had criticised the sending off of then-Bath colleague Mike Williams by referee Ian Tempest and was also made to deliver a presentation to Bath’s senior and academy squads on the importance of respecting match officials.