Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Thursday April 06, 2023 , 2 min Read Online commerce is set to benefit from newer formats like social media, live video, and group buying as consumers are willing to move beyond traditional channels like websites and shopping apps.  Time spent by consumers on social media and photo-video apps like Instagram and Facebook has increased 1.8x in the last three years, making these channels not only lucrative but also the next frontier for online commerce, according to a report by BCG and Matrix Partners.  The report, titled 'Digitizing Consumers in India' and co-authored by consultancy firm BCG and early-stage venture capital firm Matrix Partners, highlights that new commerce models such as assisted and conversational commerce, influencer commerce, live/video commerce and group buying could provide an impetus to existing and new shoppers.  While categories such as electronics, appliances, fashion, and apparel have high penetration, the next wave of growth is likely to be driven by beauty and personal care, and food and beverages, FMCG, and furniture, and décor. The key demographics leading the wave are expected to be consumers aged 35 and over, women, and those from Tier II cities, the report said. Source: Tracxn, BCG analysis The consumer-tech space has seen value creation of more than $250 billion over the last decade with over 40 unicorns emerging in the space, validating the importance of the sector. Moreover, India holds a significant spot in the global consumer landscape with startups logging a higher number of deals than China and Southeast Asia in the last five years.  Other key trends shaping ecommerce include marketplaces overtaking mainstream search engines, increasing awareness and affinity for sustainable products, and growing acceptability for second-hand goods and recommerce.  Emerging technologies like Generative AI and Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) have catalysed broader public interest in consumer tech, the report stated. "ONDC is slowly gaining traction across ecommerce and mobility, with other use cases currently under various stages of implementation," the report stated. 1 2 20 quotes from the great German socialist and philosopher, Karl Marx 3 Advantage AI: How ALLEN is personalising test prep and enhancing learning outcomes for each student 4 Top 10 Hacks to Give Off the Thomas Shelby Vibe 5 India Invested More than a Trillion Rupees for Setting up the Semiconductor Plants. The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.