Mouni Roy and rapper Rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh have released their new song Gatividhi. The rap track has been composed and sung by Honey Singh and Mouni can be seen adding the zing to the party track with her dance moves and edgy styling. Fans of Honey Singh and Mouni have been left impressed by the track and Gatividhi has been trending on social media ever since it was released on Saturday. Rest assured, the song will be playing at every party this Christmas and New Year's.     



 Rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh has been in the news of late. First, it was his chiseled look after he gained extra pounds that made waves on the internet and now, it's his new song Gatividhi, featuring Brahmastra actress Mouni Roy which is grabbing all the attention. The song is a party number and is best suited for this time of the year when the holiday season is in full-swing. Mouni's dance moves, like always are killer and the hook step is easy to replicate. The track has trending music and will become an earworm for music fans.   Read: Merry Christmas: Katrina Kaif, Vijay Sethupathi hint at a 'twist' as they share first poster of film Talking about Gatividhi song, composer and singer Honey Singh said, "Like the name suggests, Gatividhi is going to be a hep party song and Mouni Roy's charm in the video has lifted the song to the next level. The video is killer and I can't wait for the people to see and listen to Gatividhi. Musically, the song somewhere reminds of another Honey Singh song Manali Trance. The visuals of the song present Honey and Mouni grooving to the beats of the song in an underground set-up.  Read: In PICS: After Shah Rukh Khan, photos of Jannat Zubair and brother Ayaan performing Umrah go viral  Mouni Roy said about the song, "It is the perfect song for this time of the year. What better way to celebrate the year ending with a Badass song. It was a perfect collaboration with Yo! Yo! and Namoh Studios."    
Related Stories

Mouni Roy gets adorable wish from husband Suraj Nambiar on her first birthday post wedding | PICMouni-Suraj make for a SEXY couple at her birthday bash; Jannat Zubair & others attend | PICSSanjay Dutt's horror comedy 'The Virgin Tree' ropes in Palak Tiwari and Mouni Roy | Details inside Gatividhi is available for streaming across all leading music platforms. The video is out on YouTube.  (With IANS inputs)     Top News CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea Related Celebrities News Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh  Raksha Bandhan 2024: Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Shweta remembers late brother, pens special note Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside 'Got a problem with that?': Amitabh Bachchan REVEALS real reason why he keeps working even at 81 Raksha Bandhan 2024: Bhumi Pednekar's sister reveals how they deal when people think they are twins Latest News Sharad Pawar, Sunita Kejriwal hold close door meeting in Pune, NCP SCP denies political discussions   Jammu and Kashmir: CRPF Inspector killed in encounter with terrorists in Udhampur  Horoscope Today, August 20: Gemini will get an opportunity to serve an elder  Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Coffee Par Kurukshetra: What is the terrifying truth of Kolkata incident?    Aaj Ki Baat: Accused to undergo polygraph test. Will truth surface?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: What happened that night... Has the CBI uncovered every detail?    Muqabla: What evidence did CBI find... Who is now feeling scared?    Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    CPI-M leader Sitaram Yechury admitted to Delhi AIIMS' emergency department, here's why   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed    Israel has accepted US-backed proposal for ceasefire, says Blinken; asks Hamas to do same   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   Court of Arbitration for Sport releases detailed verdict in response to Vinesh Phogat's plea   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: North Delhi successfully chase down 176 to register maiden win   Naseem Shah returns as Pakistan announce playing XI for first Test against Bangladesh   England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   Chest Pain to Bone Pain: 10 early signs of lung cancer you should never ignore   Dark neck and skin warts? THIS disease can be the reason, know prevention tips   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study  