Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Kim Hairston In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, in addition to $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust. Kim Hairston In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, in addition to $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust. In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, in addition to $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust. A medical waste incineration company has agreed to pay one of the largest fines in a criminal environmental case in Maryland’s history after state investigators found its South Baltimore facility was inadequately burning contaminated refuse from hospitals and other medical facilities, state officials said Tuesday.In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, plus $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust.The medical waste incinerator in the Hawkins Point industrial area, across Curtis Creek from the residential neighborhoods of Curtis Bay, is the nation’s largest, accepting materials from around the nation and Canada. It was acquired by Los Angeles-based private equity firm Aurora Capital Partners in 2021, following Maryland’s investigation.The company pleaded guilty to 40 counts in violation of its refuse disposal permit, including failing to treat medical waste, provide adequate personnel and equipment, prevent leakage and maintain adequate records.In a statement, Curtis Bay Energy said it cooperated fully with the state investigation into “past violations committed by employees under prior ownership and management.”“Since acquiring the company, new ownership and facility management have significantly increased investments in plant equipment, personnel, process improvements and training,” according to the statement. “Curtis Bay Energy remains committed to increasing its investment for preventative maintenance and workforce training and to honor its place in the community and region.”After receiving a tip about the facility in November 2019, the Environmental and Natural Resources Crimes Unit of the attorney general’s office conducted surveillance at the facility, revealing a host of environmental violations, which they say occurred with the knowledge of plant management.Under environmental laws, the plant is supposed to incinerate medical waste down to a fine ash in order to prevent any possible spread of disease. But, according to the company’s plea agreement, investigators uncovered a troubling pattern: The incinerator was consistently sending piles of ash to the King George Landfill in Virginia laden with unburned medical waste, such as surgical gloves, bedding, medical equipment and bright red medical waste bags.

On one occasion, a transport truck was carrying the waste to the landfill when it caught fire, and burned through a metal carrying container, according to the plea, provided by the attorney general’s office.On two occasions, investigators from the attorney general’s office tailed trucks coming from the incinerator, and documented that the trucks “leaked fluid” onto the road for the duration of the roughly two-hour, 110-mile journey to the landfill, and “covered the agents’ cars and windshields with an unknown substance,” according to the plea.
In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, in addition to $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust.The state’s investigation uncovered that the volume of waste being treated at the plant ballooned from 24,192 tons in 2018 to 30,062 tons in 2019, even as the plant spent less on labor. Meanwhile, the plant manager was in daily communication with corporate leaders about “the amount of waste processed each day and the profit recognized per pound.”After learning about the state’s investigation, the company’s counsel contacted the attorney general’s office, according to the plea deal.Since March 2020, the facility has had “no known, unaddressed significant violations” relating to its disposal of medical waste and new personnel are “responsible for the company and facility operations,” according to the plea documents.Between March 2012 and January 2022, the company paid several other fines to Maryland for air pollution violations, totaling $126,000 in penalties and $75,000 for a supplemental environmental project, said Jay Apperson, a spokesman for the Maryland Department of the Environment. The company also settled two violations from MDE’s Solid Waste Program for $5,000 each in 2011 and 2012, Apperson said.The former director of plant operations, Kenneth T. Jackson, also pleaded guilty to several violations following the state’s investigation, and agreed to pay a $30,000 fine to the state. Under the plea, a possible two-year prison sentence was suspended, and Jackson will face three years of supervised probation.One other plant employee, former plant manager Thomas Keefer, who reported to Jackson, also was charged; his case is still pending. Keefer’s attorney, Michael Tomko, said his client entered a “not guilty” plea, and his team is still reviewing the evidence in the case.The attorney general’s case has closed now, because the statute of limitations for environmental crimes in Maryland is three years unless it’s a felony, said Kory Lemmert, an assistant attorney general who worked on the case.The original complaint received by the attorney general’s office was about a leak of liquid being discharged from a building at the facility toward a nearby storm drain. The complainant said the leak had been ongoing for months, dating back to July 2019.Investigators from the attorney general’s office visited the property that December, and discovered a sump pump placed outside the building, which housed steam condenser units. A hose connected to the pump ran through a wooded area and beyond a chain-link fence, where it dumped the liquid onto an adjacent property, owned by the state of Maryland, according to the plea documents for Jackson.The liquid was tested, and was “primarily free of contaminants,” according to the plea documents. But discharging it onto the ground, next to a storm drain, was illegal without a permit from the state.The tipster had told the attorney general’s office that, during a surprise inspection by the Maryland Department of the Environment in November 2019, employees disconnected the hose and hid it in the forest so it wouldn’t be spotted, while the inspectors were “intentionally delayed” at the facility’s front office, according to Jackson’s plea documents.A few months later, investigators from the attorney general’s office watched as MDE made another surprise inspection and employees disconnected the hose and hid it in the woods. When confronted, Jackson, as well as another plant manager, denied knowing about it.But when the MDE inspector explained that the state knew the system had been illegally discharging wastewater for months, Jackson admitted to it and agreed to stop the discharges.In a statement provided to The Baltimore Sun, Jackson’s attorney W. Warren Hamel said that Jackson has paid his fine, and spoke about the allegations against him.“We note that the water that was discharged on to the ground was simply that — steam condensate that is essentially tap water with certain impurities removed by the process,” Hamel wrote. “As to the ash, the medical waste was heated to between 1800 and 2000 degrees, well beyond the temperature required to assure that the ash was sterilized, and all ash was disposed of at an appropriate landfill in Virginia.”Apperson said in a statement that the company paid a $22,510 penalty to settle the pollution violations related to the hose from late 2019 and early 2020.After the leak was discovered, the attorney general’s office continued its surveillance, watching as truckloads of partially burned waste made their way from the facility to the landfill. Aerial photographs determined that the incinerator’s operations extended beyond its permitted four-acre tract onto two acres owned by the City of Baltimore where the company stored trucks and containers of medical waste, without authorization from state regulators, according to the plea documents.During a news conference Tuesday, Maryland Secretary of the Environment Serena McIlwain responded to questions about whether officials should have informed the surrounding community when the discharge was occurring.“If we had found at that time there were issues that could pointedly impact one of the community members, or a whole community, we would have reached out, but we did not find that,” McIlwain said.McIlwain said her department has continued regular inspections of the facility since the discovery of the violations, including unannounced inspections.Since Curtis Bay Energy was acquired in 2021, the company has invested in infrastructure improvements, training and new regulatory oversight personnel, Maryland Attorney General Anthony Brown said.“They’ve been reporting even minor violations to MDE as they occur, and as they’re supposed to do,” Brown said. “As attorney general, I commit to you: We will continue to hold Curtis Bay Energy accountable.”Some community members said that Tuesday’s news, and the promise of additional funding, does little to address the overarching concerns of Curtis Bay residents, who worry that the area’s heavy industry is being allowed to operate at a cost to residents’ health and wellbeing.“It’s not something that just going to one facility or polluting industry and giving them a fine every few years [addresses], because this is something that impacts residents and communities every day,” said Carlos Sanchez, a youth leader and outreach specialist at the South Baltimore Community Land Trust.Community groups had asked that Maryland Gov. Wes Moore consider issuing an air pollution “state of emergency” for Curtis Bay and the surrounding area, because of the high density of industry, including the CSX coal piers, at which an explosion occurred in 2021, and which they say spreads coal dust around the community. But they were denied, Sanchez said.Groups like the Land Trust would much rather see the incinerator closed altogether. Or commitments from key medical institutions to handle medical waste with other treatment methods, said Greg Sawtell, the Land Trust’s Zero Waste Just Transition director.“Communities across the country have moved away from medical waste incinerators a long time ago because of concerns like this, where you have a technology that wants to make as much profit from burning and disposing of toxic, hazardous medical waste as possible,” Sawtell said. In a guilty plea signed this August, Curtis Bay Energy agreed to pay the state a $1 million penalty, plus $750,000 for environmental projects for the surrounding community, to be distributed to local organizations by the Chesapeake Bay Trust. The medical waste incinerator in the Hawkins Point industrial area, across Curtis Creek from the residential neighborhoods of Curtis Bay, is the nation’s largest, accepting materials from around the nation and Canada. It was acquired by Los Angeles-based private equity firm Aurora Capital Partners in 2021, following Maryland’s investigation. The company pleaded guilty to 40 counts in violation of its refuse disposal permit, including failing to treat medical waste, provide adequate personnel and equipment, prevent leakage and maintain adequate records. In a statement, Curtis Bay Energy said it cooperated fully with the state investigation into “past violations committed by employees under prior ownership and management.” “Since acquiring the company, new ownership and facility management have significantly increased investments in plant equipment, personnel, process improvements and training,” according to the statement. “Curtis Bay Energy remains committed to increasing its investment for preventative maintenance and workforce training and to honor its place in the community and region.” After receiving a tip about the facility in November 2019, the Environmental and Natural Resources Crimes Unit of the attorney general’s office conducted surveillance at the facility, revealing a host of environmental violations, which they say occurred with the knowledge of plant management. Under environmental laws, the plant is supposed to incinerate medical waste down to a fine ash in order to prevent any possible spread of disease. But, according to the company’s plea agreement, investigators uncovered a troubling pattern: The incinerator was consistently sending piles of ash to the King George Landfill in Virginia laden with unburned medical waste, such as surgical gloves, bedding, medical equipment and bright red medical waste bags. On one occasion, a transport truck was carrying the waste to the landfill when it caught fire, and burned through a metal carrying container, according to the plea, provided by the attorney general’s office. On two occasions, investigators from the attorney general’s office tailed trucks coming from the incinerator, and documented that the trucks “leaked fluid” onto the road for the duration of the roughly two-hour, 110-mile journey to the landfill, and “covered the agents’ cars and windshields with an unknown substance,” according to the plea. The state’s investigation uncovered that the volume of waste being treated at the plant ballooned from 24,192 tons in 2018 to 30,062 tons in 2019, even as the plant spent less on labor. Meanwhile, the plant manager was in daily communication with corporate leaders about “the amount of waste processed each day and the profit recognized per pound.” After learning about the state’s investigation, the company’s counsel contacted the attorney general’s office, according to the plea deal. Since March 2020, the facility has had “no known, unaddressed significant violations” relating to its disposal of medical waste and new personnel are “responsible for the company and facility operations,” according to the plea documents. Between March 2012 and January 2022, the company paid several other fines to Maryland for air pollution violations, totaling $126,000 in penalties and $75,000 for a supplemental environmental project, said Jay Apperson, a spokesman for the Maryland Department of the Environment. The company also settled two violations from MDE’s Solid Waste Program for $5,000 each in 2011 and 2012, Apperson said. The former director of plant operations, Kenneth T. Jackson, also pleaded guilty to several violations following the state’s investigation, and agreed to pay a $30,000 fine to the state. Under the plea, a possible two-year prison sentence was suspended, and Jackson will face three years of supervised probation. One other plant employee, former plant manager Thomas Keefer, who reported to Jackson, also was charged; his case is still pending. Keefer’s attorney, Michael Tomko, said his client entered a “not guilty” plea, and his team is still reviewing the evidence in the case. The attorney general’s case has closed now, because the statute of limitations for environmental crimes in Maryland is three years unless it’s a felony, said Kory Lemmert, an assistant attorney general who worked on the case. The original complaint received by the attorney general’s office was about a leak of liquid being discharged from a building at the facility toward a nearby storm drain. The complainant said the leak had been ongoing for months, dating back to July 2019. Investigators from the attorney general’s office visited the property that December, and discovered a sump pump placed outside the building, which housed steam condenser units. A hose connected to the pump ran through a wooded area and beyond a chain-link fence, where it dumped the liquid onto an adjacent property, owned by the state of Maryland, according to the plea documents for Jackson. The liquid was tested, and was “primarily free of contaminants,” according to the plea documents. But discharging it onto the ground, next to a storm drain, was illegal without a permit from the state. The tipster had told the attorney general’s office that, during a surprise inspection by the Maryland Department of the Environment in November 2019, employees disconnected the hose and hid it in the forest so it wouldn’t be spotted, while the inspectors were “intentionally delayed” at the facility’s front office, according to Jackson’s plea documents. A few months later, investigators from the attorney general’s office watched as MDE made another surprise inspection and employees disconnected the hose and hid it in the woods. When confronted, Jackson, as well as another plant manager, denied knowing about it. But when the MDE inspector explained that the state knew the system had been illegally discharging wastewater for months, Jackson admitted to it and agreed to stop the discharges. In a statement provided to The Baltimore Sun, Jackson’s attorney W. Warren Hamel said that Jackson has paid his fine, and spoke about the allegations against him. “We note that the water that was discharged on to the ground was simply that — steam condensate that is essentially tap water with certain impurities removed by the process,” Hamel wrote. “As to the ash, the medical waste was heated to between 1800 and 2000 degrees, well beyond the temperature required to assure that the ash was sterilized, and all ash was disposed of at an appropriate landfill in Virginia.” Apperson said in a statement that the company paid a $22,510 penalty to settle the pollution violations related to the hose from late 2019 and early 2020. After the leak was discovered, the attorney general’s office continued its surveillance, watching as truckloads of partially burned waste made their way from the facility to the landfill. Aerial photographs determined that the incinerator’s operations extended beyond its permitted four-acre tract onto two acres owned by the City of Baltimore where the company stored trucks and containers of medical waste, without authorization from state regulators, according to the plea documents. During a news conference Tuesday, Maryland Secretary of the Environment Serena McIlwain responded to questions about whether officials should have informed the surrounding community when the discharge was occurring. “If we had found at that time there were issues that could pointedly impact one of the community members, or a whole community, we would have reached out, but we did not find that,” McIlwain said. McIlwain said her department has continued regular inspections of the facility since the discovery of the violations, including unannounced inspections. Since Curtis Bay Energy was acquired in 2021, the company has invested in infrastructure improvements, training and new regulatory oversight personnel, Maryland Attorney General Anthony Brown said. “They’ve been reporting even minor violations to MDE as they occur, and as they’re supposed to do,” Brown said. “As attorney general, I commit to you: We will continue to hold Curtis Bay Energy accountable.” Some community members said that Tuesday’s news, and the promise of additional funding, does little to address the overarching concerns of Curtis Bay residents, who worry that the area’s heavy industry is being allowed to operate at a cost to residents’ health and wellbeing. “It’s not something that just going to one facility or polluting industry and giving them a fine every few years [addresses], because this is something that impacts residents and communities every day,” said Carlos Sanchez, a youth leader and outreach specialist at the South Baltimore Community Land Trust. Community groups had asked that Maryland Gov. Wes Moore consider issuing an air pollution “state of emergency” for Curtis Bay and the surrounding area, because of the high density of industry, including the CSX coal piers, at which an explosion occurred in 2021, and which they say spreads coal dust around the community. But they were denied, Sanchez said. Groups like the Land Trust would much rather see the incinerator closed altogether. Or commitments from key medical institutions to handle medical waste with other treatment methods, said Greg Sawtell, the Land Trust’s Zero Waste Just Transition director. “Communities across the country have moved away from medical waste incinerators a long time ago because of concerns like this, where you have a technology that wants to make as much profit from burning and disposing of toxic, hazardous medical waste as possible,” Sawtell said. Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun