Advertisement Advertisement Yuga Labs and A Bathing Ape, also known as BAPE, have joined hands to reimagine iconic designs scheduled to become available starting in November 2023. What brings them together is the mutual understanding of community values, irreverence, and opulence. The upcoming launch has taken joint inspiration from BAYC Swamp and Ura-Harajuku. Their first collaboration has been dedicated to community members, giving them early access to accessories and apparel. It is a limited edition collection with prices not yet revealed; however, the early access perspective remains stagnant for the collection. It will debut in Hong Kong at ApeFest on November 4, 2023. Interested community members can purchase the design onsite with token-gated access. The collection will then be dropped in BAPETAVERSE for members on that platform. Stores across the globe will see the designs arrive in December. This includes BAPE.COM and BAPE Store. Advertisement The development comes months after Yuga Labs was featured on the list of CoinDesk as the most influential venture in 2022. The parent company behind Bored Ape Yacht Club was announced as a leader in non-fungible tokens and intellectual property. The news was confirmed by CoinDesk on X, formerly Twitter, acknowledging that Yuga Labs has ventured out to build an NFT empire and lead the segment of NFT and intellectual property. CoinDesk also said that Yuga Labs is on a path to becoming a multi-tiered enterprise like Pixar. Yuga Labs recently raised $450 million in a funding round that happened in March this year. It was led by a16z and helped the team kick up the valuation to $4 billion. Their idea was originally to have just an NFT. It blasted all across the world, becoming more of a movement for the NFT community, the desires of which could only be met by a team of four friends. They have seen huge growth since February 2021 and have a long way to go—something that is evident from their collaboration with A Bathing Ape, BAPE. Yuga Labs has also shared the news with the community on X. Members and followers have responded positively to the announcement, with most of them calling it a great collaboration. Meanwhile, the Ape coin has started exchanging hands at $1.12 for every piece, a slip of 0.37% in the last 24 hours. The trading volume has exceeded the milestone of $41.35 million. This is interesting because the volume was at $36.58 million when the token was being traded at $1.1542. Advertisement Interested participants have been suggested to visit ApeFest and get their mitts on the exclusive launch of the new collection by Yuga Labs and BAPE. The event is scheduled to occur in Hong Kong on November 4, 2023. It will eventually go live for BAPETAVERSE, the BAPE Store, and the official website, which will be accessible worldwide. Advertisement 