      The city of Richmond has finalized a deal with a developer to build a minor-league ballpark and a neighborhood around it, the surest sign yet the city will replace the aging Diamond after 20 years of deliberation. City leaders approved the agreement Monday night, saying opening day at the new stadium is now projected for 2026, a year after the deadline. Last fall, the city announced with great fanfare it had come to an agreement with RVA Diamond Partners to build a stadium, residences, a hotel, retail and green space on 68 acres along Arthur Ashe Boulevard where The Diamond currently stands. The development is expected to cost $2.4 billion. Richmond chose RVA Diamond Partners after nine months of soliciting proposals and narrowing down the bidders. RVA Diamond Partners includes Thalhimer Realty Partners, design firms, workforce development organizations and other entities. But for months, the deal was not put in ink. Rising interest rates delayed progress, people familiar with the project said. Lou DiBella, managing general partner for the Flying Squirrels baseball team, recently lamented the glacial pace and questioned whether minor-league baseball would continue in the city. MLB had set a deadline for a new stadium to be operational by 2025. A new baseball stadium on North Arthur Ashe Boulevard would anchor a mixed-use residential neighborhood with retail space and a hotel. On Monday, city leaders and the developer formalized their deal, a significant step toward building a new stadium, a topic Richmond has debated for a generation. “With this partnership, Richmond is one step closer to bringing a high-quality baseball stadium, good-paying jobs, affordable housing, new small businesses, billions in investment and green space to the Diamond District, which will benefit our entire city,” Mayor Levar Stoney said in a statement. Rising interest rates slowed the deal’s progress. When the city began soliciting donors in October 2021, the federal interest rate was 0.08%. Now, it’s nearly 5%. Because of the higher rates, the city says it will convey the land to the Economic Development Authority, which will sell it to RVA Diamond Partners. The city also will cover some of the costs of Phase 1, which includes the demolition of Sports Backers Stadium and the construction of the baseball stadium. It will pay for the public infrastructure, which typically includes roads, water and electricity. Richmond will cover those costs with cash from the land sale, public utilities enterprise funds and general obligation bonds. Richmond asked Major League Baseball for another year to get a ballpark built.  Richmond asked Major League Baseball for another year to get a ballpark built.  Richmond also will widen the tax district, adding adjacent properties along Arthur Ashe Boulevard and Hermitage Road. Tax revenue from the district will be used for building costs, and adding nearby properties to the district will help create a cohesive look from one neighborhood to another, the city said. The project still includes an 11-acre park — the original design showed a crescent-shaped green space weaving around the stadium’s outfield wall and in between buildings. It’s unclear how closely the actual design will match the original renderings. Low-income residents will not be priced out of the neighborhood, the city said. Of the apartments, 20% will go to low-income families, and 100 units will be reserved for those with public housing vouchers. Residences will be sold, too, and the city says a slice of them will be reserved for low-income members of the community. The Flying Squirrels, the Double-A affiliate of the San Francisco Giants, will form a lease agreement to occupy the stadium. So will Virginia Commonwealth University — the school’s baseball team also will call the stadium home. It’s unclear if the one-year delay will have ramifications on the Squirrels or the stadium project. Major League Baseball gave cities a deadline of 2025 to build stadiums up to the league’s standards. Richmond agreed to pay about $3 million this year for repairs and improvements to The Diamond, seemingly buying time. People familiar with the project said in recent weeks that meeting the 2025 deadline was not likely. In February, MLB sent a letter to the Flying Squirrels asking for more evidence that city leaders were committed to funding the project and a finalized plan and timeline for the construction of the ballpark. The city will not start construction unless it has a long-term commitment from MLB, according to the resolution introduced last fall. Though construction has not begun, the nascent Diamond District already has had a outsized effect on the nearby community. Apartment buildings have sprung up on Arthur Ashe Boulevard. The redevelopment in Scott’s Addition is spreading northward. VCU is planning a sprawling athletics complex across Hermitage Road, and a section of town is being transformed. No longer is the neighborhood a sleepy warehouse district. “I believe this project will change the trajectory of the area and the city for generations to come,” said Michael Jones, president of the City Council. Next, the council will have to approve the conveyance of the city-owned land to the Economic Development Authority and rezone it. Jason Guillot of Thalhimer Realty Partners and RVA Diamond Partners called the deal’s approval an “important milestone.” Added Lincoln Saunders, chief administrative officer for the city: “I want to thank RVA Diamond Partners for believing in Richmond and staying committed to their vision of a true live, work, play community and all the community benefits they offered in the original submission, despite rising interest rates and economic headwinds.”  Eric Kolenich (804) 649-6109 ekolenich@timesdispatch.com @EricKolenich on Twitter Growth and Development / Higher Education Reporter   Richmond Flying Squirrels 2023 season in photos  "The helmet nacho is a full-size helmet, 80 oz., filled with chips, all the toppings you want, beef, chicken, cheese, lettuce, tomato, pico, a… With minutes to spare, city workers put the finishing touches on the former-football field turned baseball stadium. Parker Field was now ready… Richmond police have confirmed that they have arrested Ladell Holmes, the suspect in a March 26 aggravated assault in an alley near the Poe Museum. The contractual agreement between Richmond and the developer for the Diamond District presents a tentative construction timeline for a new ballpark. The university anticipates 10,000 students will have a class there next fall.   Key City Council committee voted unanimously Monday to recommend that the city approve a 56-page ordinance which will authorize the deal for t… The city of Richmond is officially moving forward with its Diamond District deal following final approval from city council – solidifying its … The city will delay purchasing Sports Backers Stadium to defer costs, putting VCU’s athletics village in limbo.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.