Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     As fun as it is to meet up with friends in person, that is not always possible. Nowadays, online gaming is very much the standard formula, and an argument could be made that was almost always the case in the PC scene. Steam naturally caters to multiplayer by featuring a wide plethora of titles across a range of genres, ensuring there should be something for just about everyone. In the name of accessibility, a number of Steam games support Remote Play, a feature that allows players to access their games using an external source. Performance depends on their internet connection, but it is a useful tool to know about and occasionally access.
                         An extra but not always present feature of Steam Remote Play is called "Remote Play Together," which essentially allows players to share their game with a friend. While not many titles incorporate this option, it is worth mentioning regardless. That said, what are some of Steam's best co-op games with Remote Play?
                         The article will include Steam games that support both Remote Play and co-op, so not exclusively Remote Play Together games. However, it will be stated if a project supports the latter feature.
                          Those looking for a cooperative challenge should definitely check out Rain World. This hard-as-nails platforming game sees players taking control of a Slugcat as they attempt to make their way through a dystopian and industrial world, avoiding dangerous predators and the drowning rain above. With so many dangers around each corner, surviving Rain World can be a task.
     JRPG fans wanting to play in co-op mode should try the following games in the genre with the best co-op gameplay.                     Bringing a friend along via Remote Play can be a great way to gang up on the creeping creatures that attempt to make a meal out of the Slugcats. With an underlying story and even more Slugcats to unlock with the Downpour DLC, Rain World can be a great cooperative adventure for friends.
       Bread & Fred is a cute and colorful physics-based climbing and platforming game that will truly test your friendships. This cooperative romp can be played solo or with a friend using Remote Play. During a coop session, each player will control one of the adorably-named penguins, who are tethered together to one another via a rope. It's up to players to work together, swinging and gaining momentum in order to scale tricky jumps and platforms on the way up a large mountain. There are mini-games to play, a story to uncover, and even costumes to unlock. Bread & Fred is a ton of fun for two players and will challenge their skills and cooperation.
       Gang Beasts offers up some casually wacky gameplay, letting players jump into a wild and hilarious romp that sees them tugging and pushing on one another to reign supreme as the last one standing across a variety of levels. Those who have played Human Fall Flat will be familiar with Gang Beast's wobbly and unforgiving physics. Players will sometimes struggle just to stay on their feet, especially when their rivals are pulling at their jelly-like forms and trying to pummel them with objects.
                         There is a slight puzzle element to some levels and players can even work cooperatively in certain areas. There are a lot of interesting things to see and do in Gang Beasts, making it a great game to enjoy remotely.
                          Easily one of the most engaging, challenging, and artistic side-scrolling games of the last decade, Cuphead is great for those looking for something unique and visually appealing to play remotely. Players will hop into a colorful hand-drawn adventure featuring Cuphead and Mugman as they tangle with an array of painfully difficult bosses. Those who enjoy hard-as-nails side-scrolling platformers or the nostalgic feel of older cartoons will really dig what Cuphead offers.
                         Thanks to its drop-in style of multiplayer, Cuphead is a great and easy-to-join adventure that players can freely hop in and out of without worry.
                         There are a lot of great AAA titles on Steam for those looking to engage in some high-octane Remote Play but players shouldn't be afraid to try some of the Indie offerings available on Steam. There are quite a few Indie games that provide just as much, if not more, fun than a traditional high-budget game.
                         Take, for example, Wizard of Legend. This top-down roguelike dungeon-crawling adventure is filled to the brim with spell combos and unlockable items that make each run feel different from the last. It's a ton of fun and can be enjoyed in micro-doses thanks to the hectic nature of each attempt. Bringing along a friend just makes the experience that much better.
                          Those itching for something a little different may want to consider picking up Overcooked 2. This is a fun and funny cooperative cooking game that is a downright blast to play locally or remotely with family and friends. The simplistic yet difficult-to-master gameplay is perfect for streaming remotely and the top-down single-screen style makes it much easier for players to track what is happening remotely.
      Overcooked 2 gets hectic rather quickly, with players having to work together to prepare some pretty difficult dishes. It's a cooperative game that can only be survived by solid cooperative play.
                          The Earth Defense Force games are often overlooked thanks to their cheesy dialogue and less-than-awe-inspiring graphics but many players don't realize just how fun these titles are to play. The gameplay reigns supreme, with missions, monsters, mechs, and weaponized warfare against a wide array of aliens and mutant bugs.
      Earth Defense Force 5 can be a lot of fun to play solo, but it's an absolute blast with multiple players. Those who have yet to try this unique brand of cooperative third-person A.I.-attacking combat should definitely give it a try.
                          Anyone seeking a more frightening cooperative experience among friends will fall in love with the dark, psychological horror environment of Phasmophobia. The game is meant for four players who in a team must wander around a house and gather some evidence of paranormal activity, using various items like the crucifix.
     Anyone looking for co-op horror games similar to Phasmophobia should check out these 10 titles.                     Ghost hunting is a popular activity in real life, but it can be hard to actually do it. Phasmophobia is a dream come true for anyone truly passionate about the paranormal, and even in Early Access, it has swept most players off their feet.
                          For the longest time, there was a real market gap for a believable and fun pirate game, but Sea of Thieves came in to fix it. This immensely popular title has dominated Steam's charts since it was available in Early Access, which goes to show how well it's designed.
                         The game has a ton of features from managing a vessel to combat at sea to even exploring various islands and gathering loot as a member of a pirate crew. The game has come an immensely long way, both visually and gameplay-wise, and won't leave any fans of the pirate life cold.
                          Players looking for something exceptionally challenging, ruthless, and difficult should turn their sights on Rust, a game that has been around for quite some time but has remained fairly popular throughout most of its existence.
      Rust is all about survival and picking the right server. At the start, the player has nothing but their own naked body to survive the dangerous wilderness and the evil ways of other players, so either alone or with the help of teammates, they must gather resources, build strong forts, and raid their opponents to come out on top.
       Among Us is a classic story of success that took place years after the game's initial release. Thanks to a ton of positive promotion from streamers, Among Us rocketed into everyone's favorite game due to how light it is and how almost anyone could participate and still thrive in the game.
     Among Us has taken the video game world by storm. InnerSloth should be updating the multiplayer title in the future, but what features does it need?  Among Us is a game about trust and betrayal. Aboard your home in space, there are several crew members clad in various colors. Everyone has a job to complete, but an impostor is out to get everyone else and betray them. Who could it be? With each round, a vote is taken to see who doesn't deserve the trust of the crew.
                          For a co-op shooter experience, one of the best games to snatch right now is Payday 2, due to its affordable price tag. The game provides just the right amount of fun and chaos, as players can step into the shoes of criminals who can undertake various heists of banks and shops.
                         The cool part about this shooter is also the fact that players can team up with their friends. A group of up to four players playing together is ideal for a fun experience, and there are tons of character customization available as well.
      Payday 3 is out, but it does not support remote play at the moment. Its reception has also been mixed, particularly on Steam.
                          Fans of sci-fi shooters shouldn't miss out on Warframe, which is currently one of the most successful games out there. The great part about it? It's free to play, and it offers a pretty solid multiplayer experience in a well-designed futuristic world.
                         Players basically design their very own character, a Warframe, based on thirty pre-existing models with unique abilities. Not just that, the game offers a perfect range of different weapons. Players can group up with three other friends and set up a party of four in total to take on adventures.
                          Friend groups that are looking to experience a Dungeons & Dragons-style game, but can't meet in person to do their weekly pen-and-paper RPG, should definitely get into Divinity: Original Sin II. The game can be either played solo or with up to 4 players in a party, and the more, the merrier.
                         Each player can design their very own Sourcerer and then fight through the immersive and extremely well-designed world and story of Rivellon, where people like the Sourcerers are hunted down for being dangerously powerful magic users.
                          While Minecraft is undoubtedly one of the best games to get into along with friends, for a slightly different survival sandbox experience, players can also opt for a more traditional-looking game: Terraria.
                         Similarly to Minecraft, Terraria allows for the creation of servers, but if an investment like that isn't an option, a regular multiplayer world allows up to eight players to play at the same time. With a classic retro game look and the same concept of survival, building, and thriving as Minecraft, this game is bound to bring entertainment for hours.
                          In between all these competitive shooter games, why not set up a farm with friends in the relaxing world of Stardew Valley? After growing tired of their dreary life, the main character (the player) of Stardew Valley moves to the countryside to take over their grandfather's old farm and bring it back to its old glory.
     Stardew Valley is an awesome game that runs in a seasonal format - here's what players should do in their first year.                     Up to four players can enter a single game, and with recent changes, the economy system has been improved for multiplayer experience as well. From farming and fishing to getting to know the inhabitants of Pelican Town, there's no game more soothing as this one.
                          For a dark, quirky, and challenging survival experience, players should give Don't Starve Together a go. Along with friends, they can take on the harsh landscape of the game, which forces players on the defensive with its odd creatures and diverse dangers.
                         It's one of the most unique-looking games, and it simply begs to be experienced among friends. For a proper, difficult survival game, this is a great one to pick up right now.
      MORE: Multiplayer Games To Play If You Like Don't Starve Together
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Game Rant has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. A 2019 racing game in an iconic franchise drops to 90% off on Steam, although the deal is only available for an extremely limited time. Activision pulls back the curtain on Season 5 Reloaded and confirms even more controversial operator skins are coming to Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone. Heron Wetland has been a topic of confusion amongst Wuthering Waves players. For those unsure, here's what the term is referring to. This guide will share some easy ways to earn RNG coins in Pet Simulator 99. You don't need a monstrous PC to see some of the best the platform has to offer. Today, we're covering the best PC games with low system requirements. 10:10 Games announces the Blue Bomber, Mega Man, will be a playable character in the upcoming action-adventure title Funko Fusion. Looking for an online co-op game to play with a few friends? Then these are the best games on PS Plus.