Samuel Harvey, 32, took money for work he didn't complete Never miss a big story in North Devon again with our daily email We have more newsletters Never miss a big story in North Devon again with our daily email We have more newsletters A rogue builder from Barnstaple has been jailed after taking approximately £38,000 from customers for building work either not started or not completed. Samuel Harvey, 32, of Greenbank Road was sentenced following a prosecution by Heart of the South West Trading Standards Service. Back on January 31 at Barnstaple Magistrates Court, Harvey pleaded guilty to to three offences under the the Fraud Act and two offences under Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations. Between June 2020 and April 2022, Harvey, who ran a landscaping and building business in North Devon, took money for work he didn't complete. The victims were located across Devon and Wales from Plymouth, Barnstaple, Bideford and Ilfracombe in Devon and Bridgend and Swansea. Many lost money with some who had works started but not completed having to pay other traders to have the work done. Read more: Devon asylum seekers 'bored' of same routine and want a job The Court heard that Harvey had a previous similar conviction from 2011 relating to an incident in Bristol where he received a suspended 20 week prison sentence. At Exeter Crown Court on Thursday, March 30 Harvey was sentenced to two years and eight months in prison. Judge Richardson said that Harvey had "left people feeling guilty and stupid when the fault does not lie with them". She added: “You left people feeling unsure and insecure as to who to trust.”  On sentencing she said she had taken into consideration his mitigation and early guilty plea. Harvey has also been banned from running or managing a business for a period of ten years. The Court also ordered a confiscation investigation. The victim surcharge was left to be calculated. Stephen Gardiner, the legal process manager for Heart of the South West Trading Standards Service said: “If you’re looking to have work done then we always advise you get a range of quotes from reputable traders either through recommendations from people you trust or through an approved trader scheme such as our own ‘Buy with Confidence’ scheme.” Read next: Dad-of-two given terminal cancer diagnosis after collapsing before squash game Exeter getting more than 500 new homes across two sites Devon's second most deprived town to undergo £30m waterfront regeneration Emergency alert on mobile phones is coming but you can opt out This Morning's Phillip Schofield won't return for weeks 