Get an unrestricted access to all the blog and those extraodinary functions that can help your business grow in a continuously changing industry. Shanghai iDA Workplace created a space to reflect the brand and purpose of Zoetis in the design of their offices in Shanghai, China. As the world’s leading animal health company, Zoetis is driven by a singular purpose: to nurture our world and humankind by advancing care for animals. The company’s leading portfolio and pipeline of medicines, vaccines, diagnostics and technologies make a difference in over 100 countries for more than 70 years. Over the past three years, Zoetis has garnered significant recognition as China’s Best Employer, striving to create a work environment that goes beyond the traditional notions of a job. Zoetis endeavors to create a conducive environment that promotes overall well-being. In collaboration with iDA Workplace, Zoetis has successfully established its new China Headquarters. This people-centric workplace reflects the company’s commitment to people, animals, and the world. The project is located in the CBD of North Bund, Shanghai, where the history and the future collide, creating an electrifying atmosphere that captivates all who venture into its midst. The entire office space offers a breathtaking 360-degree panoramic view. A transparent cat house located at centre of the very sociable work café area. Being a caregiver of animals has become an essential part of the job. Zoetis is committed to be the leader of animal care and love. The new office exemplifies the company’s unwavering dedication to its employees aligning with Zoetis’s core beliefs. It serves as a tangible manifestation of the company’s commitment to creating a supportive and fulfilling work environment. By offering a range of room sizes, the office accommodates various functions and meeting purposes. From small huddle spaces for quick discussions to larger conference rooms for formal presentations, the diverse array of rooms ensures that employees have appropriate spaces for productive interactions. The warm and bright open office creates a vibrant and comfortable workspace where employees can thrive and gain nourishment. Zoetis’s root is “zo”, in allusion to the Latin-derived zoological term “zoetic”, meaning “pertaining to life”. Design: iDA Workplace
Photography: Highlite Images Via Published projects: 22990 Registered users: 34338 Furniture manufacturer for the residential sector, hotels and palaces