By Ted Thornhill, Mailonline Travel Editor   Published:  06:44 EDT, 12 July 2023   |  Updated:  11:27 EDT, 12 July 2023      73 View  comments  On paper, Singapore Airlines' first-class 'Suites' cabin is the best in the world for an airliner. After all, Singapore Airlines was named the world's best airline for 2023 at the Skytrax World Airline Awards - the 'Oscars of Aviation' - and took the gong for 'World's Best First Class'. But does the reality feel like 'world's best'? Flight expert and YouTuber 'Nonstop Dan' secured a £6,000 ($7,750) 'Suites' seat on an A380 flight from Frankfurt to New York to find out – and filmed fascinating footage of the experience. He told MailOnline Travel that he was 'blown away' by the experience – but revealed that the food, shockingly, was 'a disappointment'. His video begins at Frankfurt departures, where Dan - who's half Swedish and half American - discovers that Suites-class passengers don't get special treatment. But once he's on board, the magic begins in earnest. Suites-class seats are on the top deck of the A380 and number just six, with Dan describing his berth as 'beyond incredible' and 'unlike anything else in this category'. Your browser does not support iframes. Flight expert and YouTuber 'Nonstop Dan' (above) secured a 'Suites' seat on an A380 flight from Frankfurt to New York The Suites seat has a chair that swivels around to face the outside Dan's video begins at Frankfurt departures, where he discovers that Suites-class passengers don't get special treatment. But once he's on board, the magic begins in earnest He admits that trying to show all the features on video proves 'overwhelming'. He documents the welcome Dom Perignon fizz (from a $300/£230 bottle); the 'as good as it gets' Bang and Olufsen headphones; a chair that swivels around to face the outside; the detachable tablet that controls the entertainment system; the plethora of ports including an HDMI charging slot; the plentiful storage that includes a full closet by the suite entrance, complete with hangers; the 'massive' tray table; and, of course, the seat that transforms into a bed. This, he says, comes with two incredibly plush pillows and a sleek cover, though he notes that the bed is 'surprisingly hard... South-East Asian style'. This still from Dan's video shows an air hostess making up the beds for him and his travelling companion, Oscar The suite has a closing door that affords passengers the 'utmost privacy and a private-jet-like feeling' Dan admits that trying to show all the features of Suites class on video proves 'overwhelming' The suite has a partition wall that can be lowered to form one gigantic double room. Dan takes advantage of this so that he can enjoy the experience with his travelling companion, Oscar. The tour of the cabin continues with Dan revealing that the suite has a closing door that affords passengers the 'utmost privacy and a private-jet-like feeling that's only rivalled by Emirates' Boeing 777 "game-changer" first-class cabin' – and a hotel-style toilet that's 'classy'. On the food-and-drink front, while Dan concludes that the drinks list is 'extraordinary', his main course of mushrooms, rice and tofu 'perfectly cooked' and the meal service 'perfectly paced', he's not so impressed with the first dish ('miscellaneous food items'), the starter of salad leaves, tomatoes and lentils ('underwhelming'), or the dessert - 'merely a fruit plate'. This still from Dan's fascinating video shows the hotel-style toilet The toilet is described by Dan, who's half Swedish and half American, as 'classy'  So what would Dan describe as the high points? He told MailOnline Travel post-flight: 'Everything. The amount of privacy, space and comfort is unparalleled, but when travelling with someone else, the highlight has to be the double bed. It doesn't get better than that. The lavatory is also pretty sweet since it's so spacious.' And the low points? He said: 'The only disappointment was the food. Catering is inconsistent on all airlines since it depends on the origin airport where the meals were made. In this case, I flew from Frankfurt, but I know for a fact the catering out of Singapore is far superior.' During the meal service Dan is not impressed with the first dish - 'miscellaneous food items' Dan describes his starter, above, as 'underwhelming'  Dan describes the service during the meal as 'perfectly paced' Dan's main course of mushrooms, rice and tofu - 'perfectly cooked' The dessert for Dan was 'merely a fruit plate' (above) Any surprises? He said: 'One of the highlights of my life had to be watching Curb Your Enthusiasm in bed and the crew surprising us with lunch in bed. I had no idea they had tables allowing us to eat in bed - what an awesome surprise!' What would he say the top three features are? Dan said: 'The highlight is undoubtedly the separate bed, but two other underrated features are the ability to swivel the seat so that it faces the windows, allowing you to work while enjoying the view outside; and the empty space in the suite when the bed has not been prepared. This is the only suite I've come across on an airplane where you have more than enough room to do yoga or stretching in the privacy of your seat.' Did it live up to expectations? Dan said: 'It exceeded expectations, and that says a lot since I review airlines for a living. Every time I fly Singapore Airlines, I'm blown away by how well the crew manage to balance professionalism with showing personality and having fun.' To Dan's delight, he was served one meal while watching TV in bed Dan's video tour of the cabin includes revealing all the gizmos The suite comes with a multitude of charging points This still is from a section of the video where Dan demonstrates the suite's tablet controller The Suites-class cabin has a single aisle and is on the top deck of the A380 The Suites class section has just six seats, affording passengers vast real estate Is there anything on the planet that compares to Suites class? Dan said: 'If I had to compare this with other first-class products, I'd describe Singapore Suites as the perfect balance between fun and luxury. Air France and Etihad have a stronger focus on luxury, while Emirates goes all out on the fun aspects of an experience like this. On Singapore Airlines, you are guaranteed exceptional service, which unfortunately most other airlines struggle to provide with the same consistency.' For more from Nonstop Dan visit www.youtube.com/@NonstopDan. For Dan's Instagram page visit - www.instagram.com/thenonstopdan. Visit his website for more tips - nonstopdan.com. Dan's Suites-class seat at the time he flew - in 2022 - would have cost upwards of £6,000, but he paid with 86,000 air miles plus 100 euros (£85/$110) in taxes. Dan revealed that at the moment Singapore Airlines is flying the Boeing 777 from Frankfurt to New York, with first class on this plane costing £3,700 one way. He added: 'The cheapest cost in points is 97,000 one-way per person, but it’s usually 143,500 points if available at all.' This image shows Dan's A380 during preparation for departure Dan's Suites-class seat at the time he flew - in 2022 - would have cost upwards of £6,000 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group