sportsCowboys By  Michael Gehlken By  Michael Gehlken 6:00 AM on Mar 13, 2023 CDT One thing known about the Cowboys’ roster-building intentions this offseason, as free agency effectively starts Monday, is their continuation toward a goal from last year. They want to mitigate the 2022 departures of wide receivers Amari Cooper and Cedrick Wilson, adding a formidable skill-position threat in line with a CeeDee Lamb or Tony Pollard. Free agency and the draft are customary avenues through which to achieve that. To review the top options in free agency is to check the calendar: So… when is the draft again? When Jakobi Meyers, JuJu Smith-Schuster, D.J. Chark and Allen Lazard are your headliners, the free agency market at wide receiver leaves room to be desired. The veteran landscape at tight end is bleaker for a Cowboys team that has demonstrated little drive to re-sign Dalton Schultz, the top player there. That scarcity should tamper expectations for the offense in the days ahead. Be the smartest Cowboys fan. Get the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Based on how the Cowboys have operated over the years, it would be on brand for them to make ripples, not waves, in free agency. NFL clubs can negotiate and reach contract agreements with other teams’ impending unrestricted free agents beginning at 11 a.m. CDT Monday. Those players will officially become free agents and can sign contracts with other teams when the new league year starts at 3 p.m. Wednesday. The Cowboys hope to sign Lamb to an extension, ideally in the next few months. The money Lamb stands to command will likely make the team less inclined to pay top dollar for a wide receiver, be it in free agency or the trade market. As of earlier this month at the combine, the team had no trade in the works. RELATED: Here’s what we learned about the Dallas Cowboys during NFL scouting combine For months, Dallas has shown interest in Odell Beckham Jr. But the fact Beckham is healthy enough to hold a workout for teams Friday in Arizona and is still unsigned suggests a hesitation in the Cowboys’ pursuit. They could have signed him at any point in recent months, as he is already a free agent. Pro Football Talk reported Saturday that Beckham seeks $20 million a year. One person familiar with Beckham’s thinking rebuffed that report Sunday, saying that no financial demands have been made. His price tag will influence the Cowboys’ interest level. Meanwhile, there is little reason for them to do much at tight end before the April 27-29 draft. Jake Ferguson, Peyton Hendershot and Sean McKeon are under contract, and this draft class is considered as well-stocked at the position as any class in recent memory. Behind Schultz, Mike Gesicki, Irv Smith Jr., Hayden Hurst, Austin Hooper, Foster Moreau, O.J. Howard and Robert Tonyan are among the veterans available at varying costs. Elsewhere on offense, the Cowboys need to bolster their interior offensive line. Left guard Connor McGovern, who also worked at center, right guard and fullback last year, is set to become an unrestricted free agent. He is expected to command enough interest elsewhere that, barring a strong push from Dallas in the hours ahead, a return is unlikely. (Editor’s note: McGovern agreed to a three-year deal with Buffalo after this story was published.) Tackle Josh Ball began practicing more at guard last year. At minimum, he will be in the mix to supply depth. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones recently hinted at the possibility of a splash in free agency. “Don’t dismiss us doing something special with the right veteran free agent,” Jones said at the combine. “Any place. I would in a New York minute if I think that it fits a lot of what I’m sitting here talking about, if it fits more than a short-term situation for us.” No one’s breath ought to be held. If something materialized on defense, it would make sense for the addition to upgrade the run defense, the thinking there that improvement here would create more opportunities for the Cowboys’ disruptive pass rush. For that reason, linebacker Bobby Wagner bears at least some monitoring. The Los Angeles Rams are expected to release him this week, and he spent multiple seasons with Cowboys defensive coordinator Dan Quinn in Seattle. Dallas has three linebackers — Leighton Vander Esch, Anthony Barr and core special teamer Luke Gifford — bound for free agency. RELATED: Cowboys missed out on Bobby Wagner last year. Could this offseason be different? Vander Esch is coming off a strong season and will command a stronger market than he did in 2022 when the Cowboys re-signed him to a one-year, $2 million deal. How exactly that market develops will gain clarity after 11 a.m. Monday. As he did last season, Barr is expected to take his time before identifying where he plays in 2023. That process could extend past the draft. What comes of safety Donovan Wilson is perhaps the most pressing question on this side of the ball. On Feb. 28, Cowboys executive vice president Stephen Jones called reuniting Wilson with Jayron Kearse and Malik Hooker “obviously a priority.” The coming days should determine if Wilson’s market drives him out of North Texas. Rams safety Taylor Rapp is among the potential contingencies. At cornerback, 2022 fifth-round pick DaRon Bland is an ascending talent. He totaled a team-high five interceptions and is the favorite to start opposite Trevon Diggs. Anthony Brown will become a free agent and probably won’t sign anywhere right away while recovering from an Achilles tear he suffered in early December. A need exists to build more depth at cornerback. The number of players acquired here could create one of the more competitive battles in training camp. Reserve cornerback Kelvin Joseph, a 2021 second-round choice whose greatest impact has come on special teams, did not respond to his defensive opportunities as desired. On the defensive line, end Dante Fowler Jr., nose tackle Johnathan Hankins and tackle Carlos Watkins are all due to reach the market. Watkins and Hankins were two of the Cowboys’ better run defenders up front. CB C.J. Goodwin: One of the NFL’s best special teamers can sign another one-year contract. DT Carlos Watkins: Took a meaningful step in his development last season against the run. WR Noah Brown: He is a better No. 4 wide receiver than the 2 or 3 he operated as in 2022. T/G Aviante Collins: Solid depth piece on the offensive line. S Donovan Wilson: The Cowboys genuinely want Wilson back. The same cannot be said for several of their other free agents. But can the two sides meet financially? K Brett Maher: If the season ended two games earlier, he’s probably re-signed to a three-year deal. TE Dalton Schultz: While the Cowboys like him, this is a deep draft, and the going cost for a top-eight tight end exceeded their comfort level long ago. G/C Connor McGovern: The Cowboys drafted and developed him. Now, other clubs figure to outbid them. LB Luke Gifford: Strong special teamer will have options on where he plays next, including Dallas. OT Jason Peters: Arguably the franchise’s most impactful free agency signing in 2022 because of his influence on rookie Tyler Smith’s development. But he turned 41 in January. Find more Cowboys coverage from The Dallas Morning News here. Michael Gehlken. Michael Gehlken joined the Cowboys beat for the Dallas Morning News in August 2019. He is entering his 15th season covering the NFL, having previously reported on the San Diego Chargers and Oakland Raiders.