ICICI Bank has announced ‘Festival Bonanza’ to offer heavy discounts and exciting deals to customers ahead of the launch of sales by e-commerce giants like Flipkart and Amazon. Customers can save up to Rs 26,000 via cashbacks on the purchase of electronic goods, along with a number of other offers and discounts. In addition, they can save even more if multiple purchases across different categories are made. Customers can enjoy exclusive deals when using ICICI Bank’s credit or debit cards, the internet banking facility, UPI payments, and cardless EMIs. The private sector lender has come out with the new Festive Bonanza to offer exciting deals and heavy discounts to customers during the upcoming sales by e-commerce players. Customers can get a range of offers using ICICI Bank credit and debit cards during the Flipkart Big Billion Days, Myntra Big Fashion Festival, Amazon Great Indian Festival, and Tata Neu The Grand Sale. The ICICI Bank Festive Bonanza comes with an extensive set of offers and discounts to meet the needs of different customers during the festive season. Customers can avail of attractive discounts and offers across various consumer products, such as electronics, mobile phones, fashion, jewellery, furniture, home appliances, and more. ICICI Bank has partnered with prominent brands like iPhone, MakeMyTrip, Tata Neu, OnePlus, HP, Microsoft, Croma, Reliance Digital, LG, Sony, Samsung, Tanishq, and Taj. The ICICI Festive Bonanza offers the following deals and discounts: 1. Electronics: Customers can get cashbacks up to Rs 26,000 across the major electronic brands like LG, Samsung, Sony, Eureka Forbes, and Whirlpool. Customers can also get a 10 per cent discount of up to Rs 6,000 and instant cashback of up to 25 per cent on Bose speakers. You can also avail of a Rs 12,000 discount on select JBL products. Further, attractive discounts can be availed at Croma, Reliance Digital, and Vijay Sales. 2. Mobile Phones: The discounts and EMI offers are available for mobile phones from Apple, OnePlus, Motorola, Oppo, Xiaomi, and Realme. The EMI is free of cost and for the latest iPhone 15, EMIs can start as low as Rs 2,497. 3. Fashion: Fashion enthusiasts can purchase apparel from leading brands like Lifestyle, Fastrack, and Myntra, among others, at a 10 per cent discount. 4. Travel: For ICICI Bank customers planning a festive holiday, big discounts can be availed at leading travel sites like MakeMyTrip, Yatra, Cleartrip, and EaseMyTrip. 5. Dining: Save big by availing of attractive deals on Zomato, Swiggy, EazyDiner, and even McDonald’s. 6. Entertainment: You can avail of offers on annual subscriptions of SonyLiv and get movie tickets at Cinepolis for a discounted price. 7. Furniture and Home Decor: Get flat 10 per cent off for your home on brands such as Pepperfry, Urban Ladder, and Duroflex. 
  Get Latest Business News, Stock Market Updates and Videos; Check your tax outgo through Income Tax Calculator and save money through our Personal Finance coverage. Check Business Breaking News Live on Zee Business Twitter and Facebook. Subscribe on YouTube.

 LATEST NEWS By accepting cookies, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.