My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Yulu on Monday announced a tie-up with food delivery app Zomato for using Yulu DeX EV for intra-city deliveries. “As part of The Climate Group's EV100 initiative, we have committed to transitioning our delivery fleet to 100% electric, and with Yulu's support, we are glad to be on the right path to achieve this target. We are excited to continue our efforts to create a greener Zomato and a better world for all," said Mohit Sardana, COO, food delivery at Zomato. A statement from Yulu, an e-scooter rental firm, said around 25,000 - 35,000 Yulu DeX will be given to delivery partners onboarded on Zomato’s platform for last-mile deliveries on custom-made rental plans. Yulu is committed to making urban transportation sustainable and the association with Zomato is a significant step towards making last-mile delivery green and efficient. "Rising fuel prices and financial challenges are significant barriers for youth who want to onboard themselves as delivery partners. Yulu DeX solves most of these challenges, and provides a mobility solution that is very easy to access for all. Yulu has flexible rental packs and allows delivery partners to earn higher earnings compared to ICE-vehicles. Along with this, the delivery partners get access to Yuma Energy’s wide network of battery swapping stations to minimise their downtime during last-mile deliveries" the statement said. Once deployed, these 25,000+ Yulu DeX have the potential of serving 3 lakh green deliveries every day by 2026. Pradeep Puranam, head, revenue & operations, Yulu said, “With Yulu’s deep understanding of the delivery ecosystem, purpose-built product DeX, robust operations and a wide network of battery swapping stations, our solutions can improve earnings of delivery partners by up to 40%". "This association with Zomato bears greater significance in Yulu’s endeavour to offer smart and affordable green mobility solutions to the delivery partners over the next few years. Over 4,000 delivery partners as of February 2023, onboarded on Zomato’s platform utilise Yulu’s EVs to make the last-mile deliveries. Till date, Yulu has enabled more than 75 million green deliveries and benefited over 50,000 delivery partners," the statement adds.
         Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.