Thanks to the International Society of Automation (ISA) and the International Electrotechnical Organization (IEC), there is a set of standards that help organizations identify and  understand security for their control systems. These standards, called ISA/IEC 62443 Target Security Levels, can be used to guide small or large security  concerns. The consequences of a cybersecurity incident targeting a control  system can be as small as material spilling on the floor or as large as a  multi-site outage taking weeks to recover.  You may wonder why organizations  shouldn’t just choose to classify all their control systems with the same target  security level? After all, it may seem easier and better to do so. But there  are many practical reasons why this is not the best approach for organizations  or the control systems they seek to protect. ISA applies target security  levels to what they refer to as a ‘zone.’ A zone includes grouped assets based  on criteria such as physical location, criticality or operational function. The  system under consideration will most likely be partitioned into multiple zones  with conduits connecting them. These conduits are the communication channels  enabling the components within each zone to transfer the necessary data or  information to components in another zone. As an example, think about  a facility that makes cake. There may be one or more raw material receiving  zones, an ingredient mixing zone, a baking zone, a packaging zone, etc.  Conduits may connect raw materials and mixing zones, or mixing and baking  zones, but most likely not connect mixing to packaging zones. The consequences  of successful attacks for each zone must be evaluated. To start this evaluation,  ask yourself: What are the operational, financial and health safety and  environment (HSE) impacts? Categorizing the consequences in these impact areas as  high, medium or low is crucial in determining the target security level.  ISA/IEC 62443-3-2 provides tables with examples to help with categorization. Next, complete the mapping  exercise to align the high, medium and low-risk levels with the 62443 security levels.  At the end of the exercise, you will have different determinations of security levels  based on risk tolerance, industry vertical and physical location. At the end of  this process, each zone should have a target security level designation of  SL-1, SL-2, SL-3 or SL-4. After you’ve designated  each zone with the proper target security level, picking a level and  standardizing it across the plant may be tempting but it’s not advised. For example, if the  organization has a zone that controls a dangerous process or handles hazardous  materials and is designated as SL-3, why not make the entire site conform to  SL-3? The technical and security requirements increase with each step up in security  level. ISA/IEC 62443-3-3 lists the foundational requirements with associated  enhancements expected for the higher security levels. An example of these  enhancements involves starting with an operator account that all shift  personnel use and changing that account to individual named accounts with  strict role-based access controls for all functions within an HMI. Another  example is implementing mechanisms to prevent malware from executing on an HMI  server and applying operating system and application hardening practices to  protect that same HMI server from advanced attack techniques. In both examples, the  effort and resources necessary to meet the more secure requirements are much  higher than the baseline requirement. When a zone with existing equipment has a  specific security level, are the device and software even capable of meeting  the requirements? Does the organization have capable staff and time to  implement the more stringent security requirements? Do the vendors, integrators  and other third parties the organization works with have the technologies and  capabilities to deliver this functionality within their projects? Meeting these  higher standards probably isn’t necessary across the entire facility. On the  other hand, only meeting the SL-1 requirements may not be enough for specific  zones. As many have experienced  from the IT groups within their organizations, onerous security requirements  and measures often lead to personnel who may ignore them, rendering them  ineffective. Trying to take on too many security controls may lead to poor  implementation, so it’s better to implement a smaller subset of sensible  security requirements that may find more success and less resistance. Troubleshooting and change  management may also take longer due to the additional checks, approvals and  access controls that may restrict who can work with specific devices or  systems. During a platform upgrade or expansion, a higher security level may  result in increased project costs, implementation time and a limited choice of vendors  or equipment to meet the listed security requirements. Organizations certainly  need to enhance the security posture of their control systems and the ISA/IEC  62443 target security levels provide a methodology for doing so in a way that  right-sizes the security measures based upon the risks and consequences present  within a facility. For organizations starting their cybersecurity journey  within the controls environment, simply getting all zones to SL-1 may be a  monumental undertaking. Identifying the proper security  levels early on for new and planned projects can help avoid future costs due to  applying measures post-implementation. Everyone can agree that budgets and  resources are limited, that’s why it makes sense to get the best return on  investment by applying the right level of security. Alan Raveling is an OT  Architect at Interstates, a certified member of the Control  System Integrators Association (CSIA). For more information about Interstates, visit its profile on the Industrial Automation Exchange. Leaders relevant to this article: