Please view the main text area of the page by skipping the main menu. The page may not be displayed properly if the JavaScript is deactivated on your browser. 
Japan's National Daily Since 1922 June 26, 2023 (Mainichi Japan) Japanese version 
    IMABARI, Ehime -- A festival to pray for a bountiful harvest of rice was recently held at a shrine here, the first such performance in four years of "hitori zumo" (solo sumo) in which a sumo wrestler battles an imaginary rice spirit, drawing applause for its realistic performance.
 
    The "otaue-sai" (rice planting festival) at Oyamazumi Shrine located on Omishima Island in the city of Imabari, Ehime Prefecture, had been scaled back for the past three years due to the coronavirus pandemic.
 
    The solo sumo ritual, an intangible folk cultural property of Ehime Prefecture, was recorded in a 1707 document, which reads that a sumo wrestler fought the spirit on May 5 and Sept. 9 (both in the lunar calendar).
 
    The Shinto ritual was suspended in 1984 due to a lack of wrestlers, but resumed in 1999 when the new Setouchi-Shimanami Kaido road connected Omishima Island with Japan's main island Honshu and the main island of Shikoku.
 
    This year, Sadayuki Kan, 48, and Yoshitaka Tawa, 50, both former Omishima town government officials before the town merged with the city of Imabari, came forward to "preserve the tradition." Kan became a wrestler called Ichirikizan and Tawa took on the role of a sumo referee. Kan put on an impressive show, ensuring that his performance didn't look complacent.
 
    The victory of the rice spirit over a wrestler in the best-of-three bouts promises a bountiful harvest in the spring, and people give thanks for the harvest in the fall.
 
    The two performers had been working on their physical fitness and vocal training during the pandemic. On June 22, after energic bouts full of pushing and lifting, the invisible rice spirit won 2-1.
 
    (Japanese original by Nobuto Matsukura, Imabari Local Bureau)
 
More Articles
  Copyright THE MAINICHI NEWSPAPERS. All rights reserved.