LOUISVILLE — Kiosk Information Systems Inc. has promoted Tu Du to chief operating officer. Du, who joined the company four years ago, “led all aspects of the company’s site operations including manufacturing, hardware engineering and supply chain,” KIS said in a news release.  Kiosk Information Systems designs and manufactures standard and custom self-service point-of-sale kiosks for retailers and Fortune 500 clients.  SPONSORED CONTENT Take a closer look at UnitedHealthcare's Surest health plan, a more modern approach to health benefits that improves access to care with the goal of lowering health care expenses. “We are incredibly fortunate to have Tu in this executive leadership role,” KIS CEO Kim Kenney said in the release. “His background and expertise are well-respected among employees, supply chain partners, and customers. Tu is a proven leader with the ability to orchestrate complex team activities with an innate talent for driving continuous improvement consistent with ISO standards.” 


 

  
LOUISVILLE — Kiosk Information Systems Inc. has promoted Tu Du to chief operating officer.
Du, who joined the company four years ago, “led all aspects of the company’s site operations including manufacturing, hardware engineering and supply chain,” KIS said in a news release. 
Kiosk Information Systems designs and manufactures standard and custom self-service point-of-sale kiosks for retailers and Fortune 500 clients. 
“We are incredibly fortunate to have Tu in this executive leadership role,” KIS CEO Kim Kenney said in the release. “His background and expertise are well-respected among employees, supply chain partners, and customers. Tu is a proven leader with the ability to…

 LOUISVILLE — Kiosk Information Systems Inc. has promoted Tu Du to chief operating officer. Du, who joined the company four years ago, “led all aspects of the company’s site operations including manufacturing, hardware engineering and supply chain,” KIS said in a news release.  Kiosk Information Systems designs and manufactures standard and custom self-service point-of-sale kiosks for retailers and Fortune 500 clients.  “We are incredibly fortunate to have Tu in this executive leadership role,” KIS CEO Kim Kenney said in the release. “His background and expertise are well-respected among employees, supply chain partners, and customers. Tu is a proven leader with the ability to…
 
THIS ARTICLE IS FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY
 
Continue reading for less than $3 per week!
 
Get a month of award-winning local business news, trends and insights
 Access award-winning content today! 
Login
 Processing your subscription now!  If you canceled your payment, click here to close this window. If you processed a payment and this page does not reload in 10 seconds, please reach out to Bruce Dennis at 303-630-1953 for additional assistance. 
The Business Journal of the
Boulder Valley and Northern Colorado
 © BizWest Media, LLC. All rights reserved.