By Legal Futures Associate Miller Insurance Given the current climate, it’s understandable that law firms might look for ways to innovate and maintain their financial security. One of these avenues is the provision of unbundled legal services. We explain the risks, mitigation steps a firm can take, and what to consider below. Unbundled or “pay as you go” legal services are when a firm and its client agree that some tasks traditionally undertaken by the solicitor, such as drafting letters or attending court hearings, will be completed by the client themselves. The offering of unbundled services has been under discussion for a number of years and in 2021, the SRA announced a pilot within family law. In September 2022, a report of initial findings was made by the SRA and a recording of their webinar discussing the potential issues, benefits and drawbacks of working in this way is available here. A report with more detailed findings is expected to be released soon. An important risk to consider is that firms could inadvertently assume the responsibilities and liabilities of a full retainer whilst generating a reduced fee. This could arise in various ways including: The risk landscape around this topic is likely to evolve, especially if insurance claims increase because of more frequent use of unbundled services. A “one size fits all” agreement about what work can and can’t be unbundled may be impractical given the different capabilities and requirements that clients could have. Consequently, firms should establish what they are proposing and how it will work within their firm, including an explanation of the following. A firm’s records and retainer will be key documents if a claim arises so make sure that the information supplied by the client is carefully recorded and that the retainer clearly lists tasks that the firm will carry out, as well as those falling outside of the scope of service. It’s also important to review the retainer on a regular basis and issue a new one where appropriate, ensuring that any changes to your instructions are also fully reflected on your file. Even with the benefit of a clear retainer, there is case law that highlights risks associated when acting in a limited capacity or with a limited retainer. More details can be found on The Law Society website: Solicitors have both a duty of care and regulatory obligations irrespective of limitations within their retainers. These will need to be carefully managed if a firm chooses to pursue unbundled services. If you would like to discuss any points covered in this article, or anything connected to your PII policy, please get in touch.   Associate News is provided by Legal Futures Associates.


Find out about becoming an Associate
 Tags: 
Get our news roundup every Friday. 
Legal Futures Publishing Limited, Registered in England No. 7135808.
Registered office: Handel House, 95 High Street, Edgware, Middlesex, HA8 7DB 
© Legal Futures - 2024 
Website by  Pixel Pixel 

Legal marketing by legmark