Pune, India, Jan.  09, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Precast Concrete Market research report includes in-depth market research studies that provide the best solutions for strategy development and implementation depending on the client's needs to extract tangible results. It helps businesses obtain granular level clarity on current business trends and expected future developments.  The global precast concrete market size is expected to showcase significant growth by reaching USD 159.85 Billion by 2028. Fortune Business Insights, in its report titled "Precast Concrete Market, 2021-2028.", mentions that the market stood at USD 114.78 Billion in 2020 and is likely to exhibit a CAGR of 4.4% between 2021 and 2028. The rapid-paced urbanization, coupled with the rising population rate, is anticipated to favor the adoption of the product globally. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), around 901.99 million people reside in mainland areas in China, which accounts for over 63.89% of the total population in the country. Get a Sample Copy of the Research Report: https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/enquiry/request-sample-pdf/precast-concrete-market-103301 List of the Companies Operating in the Market: Market Segmentation Based on the product type, the precast concrete market is divided into building components, transportation, water & waste handling, and others. On the basis of end-use, the market is bifurcated into residential and non-residential. Based on end-use, the residential segment held a global precast concrete market share of about 37.7% in 2020. The segment is expected to experience exponential growth backed by the increasing investment in the development of real estate that is likely to propel the demand for the product worldwide. Finally, on the basis of region, the market is segregated into North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, and the Middle East and Africa. What does the Report Include? The precast concrete market report includes qualitative and quantitative analysis of several factors such as the key drivers and restraints that will impact growth. Additionally, the report provides insights into the regional analysis that covers different regions, which are contributing to the growth of the market. It includes the competitive landscape that involves the leading companies and the adoption of strategies by them to announce partnerships, introduce new products, and collaboration that will further contribute to the growth of the precast concrete market Statistics between 2021 and 2028. Moreover, the research analyst has adopted several research methodologies such as SWOT and PESTEL analysis to extract information about the current trends and industry developments that will drive the market growth during the forecast period. Inquire Before Buying This Research Report: https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/enquiry/queries/precast-concrete-market-103301 Report Scope & Segmentation DRIVING FACTORS Rapid-Paced Urbanization to Aid Growth The evolving standard of living globally has led to the growing demand for quality-oriented and people-centered facilities. The rapid-paced urbanization has led to significant development of both residential and non-residential establishments. Besides, a large number of masses are migrating from rural areas to urban places for better job opportunities. The fast-paced growth of smart cities equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructures such as airports, malls, sports complexes, and commercial spaces is anticipated to boost the demand for the product. Besides, the rising population rate across the globe is expected to contribute to the global precast concrete market growth during the forecast period. REGIONAL INSIGHTS Asia-Pacific – The region stood at USD 46.43 billion in 2020. The precast concrete market forecast is anticipated to experience profound growth due to a large population in countries such as India and China. This is further leading to the massive development of residential sectors that is propelling the adoption of advanced precast concrete products in the region. Europe – The market in the region is anticipated to showcase considerable growth during the foreseeable future. This is ascribable to factors such as the high demand for innovative precast concrete products for infrastructural and non-residential sector development activities between 2021 and 2028. Browse Detailed Summary of Research Report with TOC: https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/precast-concrete-market-103301 COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE Partnerships between Key Players to Intensify Industry Competition The global precast concrete market challenges is consolidated by the presence of major companies that are striving to maintain their position and gain a competitive edge over their rivals. They are doing so by focusing on partnering with other companies to expand their product portfolio. Additionally, other key players are adopting organic and inorganic strategies to intensify market competition and maintain strongholds during the forecast period. Detailed Table of Content: Explore Detailed Table of Content...! Reasons to Purchase this Report: Comprehensive analysis of the market growth drivers, obstacles, opportunities, and other related challenges. Tracks the developments, such as new product launches, agreements, mergers and acquisitions, geographical expansions, and joint ventures. Speak to Our Expert: https://www.fortunebusinessinsights.com/enquiry/speak-to-analyst/precast-concrete-market-103301 About Us: Fortune Business Insights™ delivers accurate data and innovative corporate analysis, helping organizations of all sizes make appropriate decisions. We tailor novel solutions for our clients, assisting them to address various challenges distinct to their businesses. Our aim is to empower them with holistic market intelligence, providing a granular overview of the market they are operating in. Address: Fortune Business Insights Pvt. Ltd.9th Floor, Icon Tower, Baner – Mahalunge Road, Baner, Pune-411045, Maharashtra, India. Phone: US: +1 424 253 0390 UK: +44 2071 939123 APAC: +91 744 740 1245 Email: sales@fortunebusinessinsights.com LinkedIn Facebook Twitter  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.