Latest Banking jobs  
	UPSC APFC Recruitment 2023 has been released on the official website. UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment has been announced for 159 vacancies. In the given article, aspirants can check complete details.  
 Table of Contents Union Public Service Commission has released the UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023 on its official website i.e. www.upsconline.nic.in on 25 February 2023. There is a total of 159 vacancies for the post of Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner in the Employee’s Provident Fund Organization. Candidates can apply online for the APFC Recruitment till 17 March 2023. Here candidates can check the complete details related to UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023. UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment is out for all eligible candidates on the official website, www.upsconline.nic.in. Candidates will be selected after qualifying for the written test and Interview. In this article, we have covered all the relevant details related to UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023 such as education qualification, age limit, important dates, etc. Here, we have also provided the direct link to download the Notification PDF for UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment. UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023 Notification PDF UPSC EPFO APFC Notification 2023 Short Notice Here we have provided the complete overview of UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023 in the given below table. The important dates related to the exam must be known to all as they are mentioned in the official notification. But, now there is no need to visit the official website for  UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment dates as you can check all the important dates from the table given below. Union Public Service Commission has invited eligible applicants for the post of Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner. The online application window has been activated on 25 February 2023 and will continue till 17 March 2023. It is highly recommended that the candidates make an application at the earliest possible, as the center allocation is done based on First Cum Basis. Aspirants can apply for the UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment form the link given below. UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment: Apply Online Link  As per the UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023, there are a total of 159 vaccines for the post of Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner. UPSC EPFO APFC Notification has information on the Eligibility Criteria that include educational qualification, age limit, and nationality. Candidates should ensure they meet the Eligibility Criteria in order to apply for the UPSC EPFO APFC Exam 2023. The Cut Off Date for determining Eligibility is the closing date of submission of the application form. The details on eligibility are given below. Desirable: Diploma in Company Law/Labour Laws/Public Administration. UPSC EPFO APFC Eligibility Criteria 2023 The category-wise application fees for UPSC EPFO Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner Recruitment 2023 are mentioned in the given table. UPSC EPFO Exam Kit 2023 The syllabus and exam pattern are essential in order to crack the exam. The candidates who wish to apply for the UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment must be clear about the Syllabus And Exam Pattern for examination. The syllabus and exam pattern for the UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment as per the official notification is given below:  The notification for the exam has all the details related to the syllabus. The candidates preparing for UPSC EPFO Exam must be well aware of the UPSC EPFO APFC Syllabus. UPSC EPFO APFC Syllabus 2023 The net salary of a selected candidate as per the UPSC APFC Recruitment is Rs. 85,508.  The pay scale for APFC is Level 10 in the Pay Matrix as per the 7th CPC. The candidates are recruited at a basic salary of Rs. 47,600. Along with that, they are also eligible for a number of allowances. The detailed salary structure for the recruitment is given below. UPSC EPFO APFC Salary 2023 The official cut-off for the exam that was conducted in 2015 must be known to all the candidates. The cut-off is useful to prepare for the examination. The category-wise cut-off is given below.   The last date to apply for UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment 2023 is 17 March 2023. There are a total of 159 vacancies. The exam date has not been released for UPSC EPFO APFC recruitment. The age limit for UPSC EPFO APFC Recruitment is 35 Years.  
		Leave a comment		 Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name  Email   

 