BBC director general Tim Davie has been accused of disrespecting licence fee payers after he said it was 'truly amazing' the broadcaster is 'pulling off' the charge The boss of the BBC has been accused of disrespecting licence fee payers after he said it was "truly amazing" it is "pulling off" the charge. Tim Davie, the director general, told a gathering of staff it was “glorious” the broadcaster had “better budgets” than its commercial rivals. "It's truly amazing what we're pulling off by the way," he told the meeting of BBC workers in Southampton. "That most households are pretty happy paying a licence being a forced payment. It's amazing what we're pulling off." Angry campaigners last night accused Mr Davie of being “flippant” about the cost to hard up households of the £159 annual charge. In 2020 the BBC stopped providing free TV licences for all over-75s, with only those on Pension Credit now eligible. Dennis Reed of campaign group Silver Voices said: “He is revelling in the fact the BBC is getting away with something. “We are talking about poorer households in a cost of living crisis having to fork out £159 a year, which is no small amount when you are struggling on a state pension. “One of our members who is over 75 said they had received 21 different letters over a two year period because he had not been able to afford his licence fee. I don’t think that is a laughing matter. “Those letters are going out at the same time he is having a giggle with his staff about getting away with it, that is not on.” Mr Reed suggested the BBC should look at varying the cost of the licence according to people’s income. “The licence fee is supported by a lot of people, but it is a regressive tax that impacts most on poorer households,” he said. “I think Mr Davie would be better served in looking at how the licence fee, if it continues, could be made fairer rather than making flippant comments.” Mr Davie made the remarks at a staff meeting on Tuesday. According to a recording, leaked to the Telegraph, he told workers: "We've got to be careful at the BBC in terms of our message to the outside world... people think we're the cat with the cream at the moment and I know it doesn't feel like that internally and I really am very sensitive about saying that." Insisting both ITV and Sky are "in crisis", Mr Davie said: "Our budgets are slightly better than some of the commercial operators and the lovely thing is we can play long term as well, we don't need to make a profit on everything which is glorious." A BBC spokesman said: “Tim Davie has been speaking to teams across the BBC about the organisation’s strategy, alongside taking questions from staff. It’s not unusual for these topics – among many others – to be raised in internal discussions. “In talking with BBC teams, Tim regularly discusses the privilege of having the licence fee; the continued need to deliver outstanding content and distinctive journalism; the challenging circumstances facing the media industry, including the BBC; and, the fact that the BBC can take creative risks that are harder for others to do. “The commercial media sector generally pays staff more than the BBC does, however many people work at the BBC because they believe in public service and have access to great opportunities.”  * Follow Mirror Politics on Snapchat, Tiktok, Twitter and Facebook.  Get UK politics insight with our free daily email briefing straight to your inbox