USA TODAY provides bettors with information about every step of the online sports gambling process - from sign-up straight through to how to bet on everything from UFC to the NBA to the Super Bowl. We take deep dives into all legal online sportsbooks and offer unbiased reviews to help both new bettors and seasoned pros better understand the options available to them. The best sports betting apps are legal in more than 20 states with more on the way. Sometimes all the information and advertising coming at you can be overwhelming. We're here to help. We pour through all the options and rank the best choices. We look in-depth at betting markets, compare the various sportsbook promo codes and ongoing promotions, test customer service and make sure payments are swift and dependable. Here's where online sports gambling is legal: Offers and information can vary by state, too. So, we break down the top New York sports betting apps for residents of the Empire State. Are you in the Midwest? We've got you covered with rankings of Ohio sports betting apps and Ohio sportsbook promos.  The next state to launch is North Carolina in March 2024, and we have reviewed all the best North Carolina sports betting apps for new bettors to enjoy there. In the Windy City? Check out our reviews of Illinois betting apps and load up on as many Illinois sportsbook promos as you like. From Maryland betting apps to PA sportsbook promos, we've got you covered no matter where you go. Our expert reviews break down top sports gambling options and offers, and you can see the list on this page for the top deals where you live. Some of the most popular deals: 
Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators and sports betting partners for audience referrals. The USA TODAY Network newsroom and editorial staff maintains direction on this content, which is created by partner staff. Sports betting operators have no influence over our news coverage. See applicable operator site for its terms and conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER. Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside.