In a report released today, Serge Belanger from Needham reiterated a Buy rating on Trevi Therapeutics (TRVI – Research Report), with a price target of $8.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $1.81. Belanger covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Esperion, Evolus, and Cytokinetics. According to TipRanks, Belanger has an average return of -1.0% and a 39.60% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Trevi Therapeutics with a $7.33 average price target, which is a 304.97% upside from current levels. In a report released today, JonesTrading also reiterated a Buy rating on the stock with a $7.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $4.68  and a one-year low of $1.43. Currently, Trevi Therapeutics has an average volume of 111.1K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 17 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is positive on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders buying their shares of TRVI in relation to earlier this year. Earlier this month, Simon Farrell, the CCO of TRVI bought 18,750.00 shares for a total of $9,562.50. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. is a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, which engages in the development and commercialization of treatment for neurologically mediated conditions. It focuses on the formulation of nalbuphine ER, which use to treat chronic pruritus, chronic cough in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson’s disease. The company was founded by Thomas R. Sciascia and Jennifer L. Good on March 17, 2011 and is headquartered in New Haven, CT.  Read More on TRVI: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks