The Home of the Security Bloggers Network Home » Security Bloggers Network » What is Biometric Encryption? Modern authentication has involved the use of biometric data for years. However, maintaining privacy without sacrificing security has remained a challenge. What is biometric encryption? Biometric encryption uses biometric data to encrypt and decrypt security keys to maintain user privacy and security. Biometric encryption is the use of a biometric template combined with a key for use as a method of authentication. This approach relies on the uniqueness of biometrics to ensure that hackers cannot reverse-engineer a password or key. The process of biometric encryption includes: In this process, biometrics can remain on private, local machines (like a mobile device) without disclosing unwanted private information. The benefits of biometric encryption invoke the strengths of both strong encryption and biometric authentication. Security experts planned the creation of this encryption process to help minimize attack surfaces involved in authentication, namely the storage of biometric information or the use of passwords. Some of these benefits include: Private biometrics, or encrypted biometrics, uses encryption algorithms to obfuscate biometric information while rendering it searchable. Algorithms using machine-learning-driven transformations involving encrypted feature vectors render the biometric data entirely unintelligible for humans while still useful as an authentication and identity verification tool. Biometric encryption addresses two challenges with biometrics more broadly: The suggested solution is to encrypt biometric data so that it cannot be publicly revealed to organizations managing authentication databases. However, the challenges come when you consider the biggest application of biometrics–identification. Private biometric methods ensure that the biometric template remains helpful in that capacity by utilizing an irreversible encryption process to render the template data much more minor and utterly unrelated to the original data. This encrypted information, however, is readily searchable in an authentication database and just as useful for authentication. The benefit of this practice is that it allows users to continue to use biometric authentication without disclosing their private biological data–a key concern for privacy and human rights activities that worry about growing databases of personal biological data. Biometrics are a staple of modern authentication, but depending on their implementation, they aren’t perfect. They can be spoofed or stolen, risking the security of user accounts and enterprise systems. With 1Kosmos, you can deploy biometrics bound to the user at the time of identity verification. Our biometrics ensure the user is the same user that initially enrolled their account. It can be no other. There is no possibility of compromise – can’t be stolen or spoofed. With 1Kosmos, you can leverage biometrics and strong, decentralized authentication using the following features: If you’re ready to learn about BlockID and how it can help you remain compliant and secure, learn more about what it takes to Go Beyond Passwordless Solutions. Make sure you sign up for the 1Kosmos email newsletter for updates on products and events. The post What is Biometric Encryption? appeared first on 1Kosmos. *** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from Identity &amp; Authentication Blog authored by Robert MacDonald. Read the original post at: https://www.1kosmos.com/biometric-authentication/biometric-encryption/    Application Security Check Up





Step 1 of 8


12%


Do you develop your own software in your organization?(Required)


Yes



No



Not sure








What portion of your cyber risk is Application Security (AppSec)? (Select one)(Required)


We over-focus on AppSec



We focus on AppSec to match the risk



We under-focus on AppSec



 




What are the biggest challenges you face implementing a robust AppSec strategy? (Select all that apply)


Lack of budget



Insufficient skilled personnel



Complexity of integrating security into the development lifecycle



Resistance from development teams



Keeping up with evolving security threats



Lack of executive buy-in



Other (please specify)



Other



 




Which DevSecOps practices are widely used for actively developed projects (not legacy) (Select all that apply):(Required)

Automated unit and functional tests for quality run in the pipeline with merge blocking


Automated application security testing (AST) in development and (SAST/IAST) runs in the pipeline


Automated AST tools to find vulnerabilities in the code you import (SCA) run in the pipeline


Merge blocking at current policy level for AST checks


Secrets management so no secrets stored in source code repositories



 




How do you assess and mitigate risk of For NON actively developed products (legacy) (Select all that apply):

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




How do you resolve the security issues found? (Select all that apply):(Required)

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




Which best describes security training for your developers? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Monthly


Quarterly


Annually


As part of onboarding


Just-in-time via integration with AST tools when a vulnerability is found


No formal training provided



 




How do you determine your level of investment in AppSec? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Perceived risk and threat landscape


Industry benchmarks and standards


Historical spending patterns / budget constraints


Recommendations from third-parties


We do not have a formal process

  









Δ



  Step 1 of 8
 Δ