If you're a resident of Steel City, then the wide service area and fast internet speeds offered by Verizon Fios make it CNET's pick for the best internet provider in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For the small percentage of Pittsburgh residents who can't get Verizon Fios offers, Xfinity service and T-Mobile Home Internet are solid backup options, but they have drawbacks like monthly price increases and slower speeds.  CNET considers high-speed internet, pricing, customer service and overall value when recommending the best internet service in Pittsburgh across various categories. Our evaluation includes spot-checking local addresses for service availability. We also do a close read of providers' terms and conditions and, when needed, will call ISPs to verify the details. Our process has some limitations. Pricing and speed data are variable: Certain addresses may qualify for different service tiers, and monthly costs may vary, even within a city. The best way to identify your options is to plug your address into a provider's website.  Note that the prices, speed and other information listed above and in the provider cards below may differ from what we found in our research. The cards display the full range of a provider's pricing and speeds across the US, according to our database of plan information provided directly by ISPs. At the same time, the text is specific to what's available in Pittsburgh. The prices referenced within this article's text come from our research and include applicable discounts for setting up automatic payments each month -- a standard industry offering. Other discounts and promotions might also be available for things like committing to a contract or bundling with a cellphone plan.  To learn more about how we review internet providers, visit our full methodology page. There are three main options when it comes to internet in Pittsburgh: Verizon Fios, Xfinity or T-Mobile Home Internet. The only other ISPs available in the city are Verizon 5G Home Internet (not very widely available) and satellite providers (not very good).   Source: CNET analysis of provider data There aren’t a lot of other options for internet in Pittsburgh aside from the three providers highlighted above. Here are all the other ISPs that operate in the city: Pittsburgh has five internet plans starting at $50 or less, which is on par with nearby Cleveland, Columbus and Philadelphia. Xfinity’s $20 per month plan is one of the cheapest you’ll find anywhere in the country, but it’s only temporary -- the price jumps to $67 after a year. T-Mobile's and Verizon’s introductory plans aren’t quite as affordable at $50 a month, but the price is locked in with both for at least two years.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data Four gig-speed plans are available in Pittsburgh, which is comparable to other cities of its size. According to Ookla speed test data, Pittsburgh ranks 73rd out of the 100 most populated cities in the US in terms of average internet speed. Residents receive 215Mbps download and 52Mbps upload speeds on average, compared with 248/34Mbps for the country as a whole. Verizon Fios is the fastest provider in the city, with average download speeds of 234Mbps.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data No matter where you live in Pittsburgh, you should have access to a few good internet providers. Verizon Fios is the best of the bunch. It gives you symmetrical upload and download speeds, doesn’t charge extra for equipment, and you won’t have to worry about your price increasing after one year. Xfinity provides fast download speeds, but upload speeds are extremely low, and the price increases dramatically after one to three years on all plans. T-Mobile is an affordable backup option, but homes with more than a few people might need more bandwidth.  Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike with the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it’s impractical to personally test every ISP in a given city. What’s our approach? We start by researching the pricing, availability and speed information, drawing on our own historical ISP data, the provider sites and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov. It doesn’t end there. We go to the FCC’s website to check our data and ensure we’re considering every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. To evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service, we look at sources including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of the time of publication.  Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:  While the answers to those questions are often layered and complex, the providers that come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend.  To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page. 
      What is the best internet service provider in Pittsburgh? 
     Verizon Fios is the best internet provider in Pittsburgh. It gets you symmetrical speeds up to 940Mbps and unlimited data, and equipment is included in the price. Xfinity is available almost everywhere in the city, but its low upload speeds and price increases make it less appealing. T-Mobile Home Internet is another good backup, with download speeds up to 245Mbps and no data caps.  
      Is fiber internet available in Pittsburgh?
     Yes, fiber internet is available in Pittsburgh. Verizon Fios offers three fiber internet plans in the city with speeds up to 940/880Mbps and unlimited data. 
      Who is the cheapest internet provider in Pittsburgh? 
     Xfinity is the cheapest internet provider in Pittsburgh, with starting prices of $20 per month for 150/100Mbps speeds. That said, the price for that plan increases to $67 per month after one year. Verizon Fios and T-Mobile both offer starting monthly prices of $50, but with additional discounts for eligible mobile customers. 
      Which internet provider in Pittsburgh offers the fastest plan? 
     Xfinity offers the fastest plans in Pittsburgh. It has three gig-speed plans in the city: 1,000/100Mbps for $75 ($109 after two years), 1,200/200Mbps for $80 ($119 after two years) and 2,000/200Mbps for $120. Verizon Fios has faster upload speeds, but its fastest plan (featuring 940/880Mbps) doesn’t match the download speeds of Xfinity’s top selections. 