The Additions of these Executives will expedite the launch of TerraZero's Metaverse products and services VANCOUVER, BC, March 9, 2023 /CNW/ - TerraZero Technologies Inc. ("TerraZero" or the "Company") has announced the appointment of Chuck Toussieng as Chief Information Officer, and the promotion of Brandon F. Johnson to Chief Operating Officer, and Ryan Kieffer to Chief Operating Officer, to serve as Co-Chief Operating Officers in furtherance of expanding TerraZero's vision for the future of the Metaverse, virtual technologies, Web3 and the Internet at large. 



 Chuck Toussieng brings over thirty years of full-cycle software development experience to TerraZero, as he takes on the task of scaling TerraZero future products and services. Chuck has executed solutions for everything from video games to satellite controllers, blockchain technologies, and endeavors in TV and film. Chuck's focus at TerraZero will be the development, optimization and delivery of the TerraZero ecosystem. Over the past year Brandon F. Johnson and Ryan Kieffer have spearheaded the company's vision and business development efforts, onboarding clients with market caps in the 100s of billions into Metaversal and other virtual environments. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Kieffer have also assembled to build, develop, and deliver products such as the intraverse. In their new roles Mr. Johnson and Mr. Kieffer will have increased official responsibilities, including the management of day-to-day operations across all company divisions, and the further development of the TerraZero ecosystem, covering everything from private and public Metaverse solutions to AR, XR, AI, payment products, and more. Dan Reitzik, TerraZero CEO commented, "The addition of Mr. Toussieng is key to scaling our already market leading metaverse products and services. The excitement around the metaverse seen over the past two years, has now culminated in the development and deployment of new technologies that not only bridge the real world with the virtual world, but at the same time provide experiences that bring brands and their customers together in an interactive way, unseen until now. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Kieffer will continue to work with the Company's clients and partners, with the additional oversight to ensure that the TerraZero metaverse ecosystem is continuously meeting the expectations of our clients." To learn more about TerraZero's products, services, and in-house studio, go online to terrazero.com or reach out directly at hello@terrazero.com. TerraZero Technologies Inc. ("TerraZero") is a vertically integrated Metaverse development group and leading web3 technology company specializing in helping brands create immersive experiences. The Company's Metaverse-agnostic vision is to develop and implement products and services with scalable commercial applications to flourish engagement across gamified experiences where enterprise- level businesses, Metaverse platforms, and web3 creators can seamlessly bridge and actionably grow their virtual world and the physical world endeavors together as one. TerraZero owns digital real estate for brands to establish presence in existing virtual worlds and can also offer brands their own private worlds to provide offices and services to those interested in the Metaverse. Furthermore, TerraZero acquires, designs, builds, and operates virtual assets and solutions to monetize the Metaverse ecosystem. The Company's businesses are segmented into five (5) divisions which include: (1) Immersive experience creation in existing or private virtual worlds; (2) advertising; (3) data analytics; (4) events and marketing; and (5) infrastructure. TerraZero aims to support the community, foster innovation, and drive adoption. For more information, please visit www.terrazero.com or contact hello@terrazero.com.  This news release includes certain statements and information that may constitute forward-looking information or statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance and reflect the expectations or beliefs of management of the Company regarding future events. Generally, forward-looking statements and information can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "intends," "expects," or "anticipates," or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events, or results "may," "could," "should," "would," or will "potentially" or "likely" occur. This information and these statements, referred to herein as "forward–looking statements," are not historical facts and are made as of the date of this news release, which includes without limitation, statements regarding discussions of future plans, estimates, and forecasts and statements as to management's expectations and intentions with respect to, among other things: the Company's intention to develop and drive traffic to its assets and locations within the Metaverse; developing products including its Intraverse product and the expected outcomes of such product and services; that establishing an early presence within the Metaverse will provide the Company with new users, branding, and marketing opportunities; events, courses of action, and the potential of the Company's technology and operations, among others, are all forward-looking information. Events or circumstances may cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, as a result of numerous known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, including but not limited to, market and other conditions, business, economic, and capital market conditions; the ability to manage operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company's financial condition; the ability to remain competitive as other better financed competitors develop and release competitive products; regulatory uncertainties; access to personnel, employees, and consultants; market conditions and the demand and pricing for products and services; the demand and pricing of cryptocurrencies and NFTs (including digital assets); security threats, including a loss/theft of TerraZero's NFTs, cryptocurrencies, and other assets; TerraZero's relationships with its customers and business partners; TerraZero's ability to successfully define, design, and release new products in a timely manner that meet customers' needs; the ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel; competition in the industry; the impact of technology changes on the products and industry; failure to develop new and innovative products; the ability to successfully maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights and defend third-party claims of infringement of their intellectual property rights; the impact of intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect the business; the ability to manage working capital; and the dependence on key personnel. As a result, TerraZero may not actually achieve its plans, projections, or expectations. In addition, such statements and information are based on numerous assumptions regarding present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future, including the demand for its products, the ability to develop software successfully, that there will be no regulation or law that will prevent the Company from operating its business, anticipated costs, the ability to secure sufficient capital to complete its business plans, the ability to achieve goals, and the price of cryptocurrencies and NFTs (including digital assets). Given these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include failure to obtain regulatory approval, the continued availability of capital and financing, technology failures, failure to obtain any permits required to operate the business, the impact of technology changes on the industry, the impact of COVID-19 or other viruses and diseases on the Company's ability to operate and hire personnel, competition, security threats including stolen NFTs and cryptocurrencies from TerraZero or its customers, consumer sentiment towards TerraZero's products, services and Metaverse technology generally, failure to develop new and innovative products, litigation, increase in operating costs, increase in labor costs, decrease in the price of cryptocurrencies and NFTs, failure of counterparties to perform their contractual obligations, government regulations, loss of key employees and consultants, and general economic, market, or business conditions. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date of this news release. Except as required by law, the Company disclaims any intention and assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Additionally, the Company undertakes no obligation to comment on the expectations of or statements made by third parties.  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/terrazero-technologies-inc-announces-the-appointment-of-chief-information-officer-and-promotion-of-co-chief-operating-officers-301767918.html SOURCE  TerraZero Technologies Inc.   View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2023/09/c3494.html © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.