Starting with the Xbox 360 in 2006, Microsoft's Xbox controllers have been the easiest controller to use on PC. That has a little something to do with Microsoft making both the console and Windows, of course—but we still have the Xbox 360 gamepad to thank for making PC gaming with a controller convenient. Microsoft has kept that convenience streak going for nearly 20 years now with every iteration of the Xbox. If you want a dead simple plug-and-play experience, the Xbox controller is simply the obvious choice. The latest model, the Xbox Series controller, is definitely among the best PC controllers anyway—I love its textured grips, which have been slightly altered from the previous generation, and I could listen to that clicky D-Pad all day. After so many years it can be a little hard to remember some of the small differences between Microsoft's controllers for the Xbox 360, Xbox One and Xbox Series, and how they work on PC. They're all easy to use, but there are some small differences that matter based on your PC. Enter this guide, with instructions for every generation of Xbox pad, including the original from 2001! Built-in Windows drivers mean you won't need any special software for your PC (or most games) to immediately recognize your Xbox gamepad when you plug it in. There are a few different ways to connect an Xbox controller to PC wirelessly, though, and a few things you should know about the different iterations of the Xbox One controller specifically (wireless makes everything more complicated). Here's what you need to know to hook up your Xbox controller to PC, no matter the era. The Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X|S controllers all use USB cables to connect to your PC. It really is that simple: they'll be recognized by Windows and just work in any PC game with controller support. You may need to buy a USB cable to connect them, however: Micro-USB to USB-A cable for Xbox One controller USB-C to USB-A cable for Xbox Series controller The wired Xbox 360 controller comes with its USB cable built-in But what about if you want to use the original Xbox controller on PC, from all the way back in 2001? The easiest way to do that is with the officially licensed Hyperkin Duke controller, a painstaking recreation of the monstrous original pad. This updated version comes with a USB cable for easy plug-and-play with modern systems. But if you really want to use your vintage Duke or S controller from an original Xbox rather than a reproduction, you can buy this adapter and pair it with the XB2XInput driver to make the 20+ year old controller play nice with your PC. Now let's get into wireless. Hardware Xbox Series X|S controller Xbox Wireless adapter for Windows (optional) Or built-in Bluetooth / a Bluetooth dongle AA batteries The Xbox Series controller includes built-in Bluetooth, which allows for easy wireless pairing with your PC. There are two ways to go about using this controller wirelessly: one is with the official Xbox wireless adapter, and the other is through a standard Bluetooth connection. You don't need the official adapter as long as your PC has built-in Bluetooth, or you have another Bluetooth dongle. How to connect with the Xbox Wireless adapter for Windows As simple as a wireless connection gets: 1. Plug the Xbox Wireless adapter into a USB port. 2. Turn on your Xbox Series controller by holding the Guide button in the center. Now press the the small sync button on the top of the controller until the Guide button begins flashing. 3. Press the small sync button located on the side of the Xbox Wireless adapter for a couple seconds. Watch the flashing Guide button on the controller. When it goes solid, you're connected! How to connect the Xbox Series controller via Bluetooth 1. Press the Windows key and type "Bluetooth" until search brings up the "Bluetooth & other devices" settings menu. Click it to open that settings page. Here you should see your Bluetooth is set to "On" and is discoverable. 2. Turn on the Xbox Series controller by holding the Guide button. Press the sync button on top of the controller until the Guide light begins to flash rapidly. 3. In the Bluetooth settings menu, click "Add Bluetooth or other device" and then select Bluetooth from the menu options. After a few seconds of searching, your Xbox  Series controller should show up. Click to pair. And you're done. Hardware Xbox One controller Xbox Wireless adapter for Windows AA batteries The Xbox One controller is slightly more complicated than the Series X|S controller, because it saw a mid-generation update that changed its internal hardware. We'll get to those changes in a second. But this first option, connecting with the official wireless adapter, will work with any Xbox One controller. How to connect with the Xbox Wireless adapter for Windows This process is nearly as simple as connecting with a USB cable, and is basically identical to connecting the controller to an Xbox console. 1. Plug the Xbox Wireless adapter into a USB port. 2. Turn on your Xbox One controller by holding the Guide button in the center. Now press the the small sync button on the top of the controller until the Guide button begins flashing. 3. Press the small sync button located on the side of the Xbox Wireless adapter for a couple seconds. Watch the flashing Guide button on the controller. When it goes solid, you're connected! How to connect the Xbox One controller via Bluetooth Here's where things get a little complicated. Certain models of the Xbox One controller can connect to any old PC Bluetooth adapter. Others can't. Here's how to tell if your Xbox One controller has built-in Bluetooth: The shape of the plastic molding at the top of the controller is your clue. The first iteration of the Xbox One controller does not support Bluetooth and has a few other annoyances. Its bumpers have a narrower click range, making them less comfortable depending on where you position your fingers. The redesigned controller launched with the Xbox One S console has a smaller plastic molding along the top. It also adds a 3.5mm headphone jack to the bottom of the controller, another easy giveaway. On top of that headphone jack, it also has built-in Bluetooth! 1. Press the Windows key and type "Bluetooth" until search brings up the Bluetooth & other devices settings option. Click it to open that settings page. Here you should see your Bluetooth is set to "On" and is discoverable. Windows version note: Using the Xbox One controller via Bluetooth only works on Windows 10 with the Anniversary update applied. 2. Turn on the Xbox One controller by holding the Guide button. Press the sync button on top of the controller until the Guide light begins to flash rapidly. 3. In the Bluetooth settings menu, click "Add Bluetooth or other device" and then select Bluetooth from the menu options. After a few seconds of searching, your Xbox controller should show up. Click it to pair. And you're wirelessly connected! Headset note: Only one Xbox One controller can be paired via Bluetooth. Headsets not supported. Hardware Xbox 360 wireless controller Xbox 360 wireless receiver for PC AA batteries The Xbox 360 controller came in a hardwired version that was for years our go-to on PC because it was just so dang cheap. These days there are tons of knock-offs for sale, but you're likely not going to see many official Microsoft ones available new. We'd definitely recommend one of the newer Series X|S controllers, anyway—they feel much, much better in the hand. There was also a wireless version, which wasn't quite so convenient for PC gamers. But if you happen to have a wireless 360 controller sitting around that you're determined to use, it is possible on PC with the right accessory. A wireless Xbox 360 receiver plugs in via USB and can connect to up to four Xbox 360 controllers. To pair, you'll hold down the sync button on top of the Xbox 360 controller until the LED starts to blink; then hold down the button on the wireless adapter for a few seconds. Release and the two should connect shortly. Note that the model linked above is not an official Microsoft adapter, which has been discontinued, but it should do the job. If you want one of Microsoft's, you can still find them new or used on Ebay. The official wireless adapter for Xbox One & Series X|S controllers does not work with 360 controllers. CONTROLLER SETUP GUIDES How to use a: PS4 controller on PC PS3 controller on PC Nintendo Switch Pro controller on PC Xbox One controller on PC It's not just games that have updates these days. So do controllers! While it's not necessary to update your Xbox controller, if you want to, the process is pretty simple. 1. Open the Windows Store and search for Xbox Accessories. Install the app and open it. Or you can just click this link. Windows version note: The app only works with Windows 10 with the Anniversary update applied. 2. Plug your Xbox One controller in with a micro-USB cable, or Series X|S controller with a USB-C cable. 3. Click the "More options" button to check if there's a firmware update for your controller. Instead of configuring controller options on a game-by-game basis, you can also use the Accessories app to change button mapping, swap and invert sticks and triggers, and enable or disable rumble. If you have an Xbox Elite controller, you can also use the Accessories app to configure options like trigger and analog stick sensitivity. You can save different configurations to the two profiles the controller supports. Not a controller person? Here's a round-up of the best gaming keyboards, and best gaming mouse. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.