 Shelton, CT, July 11, 2023 — TMC, a global, integrated media company helping clients build communities in print, in person and online, in conjunction with its partner Crossfire Media, today announced the winners of the 2023 IoT Product of the Year  Award, presented by IoT Evolution World. The award honors the best and most innovative products and solutions powering the Internet of Things. Nominated solutions must have been available for deployment within the past twelve months as judged by the editors of IoT Evolution World magazine. “Congratulations to recipients of 2023 IoT Product of the Year  Awards,” said Rich Tehrani, CEO, TMC. “It is one of the most rewarding parts of our jobs at IoT Evolution World to recognize the latest innovative products and solutions in the exploding IoT market. With our partners at Crossfire Media, we all look forward to seeing their future successes!” 2023 IoT Product of the Year Award Recipients  Company Product AMOP Carrier Optimization Asimily Asimily Insight BlackPearl Technology, Inc. The Interceptor Coolon Brilliant Connected Lights Digital Matter Hawk IoT Data Logger Link Labs Inc. AirFinder Ultra Monnit ALTA XL IoT and Ethernet Gateways Nova Mobile Systems Inc. IoT Conductor Powerhouse Dynamics Open Kitchen Presence Management PropStop SAS SAS Analytics for IoT TOKU ILLUMASS ZEDEDA ZEDEDA 
For more than 20 years, TMC has been honoring technology companies with awards in various categories. These awards are regarded as some of the most prestigious and respected awards in the communications and technology sector worldwide.  Winners represent prominent players in the market who consistently demonstrate the advancement of technologies. Each recipient is a verifiable leader in the marketplace. About Crossfire Media
Crossfire Media is an integrated marketing company with a core focus on future trends in technology. We service communities of interest with conferences, tradeshows, webinars and newsletters. Crossfire Media has a partnership with Technology Marketing Corporation (TMC) to produce events and websites related to disruptive technologies. Crossfire Media is a division of Crossfire Consulting, a full service Information Technology company based in New York. 
About TMC Through education, industry news, live events and social influence, global buyers rely on TMC’s content-driven marketplaces to make purchase decisions and navigate markets. As a result, leading technology vendors turn to TMC for unparalleled branding, thought leadership and lead generation opportunities. Our in-person and online events deliver unmatched visibility and sales prospects for all percipients. Through our custom lead generation programs, we provide clients with an ongoing stream of leads that turn into sales opportunities and build databases. Additionally, we bolster brand reputations with the millions of impressions from display advertising on our news sites and newsletters. Making TMC a 360 degree marketing solution, we offer comprehensive event and road show management services and custom content creation with expertly ghost-crafted blogs, press releases, articles and marketing collateral to help with SEO, branding, and overall marketing efforts. For more information about TMC and to learn how we can help you reach your marketing goals, please visit www.tmcnet.com and follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter, @tmcnet. For more information about TMC and to learn how we can help you reach your marketing goals, please visit www.tmcnet.com. TMC Contact
Michelle Connolly
Senior Marketing Manager
203-852-6800, ext. 170
[email protected] 



Click here to read full bio

 Sing up to receive our updates and other IoT Evolution news! 

 


 
  
  
  

 © 2024 All Rights Reserved 