Emmie Noyes and Emory Johnson at the Arkansas Governor's Cup Awards Luncheon Emmie Noyes and Emory Johnson, graduate students in U of A's Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness, advanced to the semifinals at the Arkansas Governor's Cup last month. They presented their start-up company, Agri-Guard, which was selected as a finalist in the graduate-level high growth and technology section of the competition. The Arkansas Governor's Cup was launched by the Arkansas Capital to promote college students to be innovative and try their hand at entrepreneurship. The goal is to immerse students in launching new innovative business ideas into already existing industries. Any degree-seeking student currently studying at a college or university in the state is open to applying for the competition. Students must meet many different requirements, including having majority ownership of the company idea they are presenting and having "C-Level" roles on its management team. "I really enjoyed getting the opportunity to compete in the Governor's Cup," Noyes said. "I learned a lot about what it takes to develop a full business plan and just how much thought and planning goes into starting a new business venture. Emory and I put in a lot of hard work, and there were many late nights in the office, but we're both extremely proud of Agri-Guard, and we both hope to compete again next year." "It was an honor to represent the agriculture economics department and expand my knowledge of crop insurance through our start-up company," Johnson said. Trey Malone, assistant professor in the department and the Dale Bumpers College of Agricultural, Food and Life Sciences, was the faculty adviser for the project. He helped coach Noyes and Johnson and mentor them as they developed their presentation. "Emmie and Emory broke new ground with this competition," Malone said. "They were the only ag-related business plan that made it to the finals, and their hard work really shined through during their pitch." "We also couldn't have done this competition without the help of our adviser, Dr. Trey Malone," Noyes said. "It was an honor to get to work with someone so knowledgeable about agribusiness entrepreneurship, and we both learned a lot from him throughout this process." While the duo did not win the competition, they were the only agriculture business plan that advanced to the semi-final round. "Although we didn't receive any prize money, the opportunity to compete against some of Arkansas' most innovative students was an excellent experience," Johnson said. "Engaging in this competition has allowed me to learn and grow as a future entrepreneur in the agri-food and agri-tech sectors." About the Dale Bumpers College of Agricultural, Food and Life Sciences: Bumpers College provides life-changing opportunities to position and prepare graduates who will be leaders in the businesses associated with foods, family, the environment, agriculture, sustainability and human quality of life; and who will be first-choice candidates of employers looking for leaders, innovators, policy makers and entrepreneurs. The college is named for Dale Bumpers, former Arkansas governor and longtime U.S. senator who made the state prominent in national and international agriculture. For more information about Bumpers College, visit our website, and follow us on Twitter at @BumpersCollege and Instagram at BumpersCollege.  
                                            Lauren Sutherland , communications and recruitment specialist
                                            
                                            Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness
                                            
                                            479-226-1081,
                                                ls059@uark.edu
 Fayetteville Mayor Lioneld Jordan has proclaimed Aug. 19 "WE CARE Day" in honor of the College of Education and Health Professions, and the college is celebrating all week. Here's the deep dive into making your way around campus and beyond, helpful venues for getting started, best options for staying hearty and healthy, basics for staying safe and how to stay connected to campus news. The Sam M. Walton College of Business is honoring the remarkable career of Professor Paul Cronan on Thursday, Aug. 22. Selom Ametepe, an international doctoral candidate in the Cell and Molecular Biology Program, recently received the DeLill Nasser Travel Award for Professional Development in Genetics. Allie Primm Blackford, Peter Perry, Todd Walters, Katie Winkler and Nigel York were selected as the five outstanding employees as the Employees of the 4th Quarter for the 2024-25 academic year.