Brought to you by  4D-710 is under clinical development by 4D Molecular Therapeutics and currently in Phase II for Cystic Fibrosis. According to GlobalData, Phase II drugs for Cystic Fibrosis have a 31% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase III. GlobalData’s report assesses how 4D-710’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. 4D-710 is under clinical development by 4D Molecular Therapeutics and currently in Phase II for Cystic Fibrosis. According to GlobalData, Phase II drugs for Cystic Fibrosis have a 31% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase III. GlobalData’s report assesses how 4D-710’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 GlobalData tracks drug-specific phase transition and likelihood of approval scores, in addition to indication benchmarks based off 18 years of historical drug development data. Attributes of the drug, company and its clinical trials play a fundamental role in drug-specific PTSR and likelihood of approval. 4D-710 overview 4D-710 is under development for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. It is formulated as aerosol administered by inhalational route. The drug candidate comprises of 4D-A101 AAV vector encoding for CFTR gene. It is developed based on vector evolution platform technology that uses AAV (Adeno-Associated Virus) vector. 4D Molecular Therapeutics overview 4D Molecular Therapeutics (4DMT) is a gene therapy company that discovers and develops targeted and proprietary AAV gene therapy vectors and therapeutic products. The company’s pipeline products include 4D-125, 4D-110, 4D-150, 4D-175, 4D-310, 4D-725, and 4D-710. It has developed a technology platform, Therapeutic Vector Evolution, that facilitates the creation of customized gene delivery vehicles (novel AAV vectors) to deliver genes to any tissue or organ in the body. 4DMT develops pipeline products that target areas such as liver, retina, heart, brain, skeletal muscle, and lungs. The company works in partnership with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd to design, develop and commercialize AAV products for use in ophthalmology indications. 4DMT is headquartered in Emeryville, California, the US.
 For a complete picture of 4D-710’s drug-specific PTSR and LoA scores, buy the report here. 
                                This content was updated on 10 June 2024                                 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying data, research, and analysis used to produce this article. GlobalData’s Likelihood of Approval analytics tool dynamically assesses and predicts how likely a drug will move to the next stage in clinical development (PTSR), as well as how likely the drug will be approved (LoA). This is based on a combination of machine learning and a proprietary algorithm to process data points from various databases found on GlobalData’s Pharmaceutical Intelligence Center. Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024