The 2023 Consumer Electronics Show is taking place this week, and MacRumors sent videographer Dan Barbera to capture the action and check out new products on the show floor. Our day 1 roundup features everything from connected toilet products to massive monitors to fun lighting products. Subscribe to the MacRumors YouTube channel for more videos.Hyper showed off a backpack with Find My and a 25,000 mAh battery, Nanoleaf introduced a 4D TV Smarter Kit for matching your smart lights to the content on your TV, and Nuwa demoed a pen that converts notes into digital text, with no limitations on the paper that you can use. Withings had a sensor that goes in your toilet to monitor your urine, and Samsung had a 5K Viewfinity S9 display, its first 5K monitor to compete with the Apple Studio Display. Samsung also had a Bespoke fridge with a customizable front panel, and the company demoed the Philips Hue Sync integration coming to some TVs. Make sure to watch Dan's video to see all of the products that he came across, and if you want to know more, we have a dedicated CES 2023 hub with all of our CES coverage. Get weekly top MacRumors stories in your inbox. Our comprehensive guide highlighting every major new addition in iOS 17, plus how-tos that walk you through using the new features. Update now for a number of important security fixes. Get the most out your iPhone 15 with our complete guide to all the new features. A deep dive into new features in macOS Sonoma, big and small. Updates to Mail, Photos, Messages, and more, with Apple Intelligence features throughout. iPhone Mirroring, Safari improvements, new Passwords app, and Apple Intelligence features throughout. Apple Intelligence features, Smart Script handwriting refinement, Calculator app, and more. New hand gestures, rearrange apps in Home View, larger Mac Virtual Display, and more. 13 hours ago by Tim Hardwick 4 days ago by Juli Clover 5 days ago by Tim Hardwick 6 days ago by Tim Hardwick 1 week ago by Tim Hardwick   MacRumors attracts a broad audience of both consumers and professionals interested in the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and other Apple platforms.