DJI adds agility to their pro camera platform, and introduces its first cinema zoom lens PUBLISHED : 10 Mar 2023 at 15:01 DJI, the world’s leader in civilian drones and creative camera technology, on March 7, 2023, introduced Ronin 4D Flex, a new way to use the Ronin 4D professional cinema camera platform. 4D Flex allows operators to separate the Zenmuse X9 gimbal camera from the main body, reducing handheld weight and size to achieve professional footage with even more flexible camera movement. Seamless compatibility with the 4D Hand Grips and Main Monitor effectively transforms a camera operator into a one-man cinema unit. Also announced is the DL PZ 17-28mm T3.0 Lens, DJI’s first-ever cinema-grade zoom lens, allowing for 100% native focus and zoom for a new level of image quality into the Ronin 4D system. Finally, an activation license key for the Apple ProRes RAW codec on Ronin 4D is now available for purchase at the DJI Store, making it even easier to integrate Ronin 4D footage into cinema productions. “Ronin 4D reimagined what a single cinema camera can do by achieving a new standard of versatility, cinema quality, and image stability in one piece of equipment,” said Paul Pan, Senior Product Line Manager at DJI. “4D Flex and the DL PZ 17-28mm Lens show the expansive capabilities of this platform to allow cinematographers to capture footage in completely new ways. With these products, we want to express that when it comes to what’s possible with DJI Pro, we’re only getting started.” Flexibility for teams of any size Ronin 4D Flex provides creators with a more flexible and efficient camera movement system and a unique creative experience. Solo operators can separate the X9 gimbal camera from the main body, reducing the handheld weight of Ronin 4D to just 1.8kg, letting them shoot for long durations more easily in mobile situations like events and documentaries. 4D Flex also makes the X9 gimbal camera compatible with a variety of rigs and let professional crews shoot footage that was previously extremely difficult or even impossible, such as cinema-quality through-shots and dynamic camera interiors. Real-time control Connecting Ronin 4D Flex to the main body is a 2m ultra-thin coaxial cable, supporting lossless transmission of up to 8K. This allows high-speed signals from the camera sensor to reach the main body instantly, and also control and monitoring signals to be delivered in real-time. This solid cable connection lends 4D Flex unprecedented flexibility of camera positions, no matter how limited the space. It also allows the Zenmuse X9 gimbal camera to be used as an ultra-small cinematic-grade remote head. Handles like a DJI Pro Ronin 4D Flex is compatible with the ever-growing Ronin ecosystem of professional cinematography solutions. Native compatibility with Ronin 4D’s Hand Grips and the Main Monitor provides cinematographers with a whole set of solutions, including cinematic imaging, 3-axis stabilisation, LiDAR focusing, and professional monitoring and control. The result is a convenient and efficient creative experience unparalleled in the industry today. Switching between Flex and the integrated configuration on set is fast and no tools are required for this transition, providing greater versatility. For static shots, the standard Pan Axis Quick-Lock with accessories pushes the limits of the gimbal’s payload, supporting telephoto, cinema zoom, and anamorphic lenses to give users wider freedom of choice for the shot they envision. DJI’s first cinema zoom lens The DL PZ 17-28mm T3.0 Lens arrives as DJI’s first-ever cinema-grade zoom lens. Thanks to its precise back focus control and native system calibration, autofocus, manual focus and automated manual focus (AMF) are all more outstandingly accurate. Mounted on Zenmuse X9, this lens delivers ultra-high resolution from centre to edge while covering ultra-wide to wide-angle focal lengths with a minimum object distance of 0.19 m. Built to work in a single take Constructed of aluminum magnesium alloy, the DL PZ 17-28mm T3.0 Lens weighs approximately 520 g, providing a size-to-weight ratio that is a perfect match for the X9 gimbal camera. The internal servo zoom motor delivers a smooth and reliable zoom that eliminates the need for an external focus motor or lens calibration. And the DL PZ 17-28mm adjusts zoom without requiring re-balancing. Price and availability ● Ronin 4D Flex price is 27,800 THB, and includes Ronin 4D Flex, one Pan Axis Quick-Lock, two Ronin 4D Hand Grip Adapters, and 2 Hand Grip Adapter Cables. ● The DL PZ 17-28mm T3.0 Lens is 50,600 THB. ● The Apple ProRes RAW license for Ronin 4D will be available for purchase today at www.store.dji.com The DJI 4D Flex is now available for purchase on Febuary 13th, 2023 from now onwards. At all 5 DJI Experience Stores and dealers nationwide. ● DJI Experience Store - Central Rama 9, 4th Floor, IT Zone, Tel. 098-555-2983 ● DJI Experience Store - Future Park Rangsit ,2nd Floor, Tel. 098-851-9938 ● DJI HASSELBLAD SIAM PARAGON, 3rd Floor, Tel. 090-699-9896 ● DJI Experience Store - Fashion Island, 3rd Floor, Tel. 065-005-5446 ● DJI Experience Store - Central Phuket Floresta, 2nd Floor, Tel. 065-009-9224 In addition to these, two upcoming accessories – the DJI Three-Channel Follow Focus and DJI Ronin 4D Expansion Plate (SDI/XLR/TC) – will both be available by May 2023. Full details can be found at www.dji.com/Ronin-4D By subscribing, you accept the terms and conditions in our privacy policy.