One lucky player in Florida is now a billionaire after matching all six numbers in Tuesday's drawing. The Mega Millions lottery jackpot swelled to $1.58 billion after no winners were declared Friday. Tuesday's drawing had a cash option of $783.3 million. The jackpot is the top three largest U.S. jackpot of all time just weeks after a $1.08 billion Powerball jackpot was recently won in California. Mega Millions jackpot was last won on April 20 when a lottery player in New York won $20 million. The winner took a $10.5 million cash prize. In Spanish:¿Quién ganó la lotería Mega Millions el martes? Revisa los resultados Here's a look at the winning numbers for Tuesday:  The winning numbers for Friday night's drawing were 13-19-20-32-33 and the Megaball was 14, with a Megaplier of 2X. Cashing in:$1 million Mega Millions ticket purchased in Austin One person from Florida matched all five numbers and the Megaball Tuesday. According to the lottery game, two players hit the Match 5 with the megaplier, bringing their winnings to $2 million. The players are from Florida and North Carolina. Seven players hit the Match 5 to win $1 million. They were in the following states: California, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and two in Texas. More:Is there a strategy to winning Mega Millions and Powerball? Tips for picking numbers Matching just the Mega Ball is worth a $2 prize, the same cost as a ticket. Paying for a Megaplier will cost you an extra dollar, but can boost your prize money if you match others. For example, you can win $10 if you match three regular balls. Doing so with a megaplier of 2, increases your prize to $20, a megaplier of 3 pushes it up to $30, and so on. In Texas, and states outside of California, matching all five white balls is worth up to $1 million. Should the megaplier be 5, a potential prize of $5 million is on the table for a match five. The last highest jackpot for a national lottery drawing was recently, with a record $2.04 billion Powerball jackpot being won in California on Nov. 7, 2022.  Tuesday's Mega Millions jackpot was the biggest in its history, worth $1.58 billion. Previously, the biggest Mega Millions jackpot was won on Oct. 23, 2018 in South Carolina. It was worth $1.537 billion. 