Playing just a  few hours from their Nashville home, the Ensworth Tigers outscored Baylor 37-18 in the second half to earn a come-from-behind  61-58 victory. Nic Hyche and Devaki Garr combined for 29 of those 37 second-half points hitting big shots late to finish off the exhilarating comeback in a game that they didn’t even lead for one full minute. Baylor’s Zane Restelli and Ensworth’s Nic Hyche went at each other all night, scoring 26 and 25 respectively, and carrying their respective teams offensively. While early offense from junior guard Nyziah Whaley pushed Baylor to a six-point lead in the first quarter, Ensworth knocked down a pair of threes as the period drew towards its close, and heading into the second quarter, Ensworth had battled to keep themselves in a one-possession game. That didn’t last long. Baylor started the second quarter with a 14-0 run, the first nine of which came by way of a trio of three-point plays from Restelli, two jumpers from beyond the arc, and one the old-fashioned way on a bucket plus the foul. Restelli kept his foot on the gas for the remainder of the half and led his Red Raiders to a 15-point advantage at the break. Ensworth came out of the half reinvigorated and in need of some quick offense if they wanted to avoid finding themselves in a hole too deep to dig out of, and quick offense is just what they got. After drawing a foul on a crafty bucket and hitting the free throw, Ensworth’s shooters went to work. Devaki Garr and Nic Hyche rattled off three straight made three-point baskets, and in abrupt fashion, Ensworth had responded to the 14-0 Baylor run that started the second quarter with a 12-0 run of their own to start the second half. The newfound intensity and fire continued to drive Ensworth, boiling over at one point when Ethan Utley was T’d up following some pushing and shoving on a held ball that ended with Baylor's Restelli flat on his backside. The rest of a half took place with heightened competitive ferocity following the skirmish, and though Baylor later led by 10 points, neither team played like a group willing to give an inch. Baylor took a nine-point lead into the fourth quarter, and though they had battled back from 15 once before, Ensworth was down to their final eight minutes to mount another run.    Once again, that’s just what the Tigers did.    Starting the quarter with a 7-2 run, Ensworth outscored Baylor 18-8 through the first seven minutes of the final quarter thanks in no small part to more good three-point shooting from Garr and Hyche. Just like that, the game had ticked down to its final minute with Baylor trailing 58-59, with their first deficit of the contest.    “We talked at halftime about doing the simple things better,” said Ensworth head coach Bradley Pierson. “Devaki Garr and Nic Hyche made some big shots for us down the stretch,” said Pierson.    The final 60 seconds of the game were fervent and tense, with the teams racing back and forth searching for good looks, hindered by the most fierce defense they had seen all game. After neither team was able to find a bucket for the first 55 seconds of the game’s deciding minute, Baylor called a timeout to draw up an inbound play with just under five seconds on the clock.    Executing a well-designed inbound play, sophomore Brock Barton delivered a long bounce pass under the basket to Nyziah Whaley who had found himself streaking wide open right under the basket. The hands of the Baylor fans met the tops of their heads in despair and Red Raiders on the bench bent at the waist in despondency as they saw the pass deflect off of Whaley’s fingertips and out of bounds for the game-sealing turnover.    “We did a better job on number four for them (Zane Restelli) after he had a really great first half.  We made enough plays down the stretch to win the game. Very proud of a team effort and a collective effort,” said Pierson.    Ensworth improves to 4-2 on the year while Baylor drops to 1-3 after the gut-wrenching loss.    Baylor girls 64, Ensworth 56: The Lady Tigers and Lady Raiders battled in a contest filled with just as much drama as the boys game. In fact, regulation wasn’t enough to decide a winner in this matchup, and a winner wasn’t crowned until a four-minute overtime period had been played. Baylor eventually ground out a 64-56 win with impressive performances late, and a scoring burst in overtime.    The game stayed locked up and separated by only a few points all throughout the first half with Baylor trailing 31-27 at the break. The Ensworth lead was in large part due to a superstar performance from guard Jaloni Cambridge who rattled off 18 first-half points and looked poised to will her team to a victory.    Early in the second half, however, Cambridge flung herself into the stands looking for a loose ball and though she stayed in the game after a grimace or two, the ensuing trip down the floor ended with her dropping to the ground and being helped off the floor. Cambridge did not return to the game and Ensworth missed her offensive firepower for the duration of the contest.    Riley Oleksik and Bella White carried the load for Baylor in regulation, but when overtime started, Hadleigh Warton took over. Warton scored all 12 of Baylor’s points in overtime and single-handedly sunk the Lady Tigers after an epic balanced matchup.        Boys Summary   ENSWORTH       16       8       17       20    –   61 BAYLOR       19       20       21       8    –   58     ENSWORTH (61) – Nic Hyche 25, Devaki Garr 23, Hopkins 6, Gordon 3, Coppeans 2,  Utley 2 BAYLOR (58) – Zane Restelli 26, Nyziah Whaley 11, Sparks 8, Fields 5, Shutters 7, Barton 1.  3-point goals: Ensworth 11 (Devaki Garr 4, Nic Hyche 5, Justin Hopkins 2); Baylor 5 (Zane Rosetti 2, Naziah Whaley 1, T.J. Fields 1, Jack Shutters 1) Records: Baylor 1-3 Overall; Ensworth 4-2 Overall      Girls Summary   ENSWORTH (56) - Jaloni Cambridge 20, Jayden Surratt 12, Jamison 9, Cooper 4, Brown 4, Wells 4, Garza 3. BAYLOR (64) - Hadleigh Warton 20, Riley Oleksik 16, Bella White 12, Watson 8, Merritt 7, Sanders 1. 3-point goals: Ensworth 3 (Jamison 1, Cambridge 2);  Baylor 7 (Riley Oleksik 4, Merritt, Watson 2). Prep Schedules for Week of: August 19th 
 
 All times are local to the event 
 
 (Coaches/ADs: Please send any schedule corrections or additions to Dennis Norwood, Prep Sports Editor, at ...  more The Baylor girls soccer team traveled across town to take on the East Hamilton Lady Canes on Thursday and the Lady Red Raiders prevailed by a score of 4-1. 
 At the 23 rd minute, Avery Listen ...  more Formerly known as the Jamboree, the annual pre-season football event continued Thursday at Finley Stadium, with a new name: BlueCross Bowl: Prelude To A Championship more