Home » Funding By Vishal Singh By Vishal Singh | February 28, 2023 | Last update: March 25, 2024 London-based Humanising Autonomy, a company building the global standard for human-machine interactions, announced on Tuesday that it raised debt funding from Silicon Valley Bank UK, a financial partner shaping the innovation economy. The amount of the current round remains undisclosed. The funding follows the company’s $11M Series A round raised in October 2021. Bailey Morrow, MD, Venture & Growth at Silicon Valley Bank UK, says, “We are excited to be partnering with Maya and the Humanising Autonomy team on their next phase of growth. This technology is critically important in helping bridge the gap between humans and machines, allowing both to interact and create a safer environment.” “With continued advancements in AI, we think Humanising Autonomy is well positioned to create an ethical and conscious foundation for the future of behavioural AI,” adds Morrow. Humanising Autonomy says the money will help support its growth into new markets as well as the ongoing implementation of its moral AI computer-vision technology across the mobility and smart spaces industries. Maya Pindeus, co-founder of Humanising Autonomy, says, “The demand for human-centric technology is at its peak, and we’re excited to have the support from Silicon Valley Bank, to scale our work in translating human behavioural context into a language that automated and semi-automated technology can understand so that products and experiences are safer, efficient and more pleasant for people.”  Founded in 2017 by Leslie Nooteboom, Maya Pindeus, and Raunaq Bose, Humanising Autonomy aims to change the way machines understand humans. Its Behavioural AI platform uses computer vision software to understand and predict human behaviour from camera images and videos. The startup’s technology offers actionable data and insights that companies can use to make operational choices, lower risk, and improve customer experiences by connecting to an existing camera platform or video stream. Pindeus believes people are interacting with machines more than ever before. “Whether we’re walking, shopping, driving, looking at billboards, or just being at work, our world is laden with automation that doesn’t understand how people behave. That lack of human context leads to inefficient decisions by the machine, uninformed operational strategies by the business responsible for them and, ultimately, a poor experience for us as people.” “Our technology is changing how machines understand people and how businesses evaluate and extract insight from their data,” adds Pindeus. Currently, the company operates across the video telematics, construction, transportation, mobility, and intelligent video analytics sectors with an aim to improve the way societies protect, understand and engage their citizens. Topics:  Follow us:  Vishal Singh is a News Reporter and Social Media Marketing Lead at Silicon Canals. He covers developments in the European startup ecosystem and oversees the publication's social media presence. Before joining Silicon Canals, Vishal gained experience at the Indian digital media outlet Inc42, contributing to its growth with insightful content. Despite being a college dropout, his passion for writing has driven his career in journalism. Current MonthSeptember

06sep(sep 6)10:00 am08(sep 8)3:00 pmEvent of the Month: TechVillageMATCHING FOUNDERS AND INVESTORS IN THE MOST BEAUTIFUL MOLDOVAN VILLAGE
Event DetailsTechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a


Event Details

TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a new setting.
If you are an investor or startup founder and you like the rural scenery, you like to get your hands dirty (literally), and explore new cultures, cuisines and wines, while interacting with other investors and founders, you’ll love it at TechVillage.






Learn More




CalendarGoogleCal




TimeSeptember 6, 2024 10:00 am - September 8, 2024 3:00 pm(GMT+03:00)



LocationButuceni, Orheiul VechiOther Events



OrganizerXY PartnersLearn More  







 September 06sep(sep 6)10:00 am08(sep 8)3:00 pmEvent of the Month: TechVillageMATCHING FOUNDERS AND INVESTORS IN THE MOST BEAUTIFUL MOLDOVAN VILLAGE TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a new setting.
If you are an investor or startup founder and you like the rural scenery, you like to get your hands dirty (literally), and explore new cultures, cuisines and wines, while interacting with other investors and founders, you’ll love it at TechVillage. CalendarGoogleCal September 6, 2024 10:00 am - September 8, 2024 3:00 pm(GMT+03:00) Butuceni, Orheiul Vechi Learn More 01 02 03 04 05 About Silicon Canals Partner with Silicon Canals Impressum Contact Silicon Canals Disclaimer Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Editorial Policy Silicon Canals 2014 - 2024 | Website: Bright Idiots | Images: Depositphotos [wp_dark_mode style="2"]