NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Former ITV presenter Jeremy Kyle has announced that his wife is pregnant with his sixth child. The Jeremy Kyle Show host, 58, revealed that he and Victoria, 39, are expecting a baby girl. Speaking about the news, the broadcaster joked about competing with former Prime Minister Boris Johnson for his number of children. ‘Yes, baby number six is incoming, I’m catching BoJo up, to be honest!’ he quipped. ‘Vic says I need to set up a side business by bottling it because I’m 58 and I’ve only got one testicle, but everyone knows that anyway,’ Jeremy added to The Sun. ‘It’s a baby girl, she’s due early next year, and we’re over the moon as our family is complete.’ Jeremy overcame testicular cancer in 2012. Speaking of his previous illness, he added to the publication: ‘It’s been a horrific time — a very sobering experience — but now I just feel lucky to be alive. ‘I feel lucky that I’m here for family and can see my kids grow up. ‘To be honest, I thought, “That’s it, I’m dead”.’ He tied the knot with Victoria Burton in 2021 after the pandemic forced them to rearrange their wedding six times, and they already share a son named Oliver, who was born in 2020. The couple met when Jeremy hired ‘her ‘Vicky’ to look after his ex-wife Carla Germaine’s children. She stopped working for them in 2016 and she and Jeremy became romantically involved. Victoria is the presenter’s third wife, as he married Kirsty Rowley in 1989 and then Carla from 2003 until 2015. As for his children, the controversial host’s eldest Harriet made him a grandad when she gave birth to her own son in 2018. Jeremy also shares Alice and Ava with first wife Kirsty, then Henry with his second wife Carla. The radio host is best known for fronting his daytime TV show from 2005 until it was axed in 2019. Tackling issues dealing with family and relationships, the talk show was cancelled following the death of a guest named Steve Dymond at the age of 63. Sharon Osbourne has fans ‘howling’ with recreation of ‘iconic’ X Factor moment Molly-Mae Hague fans 'feel sick' after watching Tommy Fury moment 7 of the worst TV endings of all time after 'train wreck' Umbrella Academy finale Police forced to visit Jeremy Clarkson's pub after Clarkson's Farm star makes 'error' Dymond died from a morphine overdose and heart problems, with his body found just days after he was humiliated on the show when he failed to pass a lie detector test. Jeremy initially remained out of the limelight for a while, but has since found success in other presenting jobs. He initially joined talkRADIO for their Drivetime show, but left last year to accompany the likes of Piers Morgan on TalkTV. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Ant and Dec helping to tackle crippling decline of children’s mental health across the UK

 

	MORE : The Amazing Race star Jody Kelly dies aged 85

 The newly-crowned 'best' commuter spot is a city I'll never go back to What I Own: We renovated our £590,000 Tooting three-bed but it's getting too small for us We bought a mouldy narrowboat on Facebook Marketplace — it saves us £10,000 a year in rent Need a guarantor for your new rental home? Here's the lowdown on who to choose Cheapest UK city for first-time buyers revealed — but it's ‘bleak’ for some  



  Get us in your feed