Article updated September 25th; article originally posted September 23rd. Google is set to launch the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro handsets on October 4th, and this week, we have the clearest look at the new design of the cutting-edge Android smartphones. Google Pixel smartphone and wearable on display. Update: September 24th: With smartphone photography remaining a key part of any marketing message, Google’s use of artificial intelligence and machine learning to improve the editing tools on previous Pixel handsets helped the Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro stand out with easy-to-understand features such as “Magic Eraser” which quickly removed unwanted elements from a picture. Similarly powerful tools for video editing are expected to launch with the Pixel 8 family. This weekend a leaked video shows the capability of the AI-powered editing suite. “Video boost” which will bring image smoothing and night sight to the suite, and “Audio Eraser” which will clean up the audio and remove background sources of noise. Photo editing also picks up a new “Face Replace” feature, which is only seen briefly, but looks to allow faces to be switched for a better final image; as well as a raft of new features for the Magic Editor. Finally, professional DSLR-level controls are on show, with ISO and Shutter Speed visible on the control panel. Leaked DSLR Controls for the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro. Update: September 25th: Following the leak of the camera software, the specifications sheet for both the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro have been leaked via the prolific Kamila Wojciechowska supported by the team at 91mobiles.  Of note in the camera specs is the decision to go with a 50-megapixel wide camera, specifically the 50-megapixel ISOCELL GN2 sensor from Samsung. One advantage of the ISOCELL is its support for staggered HDR, which takes both a long and short exposure image to improve the processing of an HDR photo. The Pixel 8 Pro also comes with a 48-megapixel ultrawide camera, a 48-megapixel telephoto camera at the rear, with a 10.5-megapixel selfie camera. The Pixel 8 is expected to come with the same 50-megapixel main camera and 10.5-megapixel selfie camera, backed up by a smaller 12-megapixel ultrawide camera at the rear. Leaked Image of Google Pixel 8 Pro (via @evleaks) The new design features can be seen in the official renders of the handsets, published by the reliable team at MySmartPrice. First of all, we can see the confirmed colours fully on display. For the Pixel 8 Pro that means sky blue (as seen in the leaked promotional video for Magic Audio Eraser), porcelain (as seen in the teaser video) and black obsidian (still to be seen, but you can’t have a slab phone without a traditional dark and muted colour in there). For the Pixel 8, you have the subtle pink of peony rose, a utilitarian grey, and the expected traditional black obsidian. I’d also note that the heavily advertised sky blue and porcelain colors are reserved for the larger and more expensive handset. Secondly is a clear view of the camera lens arrangements. The Pixel 8 comes with a dual-lens system, while the Pixel 8 Pro bumps that up to a 3-lens system accompanied by an LED flash and space for a sensor that many expect to be a temperature sensor. The camera continues to be housed in the raised camera bar. This design has purposely helped the Pixel family become one of the most identifiable Android handsets on the current market. Finally is a clear look at the screen and the welcome return of a flat screen for many. The curved edges of the previous Pixel Pro displays have been rolled away, and we have a flat display, one of the first flagship smartphones to do so in many years. We do get more curves in the corners, with Google’s working a touch more bevel around the four sides and the rear of the device. Google will be launching the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro at its “Made By Google” event, which takes place on October 4th in New York. Now read about the Android updates that will push the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro forward...  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.