e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 The Greeley-Evans School District Board of Education voted Monday night to back a recommendation from a book review committee and Superintendent Deirdre Pilch to allow a well-known Toni Morrison book to remain accessible to some students in the district.The board on Monday considered appeals by four people to the 25-person book review committee’s early March recommendation on “Beloved,” a recommendation supported by Pilch. The board’s 5-2 vote upheld Pilch’s ruling in favor of the committee approving the book for inclusion in high school libraries while setting conditions on access to the book for sixth through eighth graders.The committee’s evaluation also said in middle and K-8 schools where “Beloved” is part of the collection, schools should provide phone and email notifications to parents so they are aware their students checked out a book with mature themes.Board members Kyle Bentley, Dr. Brenda Campos-Spitze, Natalie Mash, Michael Mathews and Terri Pappas supported the recommendations of Pilch and the committee. Rob Norwood and Taylor Sullivan were opposed.“We should be protecting kids,” Sullivan said during a question-and-answer exchange with retired assistant superintendent Wes Tuttle, who led the book review committee.Tuttle addressed the board to outline the committee’s work and timeline for evaluating “Beloved.” Tuttle’s appearance followed those from two of the four appellants who were in the board room, district residents Robin Howard and Sonia Miller.Jackie Bellendir and Jamie Weber also filed appeals, but they did not attend the meeting. Candice Sawyer, another district resident, read a statement from Weber.Weber and Miller disrupted board meetings in September and December last year while making their point about materials they see as inappropriate and pornographic. Last month, Miller was part of a protest over books in schools outside of Board of Education President Michael Mathews’ church in Greeley.

On Monday, Miller’s five-minute presentation as part of her appeal quickly turned confrontational when Mathews asked Miller not to read aloud from the book. Miller immediately asked, “Why? Why aren’t we reading passages from this book?”, and the exchange devolved into Miller and Mathews talking over one another.Board Vice President Pappas intervened to ask Miller for more information on the portions of the book Miller said she read.“I shouldn’t have to be questioned because you guys are trying to give children pornography,” Miller yelled at Pappas.Pappas asked Miller a couple of times why she feels it’s necessary to make decisions for other parents when board policy allows parents to opt out of materials for their children and knowing the First Amendment allows for access to books.“They can have access to literature in this school,” Miller yelled. “They don’t need access to porn in this school.”Mathews scolded Sawyer after she read Weber’s statement and used the F-word. Mathews told Sawyer her time was up, and eventually asked District 6 Chief of Safety and Security John Gates to remove Sawyer from the room.Sawyer, Howard and Sullivan all made a point in comments to say they are not advocating for banning the book. Sullivan and Sawyer said they’ve maintained all along they are seeking parental consent for students to read certain materials — not a ban. It’s a request already in practice, according to district policy and a point made by Pappas and other board members through the evening.District policy KEC says, in part, the board “recognizes the right of an individual parent/guardian to request their child not read a given book. When such a request is presented, the Board encourages matters be resolved informally between the parent/guardian and the teacher, librarian, and/or school administrator who should resolve the situation, perhaps by arranging for use of alternative materials for their child meeting essentially the same instructional purpose.”There is also a process in place for opting out of content in the district curriculum.Mash noted two of the residents appealing the book requested “Beloved” be withdrawn from schools in their original complaint forms in December. Weber and Howard checked those boxes in response to a question on a complaint form on their request for the materials. The ability of parents and families to elect to opt out of materials is one reason Bentley said he voted to uphold the recommendations.“If you want your kids to read it, OK,” he said. “If you don’t want your kids to read it, OK.”Steven Grant, a pastor at Greeley church who attended the meeting in support of the women who filed appeals, said his objection to the book is based on values — even though parents and families may elect not to allow their children to see materials they deem inappropriate.“This is our district. We paid for it, and the values are ours,” Grant said. “It began as a Christian school district in the founding of the Union Colony. If you are Jewish, how does that play? Union Colony had other people come in, and yet there must be a moral underpinning for education.”Bentley, who was elected in 2021 with Sullivan and Norwood, said the process to reach a decision for him was “taxing” and time-consuming.“In my opinion, we’re wasting energy,” he said Monday night after the meeting. “The amount of times children checked out the book, and you look at the complainants — it’s the same people who were screaming about masks — and the amount of man-hours involved. The juice wasn’t worth the squeeze.”Tuttle said in his presentation “Beloved” was first purchased by the district in 1999 and last purchased in 2004. Since then, the book has been checked out at least 16 times at Greeley Central High, Northridge High, Greeley West High, Franklin Middle School and Chappelow K-8, which are the current locations of the book.The book has been checked out nine times by 11th and 12th graders at Greeley Central; once by a 12th grader at Northridge; and only by students in Advanced Placement at Greeley West. The book has never been checked out at Franklin Middle, and sixth, seventh, eighth graders and staff at Chappelow have checked it out six times.The last time the book was checked at any of these schools was August 2020.“Beloved,” published in 1987 and the winner of multiple awards, is set in the post-Civil War Reconstruction era and tells the story of the effects of slavery on a family — at times with graphic descriptions and themes of sodomy, abuse, sexual situations, rape and bestiality.The book is not accessible in the district to students in kindergarten through fifth grades.“The content is difficult to read,” said Pappas, who introduced the motion to uphold the recommendations. “Those are things that happened in life. This book is on the AP literature list (for students to read). We want students to have access. Reconstruction was a difficult time. We want students to understand that.”Another theme of the evening by opponents of the recommendations was that the presence of the book in the district breaks federal obscenity laws. Sullivan mentioned the violation of the law in a part of her remarks, and board member Mash asked for clarification about obscenity laws in relation to the book.District legal counsel Nathan Fall answered the board members understood the standards on whether to accept the book or to reject the recommendation to be based on two considerations: educational suitability and pervasive vulgarity.Fall said he thought Sullivan’s reference to the breaking of federal laws was based on the Miller test from the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court case Miller vs. California. The items in the three-prong test to determine obscenity are:
Whether the average person, applying contemporary adult community standards, finds that the matter, taken as a whole, appeals to prurient interests (i.e., an erotic, lascivious, abnormal, unhealthy, degrading, shameful, or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion);
Whether the average person, applying contemporary adult community standards, finds that the matter depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently offensive way (i.e., ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, or sado-masochistic sexual abuse); and
Whether a reasonable person finds that the matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
Fall said if all three points are met, there could be an obscenity law violation according to the Miller case.Fall said after the meeting the issue of obscenity in Miller relates to the work, or book, taken as a whole.“That is what Miller is looking at,” Fall said, adding state laws play a factor. “As far as I’m aware, I’ve never seen a district school board be charged with obscenity laws for upholding a book like ‘Beloved.'”Before the board began the appeal process, it accepted public comment from 14 district residents with the majority of the speakers addressing the book appeal item.Bruce Broderius, a former president of the District 6 board, was among the public speakers who advocated for the current board to do what it ultimately did — uphold the committee’s recommendation and Pilch’s support for the ruling.Broderius, a former Denver Public Schools teacher who served as District 6 board president for five years in the early 2000s, said “there is no difference between people who cannot read, people who refuse to read and people who refuse to think about what they read.”New salary schedule approvedEarlier in its regular meeting Monday evening, the District 6 Board of Education unanimously approved a new salary schedule for District 6 teachers, allowing starting teachers to begin their careers at $48,000 under the master contract for the 2023-24 school year.The current salary for starting teachers in the district is $42,475.Colorado K-12 teachers are known for being paid less than peers in other states and compared with other workers with college degrees statewide, the latter according to a 2021 report from the education nonprofit Chalkbeat. The publication also reported in February starting teachers in Westminster public schools will earn nearly $61,000, which appears to be the highest in the state. The board on Monday considered appeals by four people to the 25-person book review committee’s early March recommendation on “Beloved,” a recommendation supported by Pilch. The board’s 5-2 vote upheld Pilch’s ruling in favor of the committee approving the book for inclusion in high school libraries while setting conditions on access to the book for sixth through eighth graders. The committee’s evaluation also said in middle and K-8 schools where “Beloved” is part of the collection, schools should provide phone and email notifications to parents so they are aware their students checked out a book with mature themes. Board members Kyle Bentley, Dr. Brenda Campos-Spitze, Natalie Mash, Michael Mathews and Terri Pappas supported the recommendations of Pilch and the committee. Rob Norwood and Taylor Sullivan were opposed. “We should be protecting kids,” Sullivan said during a question-and-answer exchange with retired assistant superintendent Wes Tuttle, who led the book review committee. Tuttle addressed the board to outline the committee’s work and timeline for evaluating “Beloved.” Tuttle’s appearance followed those from two of the four appellants who were in the board room, district residents Robin Howard and Sonia Miller. Jackie Bellendir and Jamie Weber also filed appeals, but they did not attend the meeting. Candice Sawyer, another district resident, read a statement from Weber. Weber and Miller disrupted board meetings in September and December last year while making their point about materials they see as inappropriate and pornographic. Last month, Miller was part of a protest over books in schools outside of Board of Education President Michael Mathews’ church in Greeley. On Monday, Miller’s five-minute presentation as part of her appeal quickly turned confrontational when Mathews asked Miller not to read aloud from the book. Miller immediately asked, “Why? Why aren’t we reading passages from this book?”, and the exchange devolved into Miller and Mathews talking over one another. Board Vice President Pappas intervened to ask Miller for more information on the portions of the book Miller said she read. “I shouldn’t have to be questioned because you guys are trying to give children pornography,” Miller yelled at Pappas. Pappas asked Miller a couple of times why she feels it’s necessary to make decisions for other parents when board policy allows parents to opt out of materials for their children and knowing the First Amendment allows for access to books. “They can have access to literature in this school,” Miller yelled. “They don’t need access to porn in this school.” Mathews scolded Sawyer after she read Weber’s statement and used the F-word. Mathews told Sawyer her time was up, and eventually asked District 6 Chief of Safety and Security John Gates to remove Sawyer from the room. Sawyer, Howard and Sullivan all made a point in comments to say they are not advocating for banning the book. Sullivan and Sawyer said they’ve maintained all along they are seeking parental consent for students to read certain materials — not a ban. It’s a request already in practice, according to district policy and a point made by Pappas and other board members through the evening. District policy KEC says, in part, the board “recognizes the right of an individual parent/guardian to request their child not read a given book. When such a request is presented, the Board encourages matters be resolved informally between the parent/guardian and the teacher, librarian, and/or school administrator who should resolve the situation, perhaps by arranging for use of alternative materials for their child meeting essentially the same instructional purpose.” There is also a process in place for opting out of content in the district curriculum. Mash noted two of the residents appealing the book requested “Beloved” be withdrawn from schools in their original complaint forms in December. Weber and Howard checked those boxes in response to a question on a complaint form on their request for the materials.  The ability of parents and families to elect to opt out of materials is one reason Bentley said he voted to uphold the recommendations. “If you want your kids to read it, OK,” he said. “If you don’t want your kids to read it, OK.” Steven Grant, a pastor at Greeley church who attended the meeting in support of the women who filed appeals, said his objection to the book is based on values — even though parents and families may elect not to allow their children to see materials they deem inappropriate. “This is our district. We paid for it, and the values are ours,” Grant said. “It began as a Christian school district in the founding of the Union Colony. If you are Jewish, how does that play? Union Colony had other people come in, and yet there must be a moral underpinning for education.” Bentley, who was elected in 2021 with Sullivan and Norwood, said the process to reach a decision for him was “taxing” and time-consuming. “In my opinion, we’re wasting energy,” he said Monday night after the meeting. “The amount of times children checked out the book, and you look at the complainants — it’s the same people who were screaming about masks — and the amount of man-hours involved. The juice wasn’t worth the squeeze.” Tuttle said in his presentation “Beloved” was first purchased by the district in 1999 and last purchased in 2004. Since then, the book has been checked out at least 16 times at Greeley Central High, Northridge High, Greeley West High, Franklin Middle School and Chappelow K-8, which are the current locations of the book. The book has been checked out nine times by 11th and 12th graders at Greeley Central; once by a 12th grader at Northridge; and only by students in Advanced Placement at Greeley West. The book has never been checked out at Franklin Middle, and sixth, seventh, eighth graders and staff at Chappelow have checked it out six times. The last time the book was checked at any of these schools was August 2020. “Beloved,” published in 1987 and the winner of multiple awards, is set in the post-Civil War Reconstruction era and tells the story of the effects of slavery on a family — at times with graphic descriptions and themes of sodomy, abuse, sexual situations, rape and bestiality. The book is not accessible in the district to students in kindergarten through fifth grades. “The content is difficult to read,” said Pappas, who introduced the motion to uphold the recommendations. “Those are things that happened in life. This book is on the AP literature list (for students to read). We want students to have access. Reconstruction was a difficult time. We want students to understand that.” Another theme of the evening by opponents of the recommendations was that the presence of the book in the district breaks federal obscenity laws. Sullivan mentioned the violation of the law in a part of her remarks, and board member Mash asked for clarification about obscenity laws in relation to the book. District legal counsel Nathan Fall answered the board members understood the standards on whether to accept the book or to reject the recommendation to be based on two considerations: educational suitability and pervasive vulgarity. Fall said he thought Sullivan’s reference to the breaking of federal laws was based on the Miller test from the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court case Miller vs. California. The items in the three-prong test to determine obscenity are: Fall said if all three points are met, there could be an obscenity law violation according to the Miller case. Fall said after the meeting the issue of obscenity in Miller relates to the work, or book, taken as a whole. “That is what Miller is looking at,” Fall said, adding state laws play a factor. “As far as I’m aware, I’ve never seen a district school board be charged with obscenity laws for upholding a book like ‘Beloved.'” Before the board began the appeal process, it accepted public comment from 14 district residents with the majority of the speakers addressing the book appeal item. Bruce Broderius, a former president of the District 6 board, was among the public speakers who advocated for the current board to do what it ultimately did — uphold the committee’s recommendation and Pilch’s support for the ruling. Broderius, a former Denver Public Schools teacher who served as District 6 board president for five years in the early 2000s, said “there is no difference between people who cannot read, people who refuse to read and people who refuse to think about what they read.” Earlier in its regular meeting Monday evening, the District 6 Board of Education unanimously approved a new salary schedule for District 6 teachers, allowing starting teachers to begin their careers at $48,000 under the master contract for the 2023-24 school year. The current salary for starting teachers in the district is $42,475. Colorado K-12 teachers are known for being paid less than peers in other states and compared with other workers with college degrees statewide, the latter according to a 2021 report from the education nonprofit Chalkbeat. The publication also reported in February starting teachers in Westminster public schools will earn nearly $61,000, which appears to be the highest in the state. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group