Home » Press Release 
6sense, the leading platform to revolutionize the way B2B organizations create, manage, and convert pipeline to revenue, today released results of the 6sense 2023 State of the BDR survey. Results found that 80% of Business Development Representatives (BDRs) are still achieving their sales quotas even though job conditions are harder. The findings are a part of 6sense’s fourth annual BDR Appreciation Week, March 20-24, 2023, to celebrate the role of BDRs in recognition of their undeniable grit and perseverance.
 
2023 State of the BDR Survey Results
 
In its third annual survey, 6sense Research also asked BDRs about their role, job performance, and how supported they felt in their roles. BDRs have maintained their performance levels from the previous year, with an average quota achievement of 80%. The results of the survey found that the role of a BDR is becoming increasingly difficult, with 46% of respondents reporting that securing meetings in their prospect accounts is more challenging than it was last year.
 
Additionally, 41% of BDRs are finding it harder to meet their sales targets than in the past, which could indicate a growing need for effective prospecting strategies and tools. Despite the challenges, BDRs are still required to meet or exceed their quotas, with 62% reporting that their sales targets have remained unchanged from the previous year, while 30% have indicated that their targets have increased.
 
“Responses from our BDR research emphasizes the need for sales leaders to re-evaluate their strategies and ensure that they are providing their sellers with the necessary resources and tools to succeed in their roles,” said Latane Conant, CMO at 6sense. “We recently launched 6sense Revenue AI™ for Sales to equip BDRs with a single platform for intelligence on their accounts and buying teams so they can light up the Dark Funnel, prioritize the best opportunities, and boost productivity. When BDRs spend less time researching they can invest more time engaging people who are likely to not just accept the call, but are happy to receive it.”
 
Results of the survey show that BDRs’ who feel supported, outperform their less-supported peers. In this year’s results, those who feel supported earned more quota than those who do not by 9%. This year, 64% of BDRs reported feeling supported, down 12% from just a year ago. Lower support scores can lead to weaker performance and higher attrition going forward.
 
To help them feel more supported in their jobs and improve productivity, BDRs cited better contact and intent data as the top two tools, according to survey results. Specifically, 48% of BDRs mentioned that access to better contact data and 46% stated that access to more intent data would significantly enhance their outreach efforts. While other tools like training, engagement tools, and account data were also mentioned, they ranked lower in importance.
 
Elevating BDRs
 
BDR Appreciation Week includes professional development and training opportunities to help eager sales representatives advance in their careers, along with some competition and fun. Events include:
 
Learn more:
 
About 6sense
 
6sense is on a mission to revolutionize the way B2B organizations create revenue by predicting customers most likely to buy and recommending the best course of action to engage anonymous buying teams. 6sense Revenue AI is the only sales and marketing platform to unlock the ability to create, manage and convert high-quality pipeline to revenue. Customers report 2X increases in average contract value, 4X increases in win rate and 20-40% reduction in time to close deals. Know everything, do anything, with 6sense.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230321005324/en/