Get our local education coverage delivered directly to your inbox. Randi Peavy describes her family's struggle to get equal access for her daughter, Bailey.  The two letters from the Omaha Public Schools arrived roughly a week before school began last month, upsetting what Maria Bolivar had expected to happen this year with her children’s education. Bolivar has three children attending Walnut Hill Elementary in northeast Omaha. The first letter told her that two of the three would have to leave Walnut Hill and move to a different building because their school had no special education teachers to serve them. The second letter said one of those two children, fifth grader Adrian, will receive speech therapy online instead of in person. Adrian, who has autism and ADHD, became one of roughly 1,200 students who will now have to receive virtual speech therapy because there aren’t enough speech language pathologists at OPS. On Thursday, the school board approved a $2.27 million contract with TeleTeachers, a Chicago-based online special education company, to provide the virtual services. Parents of affected children had received a letter and email Aug. 7 explaining the change in services. “We have worked with a number of agencies in Omaha and across the country to recruit SLPs (speech language pathologists), but are still not able to fill all of our positions,” Susan Christopherson, chief academic officer, wrote in the letter. “Your child will still receive those services at school. We are confident students will still receive high-quality services virtually.” The change is because of the district’s special education staff shortage, an issue that has only worsened in the years since the pandemic began. Bolivar said Adrian began receiving speech therapy from OPS before he entered kindergarten. He even had a pathologist that followed him from Martin Luther King Elementary to Walnut Hill to help him. “The special education services up until COVID were phenomenal,” Bolivar said. “It was ensured that he received the exact same education as everybody else. “But once COVID hit, the resource teachers were getting too much put on them. They had 40-kid case loads and I can’t even be upset with the three phenomenal resource professionals that we lost (at Walnut Hill) because of just being overworked and underpaid.” OPS started the school year with a shortage of 160 special education teachers. That’s an increase from last year’s shortfall of 129. The lack of teachers has caused higher caseloads for remaining staff and increases the difficulty for students to get the services they deserve. During the 2022-23 school year, OPS had to begin corrective action after an investigation from the Nebraska Department of Education found that the district had systemic noncompliance in meeting evaluation timelines and complying with ChildFind, a regulation that requires schools to timely identify, locate and evaluate all children with disabilities in Nebraska to provide services. A week before school began this year, district officials said they would move students who received special education at three North Omaha elementary schools, including Walnut Hill, to different buildings because there were no teachers to serve them. Bolivar decided to keep all three children at Walnut Hill anyway. Bolivar said she’s concerned about the shift to virtual speech therapy, partly because of the delayed start of services. In the letter, the district says that it anticipates the virtual services will be completely implemented by the end of September, meaning some students will miss out on therapy. “The Special Education office is tracking all service minutes missed and, once virtual services are implemented across the District, we will provide your student with compensatory services to make up for any missed minutes,” Christopherson said in the letter. “We are focused on immediate and long-term solutions. ... Our staff are parents, too. We understand that any change to how we deliver services may bring a range of emotions and questions. We are committed to ongoing communication with families.” Bolivar said Adrian already has a backlog of hundreds of hours of compensatory speech services due to him from OPS. “(Adrian) cannot read due to all the inconsistencies in services,” Bolivar said. District officials said that “staff work with families to create a plan to make up the hours owed.” The special education shortage at OPS has prompted the Nebraska Legislature’s education committee to hold a special session to discuss the problem Friday. Senators will convene at 1 p.m. in Room 1525 at the Capitol building. Nebraska's Marcus Washington (13) runs past Michigan's Keon Sabb (3) and Michigan's Will Johnson (2) during the second half of a college football game at Memorial Stadium in Lincoln on Saturday, Sept. 30, 2023. Michigan won the game 45-7. Millard South's Amarion Jackson (9) makes a catch after initially juggling the ball in the Millard South vs. Lincoln East football game at Lincoln East High School in Lincoln on Thursday, Sept. 28, 2023. Gretna's Blake Hawkins (5) watches his team in the Millard South vs. Gretna football game at Gretna High School on Friday, Sept. 15, 2023. Papillion-La Vista's Morgan Stock (21) is on deck in the Papillion-La Vista vs. Gretna softball Metro Conference championship game at Gretna High School on Monday, Sept. 11, 2023. Gretna won the title 4-1. Nebraska's Quinton Newsome (6) breaks up a pass thrown to Colorado's Travis Hunter (12) in the Nebraska vs. Colorado football game at Folsom Field in Boulder on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. Colorado won the game 36-14. Nebraska's Eleanor Dale (9) celebrates a goal during the second half at Hibner Stadium in Lincoln on Sunday, Sept. 10, 2023. St. Louis' Emily Puricelli (1) makes a save above Nebraska's Eleanor Dale (9) and St. Louis' Sophia Stram (28) during the first half at Hibner Stadium in Lincoln on Sunday, Sept. 10, 2023. Brooke Winsor draws on the sidewalk during the 5th Annual Chalk Art Festival in Omaha on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. Becky McMahon, an animal control officer with the Nebraska Humane Society, attempts to corral a loose dog on Sheffield Street in Omaha on Saturday, Sept. 2, 2023. Nebraska's Bergen Reilly (2) serves during the first set at the Devaney Center in Lincoln on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. Nebraska's Elliott Brown (41) jogs onto the field ahead of the Nebraska vs. Colorado football game at Folsom Field in Boulder on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. Nebraska's Alex Bullock (84) flips and can't catch the ball in the Nebraska vs. Colorado football game at Folsom Field in Boulder on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. Colorado won the game 36-14. Omaha Westside's Kenyan Cotton scores a touchdown in the second quarter against Bellevue West at Bellevue West on Friday, Sept. 8, 2023. Omaha Westside's Caleb Benning intercepts a pass intended for Bellevue West's Jordon Hurst at Bellevue West on Friday, Sept. 8, 2023. Nebraska's Harper Murray hits the ball past Creighton's Kiana Schmitt, center and Kendra Wait during the first set at the Devaney Center on Wednesday, Sept. 6, 2023. Wahoo's Lanta Hitz high-fives her teammates during pregame introductions before playing Bennington at Wahoo on Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2023. Andrew Pearey, left, and his fiancé Annarose Beebe, enjoy a ride with a panda bear they won earlier during Septemberfest at the CHI Health Center parking lot on Friday, Sept. 1, 2023. Papillion-La Vista South's Sam Schuler (7) leaps into the end zone to score during the second quarter in Papillion on Friday, Sept. 1, 2023. Millard South celebrates a sack on Elkhorn South quarterback Carson Rauner at Millard South on Friday, Sept. 1, 2023. Millard South's Dylan Kuhl rips the jersey of Elkhorn South's Jaydon Sutko while attempting to tackle him at Millard South on Friday, Sept. 1, 2023. Nebraska's Jeff Sims (7) passes the ball in the Nebraska vs. Minnesota football season opener at Huntington Bank Stadium in Minneapolis on Thursday, Aug. 31, 2023. Nebraska head coach Matt Rhule sneaks through his players before warm ups ahead of the Nebraska vs. Minnesota football season opener at Huntington Bank Stadium in Minneapolis on Thursday, Aug. 31, 2023. Get our local education coverage delivered directly to your inbox. K-12 Education Reporter   Randi Peavy describes her family's struggle to get equal access for her daughter, Bailey.  A critical shortage of special education bus drivers is causing the Omaha Public Schools to contract outside of its transportation union to fi… A week before school starts, the Omaha Public Schools still lacks classified staff and special education teachers. The district is short 160 s… Three elementary schools in the Omaha Public Schools district have zero special education teachers, so special education students at those sch… The Legislature's Education Committee grilled OPS officials about the district's staffing struggles, mainly focusing on the district's decisio… At Loup County High School in Taylor, Nebraska, Bailley Leibert is the sole member of the class of 2027. The Sandhills district has just 89 ki… Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.