Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Tuesday August 08, 2023 , 3 min Read Edtech firm ﻿BYJU'S﻿ and US-based investment fund Davidson Kempner Capital Management have reportedly initiated discussions to resolve their disagreement concerning a loan covenant breach tied to the former’s test prep unit Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL).  In May, the Bengaluru-based firm had raised $250 million (~Rs 2,000 crore) through structured instruments from Davidson Kempner against its shareholding in Aakash.   The Economic Times reported that BYJU’S has proposed to repay funds from the loan it used along with interest, while Davidson Kempner seeks extended interest on the entire amount for one to two years, differing from Byju Raveendran's quarter proposal.  From the loan, BYJU'S has received about Rs 800 crore, utilising over Rs 600 crore from the credit facility, the report noted.  The discussions will focus on the payout amount to be agreed upon, potentially settling in between, as Davidson Kempner aims to recover its funds from BYJU’S and conclude the matter, the report added.  YourStory has reached out to BYJU’S and Davidson Kempner for comments.  AESL’s minority stakeholders, Blackstone Group and the Chaudhry family, collectively own 30% of the test prep unit, while BYJU'S parent company, Think & Learn Pvt Ltd, holds 43%, and its founder, Byju Raveendran, maintains a 27% stake. Raveendran is said to have offered a portion of his equity in Aakash as collateral for the loan.  According to the report, Manipal Group chairman Ranjan Pai has concluded an approximately $80-million investment in Aakash, intended to repay Davidson Kempner, with Pai set to acquire a stake in Aakash from Raveendran.  In June, reports emerged that BYJU'S was seeking investors to divest a portion of its stake in Aakash. The Morning Context had reported that a consortium of investors, spearheaded by Pai, is engaged in talks to inject funds into Aakash.  Last week, Davidson Kempner reportedly initiated the reconstitution of the board of Aakash to improve governance after levelling allegations of financial misconduct against BYJU'S. It has inducted at least four new independent and nominee directors in the test prep unit.  Meanwhile, BYJU’S is also slated to convene discussions with lenders to formalise and execute new agreements for a $1.2-billion term loan B. BYJU’S and its lenders were expected to finalise a term loan amendment before August 3, 2023.  In June, the edtech company said the FY22 audit is expected to be completed by the end of September, while the FY23 audit is slated to be concluded by the end of December.  In FY21, the edtech giant reported a loss of Rs 4,564.38 crore, which was significantly larger than its FY20 loss of Rs 305.5 crore. Edited by Megha Reddy 1 2 What are the critical IPO risks that startups need to consider before going public
 3 Startup news and updates: Daily roundup (August 19, 2024) 4 Quick commerce chaos: Food safety at Blinkit's dark stores 5 This Mumbai-based D2C brand wants to be a one-stop-shop for ergonomic furniture The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.