Even the best lab-grown diamonds can stir up a bit of skepticism in shoppers—and for good reason. You might wonder: How can anything concocted in a laboratory compare to what’s organically found in nature? But with new technologies and sustainable practices, there are a lot of benefits to lab-created diamonds, which are very much “real.” Based on my extensive research, I determined the seven online retailers that offer the best lab-grown diamonds; my top pick overall is Blue Nile, which offers high-quality pieces at reasonable prices, along with complimentary ring resizing and polishing services. The best lab-grown diamonds come from top online retailers that put an emphasis on sustainability. Perhaps the biggest upside to choosing lab-grown is that there’s no mining involved, and many brands—including Vrai and Clean Origin—create these stones with renewable energy, leaving behind very little (or zero) emissions. To make my selections, I tapped into my own jewelry knowledge as both a fashion and gem expert; I also consulted with Ankur Daga, the founder and CEO of Angara, a leading online jeweler. In addition to recommending trusted retailers, I’ve selected standout pieces to buy—from timeless engagement rings to shimmering tennis bracelets—if you’re on the search for some sparkle.   Blue Nile  Price range: Pieces start at $365 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 30 days; full return policy | White-glove services: Complimentary ring resizing for 1 year; free polishing, cleaning, prong inspection every 6 months Blue Nile has been around for over 20 years, so it’s a trusted authority in an otherwise newer space. All of its loose diamonds are analyzed and graded for quality by the Gemological Institute of America (GIA), one of the most accurate labs in the diamond industry. Since the brand sells direct to consumer, it’s able to offer high-quality stones with low overhead costs and, as a result, attainable pricing. In addition to rings, Blue Nile also offers a gorgeous selection of bracelets, earrings and necklaces—its simple studs earned the top spot on our list of the best lab-grown diamond earrings. The brand provides plenty of opportunities for customization, so you can create a bespoke ring, pendant or earrings with lab-grown diamonds. For wedding rings, I love the French Pavé Diamond Eternity Ring; and for gifts, I’d suggest the half-carat diamond earrings or classic tennis bracelet. The prices are great and you get nice extras—like a free gift box and notecard with purchases.  The 2024 Forbes Vetted Best Product Awards are here: Explore our 150 top-recommended items across categories after extensive research and testing. James Allen Get 30% off JamesAllen lab grown diamonds (no coupon code needed). This promotion can also be combined with additional JamesAllen discount offers! Price range: Pieces start at $110 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 30 days; full return policy | White-glove services: Free engraving for rings, prong tightening, re-polishing; real-time diamond viewing with expert gemologist online  Located in the diamond district in New York, James Allen carries both natural and lab-grown diamonds. The jeweler is best known for its massive selection of stones in every cut, at every price point—it has an excellent reputation for quality, service and expertise. Plus, it offers a virtual service for custom-made rings, and you can inspect your diamonds in real time, with a 360-degree view and advice of an in-house gemologist. Typically, if you shop for lab-grown diamonds, you can get up to 30% more size for the same cost—which really helps maximize your budget. I can personally speak to the quality of the brand's pieces: I own a gorgeous pair of James Allen lab-grown stud earrings, which actually sparkle more than one of my natural diamond pairs. The White Gold Petite Pavé Cathedral Engagement Ring is a favorite for rings, and I’d also recommend the diamond pendant and blossom tennis necklace. Grown Brilliance Price range: Pieces start at $170 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 45 days of ship date; full return policy | White-glove services: Design your own ring, necklace, bracelet or earrings; price match guarantee Grown Brilliance sources all of its lab-grown diamonds directly from trusted diamond growers, and sends them directly to a manufacturing facility that works exclusively on Grown Brilliance jewelry. There, expertly trained artisans customize your piece—in addition to engagement rings, you can also customize earrings, necklaces and bracelets—or you can shop the ready-to-ship pieces, including diamond studs, solitaire pendants and bangles.  I love the convenience of being able to shop both pre-set and custom-designed jewelry, since it can be overwhelming to know where to start. If you decide to go the pre-set route, the brand partnered with wedding designer Badgley Mischka on a jewelry collection that’s truly one of a kind and very special. Vrai Price range: Pieces start at $125 | Shipping and returns: $10 flat rate for 2-day shipping. Free returns for in-stock jewelry under $700 within 30 days of delivery; full return policy | White-glove services: 1 complimentary ring resizing (up or down one full size), virtual appointments Known for its commitment to sustainability, Vrai exclusively works with lab-grown diamonds. Stones are created in its zero-emissions diamond foundry, which is based in the Pacific Northwest and run on 100% hydropower. Leonardo DiCaprio is an investor in this forward-thinking jeweler, and all lab-grown diamonds come with certification that includes country of origin (not all brands offer this), along with a lifetime warranty.  Aside from preserving the environment, Vrai prides itself in hand-chiseled and polished diamonds by artisans. The attention to detail shows: Vrai’s diamonds have some of the best, sparkling cuts on the market. Some of my favorites include the knife-edge solitaire setting, solitaire studs and tennis bracelet. I also like how transparent the brand is about prices and policies, which are listed right on every product page. Ritani Price range: Loose lab diamonds start at $50 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 30 days of delivery; full return policy | White-glove services: Free FedEx pick-up from your home or office for returns; free lifetime care and cleanings New York-based Ritani lets you start with your choice of diamond (lab-grown or natural) and shape, including classic options like round, cushion and princess cuts. The family-owned jeweler is transparent about pricing, giving a breakdown of costs, and also analyzes the prices of nearly 200,000 diamonds on the market daily. If a comparable diamond in its inventory has a lower price from another jeweler, it’s price matched. Ritani’s Petite 6-Prong Knife-Edge Solitaire Engagement Ring is one of its most popular items, and it’s stunning and classic. I also love the bezel-set diamond bar necklace and eternity hoop earrings. Clean Origin Price range: Pieces start at $225 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 100 days; full return policy | White-glove services: Virtual appointments; complimentary ring resizing for standard ring styles with free shipping both ways; ready-to-ship styles Co-founded by Alexander Weindling, a third-generation diamond jeweler, Clean Origin works with exclusively lab-grown diamonds, using chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and high pressure high temperature (HPHT) techniques, as well as recycled metals whenever possible. All engagement rings come with a lifetime manufacturing warranty against defects, and center stones are fully certified by an independent diamond grading laboratory.  You can design a custom ring, or shop the ready-to-ship rings that arrive within a few days. My personal favorite is the Solon Ring—it catches the light every time you move your hand. Clean Origin also sells men’s diamond rings and bridal sets, which are gorgeous and very well priced. With Clarity Price range: Pieces start at $324 | Shipping and returns: Free shipping and returns within 30 days of order date; full return policy | White-glove services: Free engraving or any band or diamond ring; Home Preview service; 1 free resizing within 30 days of purchase With Clarity works alongside a team of independently certified gemologists to help you create a unique ring: Start with a stone (conflict-free or lab-grown diamonds), setting or ring style from the many options, or shop pre-set rings and put your own spin on the design. It’s sometimes to tricky to filter by lab-grown diamond styles, but you can also narrow the selection by category (earrings, necklaces) and then price (the most affordable options are lab-grown). Still undecided? With the Home Preview service, you can try on two sample rings at home, customized for carat, shape and metal, which are 3-D printed and shipped to you. The brand offers more than 8,000 ways to customize a ring, and you can keep the samples for three days. At Forbes Vetted, we have published numerous jewelry stories, including guides to the best places to buy engagement rings and the best jewelry stores online.   The Forbes Vetted team spent hours researching top lab-grown diamond companies, considering factors such as the overall quality, range of styles, customer service, shipping and return policies and white-glove services that guarantee an excellent shopping experience.   To separate fact from fiction about lab-grown diamonds, we asked Daga to weigh in on some commonly asked questions. Below, we’ve summarized everything you need to know about lab-grown diamonds. Lab-grown diamonds are chemically, optically and physically identical to natural, earth-mined diamonds. However, while natural diamonds take millions of years to form, lab-grown diamonds are grown within weeks in a laboratory using cutting-edge technology that mimics the conditions in which natural diamonds are formed in the earth. There are two main processes which are used to create lab-grown diamonds:   There are a few factors that go into choosing lab-grown diamonds, including:   Lab-grown diamonds are certified and graded using the same scale as natural diamonds. Independent gemological laboratories clearly mark the origin of lab-grown diamonds on the certificate, often inscribing the girdle of the stone itself as “laboratory-grown.” They assess the quality of lab-grown diamonds based on the well-established 4 Cs criteria: Carat, Color, Clarity and Cut. These certifications provide valuable information about the diamond's characteristics and quality. Just like natural diamonds, lab-grown diamonds can range from flawless to having various degrees of inclusions or blemishes. Because lab-grown diamonds are created in a controlled environment, they have fewer inclusions compared to natural diamonds. This is because the growth conditions in a lab can be more controlled than the natural processes that create inclusions in diamonds formed deep within the earth. However, lab-grown diamonds can still have a range of clarity grades and color variation if they are grown too rapidly or if there are traces of other elements. Thus, while a flawless lab-grown diamond is not guaranteed, inclusions can be minimized. No. Lab-grown diamonds typically have a much lower market value than natural diamonds with similar characteristics. In recent times, the supply of lab-grown diamonds has increased substantially. As a result, their prices are in steady decline. So, while they make a great value proposal in terms of getting more for your budget, they do not make good investment pieces. Consumers looking for something truly rare and as an asset should purchase a natural diamond.  Yes. If cut and faceted identically, a lab-grown diamond will exhibit the same stunning sparkle as a natural one. After all, they both have identical carbon crystal lattice structures giving them their unique ability to disperse light and create brilliance and fire. The cut is the main factor which determines how much a diamond sparkles. A poorly cut diamond, whether natural or lab-grown, may not display the same level of brilliance and sparkle as a well-cut diamond. 