By Emily Scrivener For Mailonline   Published:  05:40 EDT, 3 February 2023   |  Updated:  06:04 EDT, 9 February 2023      16 View  comments  SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.    With just over a week and a half to go until Valentine's Day, accessibly-priced fine jewellery brand Mejuri is here to give you a gentle reminder that you don't have to wait for someone to buy you diamonds. Now through to 7 February, Mejuri is hosting its first-ever Diamond Week Sale with 15 per cent off all diamond pieces - no code needed. Starting today through February 7, shoppers can get 15 per cent off diamond earrings, necklaces, bracelets, and other solid-gold bestsellers at checkout From pave diamond studs, necklaces, stacking rings and diamond letter pendants, the celebrity-loved brand, which counts Emily Ratajkowski and Bella Hadid as fans, is giving you a chance to treat yourself to some timeless pieces.  The Mejuri Diamond Week sale includes some hero pieces that aren't to be missed, including the Pavé Diamond Slim Signet, Large Pave Diamond Round Necklace and the Round Diamond Studs - now with £75 off.  One of Mejuri's bestsellers, this slim signet ring is beautifully designed with 14k solid gold and responsibly sourced diamonds.  Made to last forever, this delicate ring will not oxidize or discolour, so you can wear your jewellery every day. Mix, match or stack these together, this Wishbone Stacker Set is versatile and handcrafted in 14k solid gold and one set with pavé diamonds.  Another Mejuri's bestseller, the Diamond Letter Charm which would make a wonderful personalised gift for someone, or a treat for yourself.  Made in 14k solid gold, the alloy gives it a beautiful hue, while the high-quality diamonds add a dose of subtle sparkle.  Another item that's classified for everyday wear but still is special enough for gifting is these Pavé Diamond Round Studs. Timeless, these have been made in a 14k solid gold set with 40 high-quality single-cut diamonds in a pavé setting. Layered dainty pieces that transition easily from day to night and work equally as well at work or play are what the brand specialises in. And this Large Pave Diamond Round Necklace is no exception, made with 41 high-quality single-cut diamonds. Hoops are a classic, but these Pavé Diamond Bold Huggie Hoops elevate the everyday staple. A fan favourite, these huggie hoops are handcrafted in 14k solid gold, so you can sweat and shower in them.  The open design makes this ring stand out even when stacked with your favourites. Designed with 0.03 carat Kimberly Process diamonds, it's a striking piece - and now on sale with £26.70 off.   Inspired by the endearing signoff, the XO edition would make for a wonderful Valentine's Day gift for yourself or a loved one.   One of four pieces, the Pavé Diamond X Hoop Earrings are handcrafted in 14k solid gold and set with responsibly sourced pavé diamonds.  15% off all diamonds at #Mejuri this week - run don’t walk to the 🔗 in our profile 💎💎💎 #diamonds #jewellery #mejuripartner #mejurihaul #mejurisale  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group