The Diamonds head to the Lowland League side in a third round SPFL Trust Trophy tie Get the latest news from Record Sport with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Record Sport with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Airdrie player-boss Rhys McCabe admits he will rest some player for today's SPFL Trust Trophy clash away to Stirling University - but insists the Diamonds won't underestimate their Lowland League opponents. The Students will need to bridge a three-tier gap when the Championship side come calling to Forthbank in a third round tie, and McCabe's men will be huge favourites to seal their spot in Thursday's fourth round draw. Airdrie have a tricky trip to Arbroath next weekend in the league to think about and McCabe will have one eye on keeping his squad in the best possible shape for that, but he will give Uni the respect they deserve. He told the club website: "“It’s a good opportunity - we’ve been a wee bit unfortunate in terms of having boys who have played 90 minutes of every single game - so it’s a possibility to give a rest to those boys.  “Subs have come on in recent weeks and had a real impact, so it’s a good chance for them to train well this week and hopefully get the opportunity to go and get some minutes.  “The big message this week will be about mentality. "We treat this game like every game, we give them the respect that they’re due, but we make sure that we apply ourselves and we do our homework.”  Striker Gabby McGill echoed his gaffer as he looks to add to his one goal in six appearance so far this season. He said: "That’ll be what hopefully University of Stirling will be thinking, that we’ll come and be complacent, but I think we’ve had those types of games before - Bonnyrigg was one of them, where it was ours to lose.  “We put in a professional performance and got the the job done, and I’m expecting nothing less. We’ll treat it as any normal week, still train as hard as we always do and prepare as well as we always do, and come Saturday everyone will be bang on it.  “I don’t think there’s any chance of complacency.”  McCabe remains sidelined in his comeback from a knee injury, while Aaron Taylor-Sinclair is way on international duty with Antigua and Barbuda. Follow Lanarkshire Live Sport onTwitter via@LanLiveSport, like us onFacebookor find us onInstagramfor the latest sports news, pictures and video. 