US: The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether baby-formula makers colluded on bids for attractive state contracts, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday. The FTC is looking into whether Abbott Laboratories and other formula manufacturers have "engaged in collusion or coordination with any other market participant regarding the bidding", the WSJ report said, citing documents posted to FTC's website. The Journal added that the antitrust agency is also investigating whether company coordination affected sales more broadly, outside of the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) formula-supply program. The FTC has sought information from Nestle, which makes the Good Start line of infant formulas, a company spokeswoman told the Journal, adding that the Swiss manufacturer has responded to the FTC. FTC, Abbott, and Nestle did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment. In February, Abbott said it received a civil investigative demand from the FTC related to a probe of the companies participating in bids for WIC formula contracts. Read also: Abbott gets FTC notice for information on infant formula products   Ruchika Sharma joined Medical Dialogue as an Correspondent for the Business Section in 2019. She covers all the updates in the Pharmaceutical field, Policy, Insurance, Business Healthcare, Medical News, Health News, Pharma News, Healthcare and Investment. She has completed her B.Com from Delhi University and then pursued postgraduation in M.Com. She can be contacted at editorial@medicaldialogues.in Contact no. 011-43720751 Editorial Prediabetes in India: Sugary Iceberg and Place of Metformin to Mitigate it Prediabetes in India: Navigating the Sugary Crisis with DCGI-Approved Metformin LENS trial a first of its kind large scale trial shows striking 27% reduction in diabetic... The Role of Aspirin in Reducing ASCVD Mortality Among Adults with High Lp(a) Concentrations API- ICP issue practical guidelines for doctors for management of Hypertension in patients with Type... Journal Club  Today The Role of Probiotics in Prenatal Health: Study Sheds Light on Benefits for Moms and Babies Health News Today Health Bulletin 17/ August/ 2024