



 



 

 Coherus Biosciences and AbbVie agree to resolve a dispute regarding Coherus’ partnership with the Mark Cuban Cost Plus Drug Company and an adalimumab biosimilar, and Celltrion and Bio-Thera Solutions expand their respective partnerships to include more biosimilar products. Coherus Biosciences and AbbVie agree to resolve a dispute regarding Coherus’ partnership with the Mark Cuban Cost Plus Drug Company regarding its adalimumab biosimilar, and Celltrion Healthcare and Bio-Thera Solutions expand their respective partnerships to include more biosimilar products.  Coherus, AbbVie Dispute  According to a report from Reuters, Coherus Biosciences and AbbVie have agreed to resolve their dispute over Coherus’ new partnership with the Mark Cuban Cost Plus Drug Company to sell its adalimumab biosimilar, Yusimry, which references AbbVie’s Humira (reference adalimumab).  Cost Plus Drugs is an online pharmacy created by SharkTank’s Mark Cuban to offer generic drugs at significant discounts. Earlier in June, the pharmacy announced that it would partner with Coherus Biosciences to bring Yusimry to patients at $569.27 plus dispensing and shipping fees, marking the first time that Cost Plus Drugs has added a biosimilar to its list of prescriptions.  However, AbbVie alleged that the partnership infringed on a previous agreement between the company and Coherus that granted the latter a nonexclusive license to commercialize Yusimry in the United States beginning July 1, 2023. In response, Coherus filed a restraining order against AbbVie to keep it from terminating the licensing deal.  AbbVie followed by filing a preliminary injnction against Coherus. However, the companies have agreed to leave the licensing deal as is.  Adalimumab products are used to treat several immunology conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriatic arthritis, idiopathic arthritis, uveitis, and hidradenitis suppurativa.  Expanded Global Partnerships  Celltrion is expanding its partnership with Rani Therapeutics to develop RT-105, an orally administered adalimumab biosimilar. Under the new license and supply agreement, Celltrion will supply its biosimilar CT-P17 (Yuflyma) to develop RT-105 and Rani has the exclusive development and commercialization rights for the oral candidate. Following a phase 1 study, Celltrion will acquire the global rights to RT-105.  “We are pleased to build upon our existing partnership with Rani, a company that is pioneering oral drug delivery across a broad range of injectable therapeutics. The cooperation between our companies allows each of us to pursue our commitment to delivering effective and convenient medicines, which in time could benefit healthcare systems, providers and patients,” said SungHyun Kim, head of Celltrion’s medical science division.  The partnership builds on Rani’s oral delivery technology known as RaniPill capsule and is applying it to a tumor necrosis factor-alpha antibody, such as adalimumab, for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. The California-based company is also working on using the RaniPill capsule with an ustekinumab biosimilar (RT-111). The hope is that the technology can address the unmet need for oral biologic therapies.  Additionally, Bio-Thera Solutions expanded its partnership with Biomm in Brazil for the development and commercialization of BAT2206, an ustekinumab product referencing Stelara. Under the agreement, Biomm will have exclusive distribution and marketing rights to the biosimilar in Brazil.  The partnership was initiated around a licensing and supply agreement for Biomm to commercialize BAT1706, a bevacizumab biosimilar referencing Avastin, in Brazil.  Bio-Thera has completed a phase 1 study assessing the safety of BAT2206 and is currently conducting a phase 3 global trail evaluating the biosimilar compared to the reference product. Bio-Thera said that it intends to file for regulatory approval with the China National Medical Products Administration, the European Medicines Agency, and FDA, but Biomm will be responsible for filing the dossier in Brazil.  “Bio-Thera is pleased to expand our partnership with Biomm to commercialize our ustekinumab biosimilar program in Brazil…. By expanding our partnership with Biomm, Bio-Thera is doubling its commitment to providing Brazilian patients with increased access to important biotherapeutics at affordable prices,” said Shengfeng Li, PhD, CEO of Bio-Thera. Patent Dance Insights: A Q&A on Reducing Legal Battles in the Biosimilar Landscape In an interview, Ha Kung Wong, an intellectual property attorney, explained that the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 provides a structured but optional "patent dance" for biosimilars, which helps streamline patent disputes, potentially reducing litigation and encouraging early settlements, while ongoing legislative efforts may impact the biosimilar sector. Biosimilars in America: Overcoming Barriers and Maximizing Impact Join us as we explore the complexities of the US biosimilars market, discussing legislative influences, payer and provider adoption factors, and strategies to overcome industry challenges with expert insights from Kyle Noonan, PharmD, MS, value & access strategy manager at Cencora.






 No Differences in Long-Term Drug Survival Between Biosimilar, Originator TNF Inhibitors An analysis of subcutaneous biosimilar and originator tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors for rheumatic diseases found no significant differences in survival or discontinuation rates due to inefficacy or adverse events, with biosimilars showing lower overall discontinuation rates and higher retention rates. Breaking Barriers in Osteoporosis Care: New Denosumab Biosimilars Wyost, Jubbonti Approved In this episode, The Center for Biosimilars® delves into the FDA approval of the first denosumab biosimilars, Wyost and Jubbonti (denosumab-bbdz), and discuss their potential to revolutionize osteoporosis treatment with expert insights from 2 rheumatologists.
 Vizient Report Projects Price Inflation for Originators With Biosimilars in the Pipeline Products in line to face biosimilar competition are projected to increase their list prices in advance, according to Vizient’s Pharmacy Market Outlook Report for Summer 2024. CT-P13 Shows Similar Effectiveness, Safety in Biologic-Naive Patients With Crohn Disease Celltrion’s infliximab biosimilar CT-P13 demonstrates similar effectiveness and safety to the originator in biologic-naive patients with Crohn disease in a retrospective, real-world study in Japan.  Patent Dance Insights: A Q&A on Reducing Legal Battles in the Biosimilar Landscape In an interview, Ha Kung Wong, an intellectual property attorney, explained that the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 provides a structured but optional "patent dance" for biosimilars, which helps streamline patent disputes, potentially reducing litigation and encouraging early settlements, while ongoing legislative efforts may impact the biosimilar sector. Biosimilars in America: Overcoming Barriers and Maximizing Impact Join us as we explore the complexities of the US biosimilars market, discussing legislative influences, payer and provider adoption factors, and strategies to overcome industry challenges with expert insights from Kyle Noonan, PharmD, MS, value & access strategy manager at Cencora.






 No Differences in Long-Term Drug Survival Between Biosimilar, Originator TNF Inhibitors An analysis of subcutaneous biosimilar and originator tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors for rheumatic diseases found no significant differences in survival or discontinuation rates due to inefficacy or adverse events, with biosimilars showing lower overall discontinuation rates and higher retention rates. Breaking Barriers in Osteoporosis Care: New Denosumab Biosimilars Wyost, Jubbonti Approved In this episode, The Center for Biosimilars® delves into the FDA approval of the first denosumab biosimilars, Wyost and Jubbonti (denosumab-bbdz), and discuss their potential to revolutionize osteoporosis treatment with expert insights from 2 rheumatologists.
 Vizient Report Projects Price Inflation for Originators With Biosimilars in the Pipeline Products in line to face biosimilar competition are projected to increase their list prices in advance, according to Vizient’s Pharmacy Market Outlook Report for Summer 2024. CT-P13 Shows Similar Effectiveness, Safety in Biologic-Naive Patients With Crohn Disease Celltrion’s infliximab biosimilar CT-P13 demonstrates similar effectiveness and safety to the originator in biologic-naive patients with Crohn disease in a retrospective, real-world study in Japan.  2 Commerce Drive Cranbury, NJ 08512 609-716-7777