NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Tammy Abraham has refused to rule out a potential return to Chelsea amid speculation over his Roma future. The England international was given his chance at Stamford Bridge by Frank Lampard after a series of promising loan spells.  Abraham, however, failed to fully convince Thomas Tuchel he was worthy of being the club’s main striker and was sold to Roma in a £34million deal. The 25-year-old initially thrived under the management of Jose Mourinho and scored an impressive 27 goals in his debut campaign. Abraham has found the going far tougher this term, however, scoring just seven goals from 39 appearances in all competitions.  Despite spending heavily on a raft of new forwards since his departure, meanwhile, Chelsea are still to source a regular supplier of goals. Joao Felix has impressed only sporadically since his loan move from Atletico Madrid and although Napoli’s prolific Victor Osimhen is a firm target, Chelsea will face intense competition for his signature this summer.  And Abraham, who has an €80m buyback clause in his contract, would not dismiss the notion of a return to his boyhood club. He told Four Four Two: ‘Never say never in football. Right now, my focus is on Roma — I’ve no other plans. Maybe I’ll stay at Roma for the next ten years, maybe not. You never know.’ Another former Chelsea No.9, Chris Sutton, believes Abraham would be the perfect addition to Graham Potter’s already impressive looking squad. ‘Tammy Abraham is an out and out No.9 and Chelsea decided to let him go,’ Sutton told Betting Sites. Gary Lineker urges Arsenal to sign Premier League star after opening weekend Brentford set price for Arsenal, Chelsea and Man Utd to sign Ivan Toney Frank Leboeuf names Chelsea's worst player against Man City who wasn't 'ready to fight' Real Sociedad manager sends defiant message to Arsenal over Mikel Merino transfer ‘That was a bit of a strange one, but of course they expected Lukaku to come in and have a stormer which he didn’t do. ‘Buying Tammy back is one of those that I could see happening. I think he’s done pretty well at Roma. The criticism of Chelsea is that while they have lots of creative players, they don’t actually have somebody to stick the ball in the net.‘So I actually think £68m would be a smart piece of business to bring Tammy Abraham back to Chelsea.’ 

	MORE : Chelsea assistant coach Anthony Barry keen on joining Thomas Tuchel at Bayern Munich

 

	MORE : Chelsea should re-sign Tammy Abraham in £68m transfer, says Chris Sutton

 For more stories like this, check our sport page. Follow Metro Sport for the latest news on 
Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Chelsea news, exclusives and analysis  Get us in your feed