Comment Travel is back on the agenda after a COVID-19 hiatus, and today a mobile startup is announcing a healthy round of funding to capitalize on that. Airalo — which uses software-based eSIM connectivity to provide a wide range of lower-cost mobile data packages, nearly 700 in all, for international travelers — has raised $60 million in a Series B round that it will be using to expand its business. The all-equity round, which values Airalo — founded in Singapore, officially HQ’d in Delaware with offices in many other places, including Toronto — at $280 million post-money, includes a long list of financial and strategic backers, a mix that speaks to who works with the startup as a business partner as a complement to their own direct operations. e& Capital, the venture arm of e& (better known as the UAE-based carrier Etisalat), is leading the round with participation also from startup ‘generator’ Antler Elevate, Liberty Global, Rakuten Capital, Singtel Innov8, Surge (the early-stage fund run by Peak XV, formerly known as Sequoia Capital India and SEA), Orange, T Capital (the venture arm of Deutsche Telecom), KPN Ventures, Telefónica Ventures and I2BF Global Ventures. GO Ventures and LG Technology Ventures are two other previous backers that were in its Series A. This fundraise is a big step up for the company, which had previously raised just $7.3 million. Although Airalo’s only just closed the round, the company is currently on a strong growth rate — 20% revenue growth month on month, with nearly 1 million downloads monthly for the past three months. And from what we understand, that’s leading to further interest from other potential investors. There are already discussions to bring extra backers on at a considerably higher valuation of between $800 million and $1 billion. Launched in 2019, Airalo is one of a group of eSIM providers that have received an injection of life thanks to handset makers like Apple promoting the software-based standard as an easier way for users to move from one mobile carrier to another, doing away with requiring customers to physically change the small SIM card in their phones. eSIM has been both a blessing and curse: It means carriers might have a better chance of wooing away customers from their current providers, but it also means it’s harder to lock in the customers they have. Overall, for consumers it’s a huge win, since it means mobile operators have to be a lot more creative and competitive to win business. And that’s where Airalo has been showing promise. After a very slow start due to the pandemic when COO Abraham Burak said growth basically “stalled” for two years, it started to pick up momentum in 2022. Although carriers these days have become more savvy with building and offering travelers more cost-effective mobile data plans, many of these tend not to be as flexible, and thus cheap, as what consumers want or need. eSIM offerings promise an alternative: more granular offerings at smaller pricing increments. Currently Airalo says that it has 5.1 million customers buying its eSIM products. These products are presented in a matrix of combinations covering some 200 countries, geographic regions, service durations and data package sizes — in all currently totally 689 different combinations. “We are seeing exponential growth in signups because travel is picking up,” said Burak, who co-founded the company with Bahadir Ozdemir (the CEO). Burak and Airalo overall refers to this matrix of eSIM plans as its “marketplace.” That appears not to be a reference to multiple eSIM providers — Airalo is the only one selling to users — but to the large bazaar of carriers and carrier plans underpinning the deals. Behind the scenes, Airalo builds out its many eSIM options by way of a network of carrier agreements that it brokers and then stitches together across the globe, some involving direct capacity purchased on a wholesale basis, and others involving reselling international roaming plans already structured by individual mobile carriers. Airalo has also built technology that measures demand and corresponding costs and pricing for these different eSIM packages. If you are asking yourself, why would a carrier work with a third party like Airalo, which might compete directly against it? It’s for the same reason that a brand might sell through many retailers while also selling goods directly through its own-branded storefronts: If a customer is already looking somewhere else for a good mobile roaming plan before traveling, chances are the carrier has already lost that customer. Cutting a deal with Airalo gives that carrier a chance — albeit one at a smaller margin — to still win some business. It’s enough of an opportunity that Burak said that there have been acquisition approaches already from the carrier world. That’s not to say that all eSIM providers are swimming in opportunity, or necessarily capitalizing on it just yet. Another big name in the space, Truphone, which had raised hundreds of millions of dollars, recently faced a period of significant turbulence when its biggest shareholder, Roman Abramovich, was slapped with international sanctions over his connections to Russia and he and other Russian shareholders were forced to sell their holdings in the company. Despite some very interesting deals it had on the books, including services to banks and a partnership with Apple, Truphone had never made a profit in 15 years of operations, so its sale and its future definitely looked uncertain. It look almost a whole year, but in the end Truphone was sold for £1 to two entrepreneurs, German businessman and tech entrepreneur Hakan Koç and former telecoms executive and private equity investor Pyrros Koussios, who pledged to invest more into the business and to expand the kinds of services it offers to enterprise customers. (Indeed, stitching together data connectivity as an eSIM provider is not that far in concept from privacy-focused VPNs, which is something Truphone was already building for business customers, and may have been one of the interesting services that caught the eye of its Russian oligarch former owners.) On that note, the idea of expanding what else an eSIM company can be providing to its customers beyond basic data is something that it seems Airalo is also taking on board, too. One new service it will be using the funding to help introduce is “Airalo Partners,” which it describes as “an innovative connectivity solution tailored to businesses and organizations across the globe.” UAE has a number of international expat residents and itself has a population that is widely traveled, so it makes sense that an eSIM provider caught e&’s eye as an interesting investment opportunity. “We are pleased to lead the Series B financing round for Airalo, a company that has come a long way over the past 18 months with a focus on providing exceptional customer experience,” said Kushal Shah, managing director, e& capital, in a statement. “We have complete confidence in Airalo’s ability to expand its user community, strengthen its diverse team, and introduce its latest product Airalo Partners, a groundbreaking connectivity solution for global businesses and organizations. We believe that Airalo has the potential to become a travel essential and are excited to support their journey towards becoming the definitive gateway to instant connectivity worldwide.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Powered by WordPress VIP