
					By Lynette Rice  Senior TV Writer 
EXCLUSIVE: WME has promoted Amanda Hacohen and Abe Cohen Hoffing to Partner in the Scripted Television department. 
	Hacohen focuses on representing writers, directors, comedians, and growing companies for comedy creators such as Greg Daniels and Mike Judge (Bandera Entertainment), Andrew Goldberg (Brutus Pink), Rob McElhenney (More Better Productions), David Wain, and John Hamburg. Hacohen also signed Saturday Night Live breakout talent Please Don’t Destroy – a comedy trio consisting of Ben Marshall, John Higgins and Martin Herlihy – whose film, produced by Judd Apatow will premiere this summer. 

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					2024 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming		
			















	News
	



	
		
					Filipina-Led Reality Show 'Manila Matriarchs' Confirms Cast, Includes Singer-Actress Karylle Tatlonghari-Yuzon		
			





 
	Other clients include Anna Drezen (SNL, Praise Petey), Punkie Johnson (SNL), Joel Kim Booster (Fire Island, Loot), Byron Wu (The Brothers Sun), Nicole Byer (Grand Crew, Nailed It), and Shiva Baby writer/director Emma Seligman and actor/writer Rachel Sennott, whose sophomore film Bottoms premieres this spring. Hacohen continues to be based in the agency’s Beverly Hills office.

 
	Cohen Hoffing specializes in representing filmmakers including Deborah Chow (Obi-Wan Kenobi), Owen Harris (Black Mirror, Mrs. Davis), Olivia Newman (Where the Crawdads Sing, The Last Thing He Told Me), Rudy Mancuso (Musica), and Karen Maine (Rosaline, Starstruck). Having built overall deals for top level talent on the international stage, Cohen Hoffing works with global players such as Gaz Alazraki (Club de Cuervos), Tony Ayres (Clickbait), and David Heyman (Apples Never Fall). Cohen Hoffing also works with established creators such as Al Gough and Miles Millar (Wednesday) and is also shepherding the next generation of showrunner talent including Elgin James (Mayans M.C.), Janine Nabers (Swarm), and Jim Hecht (The Big Cigar, Winning Time). He is based in the agency’s Beverly Hills office. 
	“Abe’s dogged advocacy and grit have been a huge asset to our team, while Amanda’s focus and taste have produced impressive results, especially in the comedy realm,” said WME’s Scripted Television department Co-Heads Erin Junkin and Tom Wellington. “We look forward to their continued success and leadership as partners.” 
	WME’s scripted TV agents have been responsible for recent breakouts like Wednesday, House of the Dragon, and Only Murders in the Building.

	








 Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	