NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A fire onboard the USS Abraham Lincoln has injured 9 sailors, the US Navy said. The fire broke out on Tuesday morning on the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier operating about 30 miles off the coast of California. Sailors were able to quickly determine the location of the fire and extinguish it, but not before nine unidentified sailors were injured in the blaze.  It is currently unclear how the fire started. The cause of the fire is currently being investigated by Navy personnel. The injured sailors were treated onboard the ship, which will be staying at sea after the incident. At least six sailors were being treated for dehydration. The Navy has not reveal the injuries of the other 3 sailors at this time. ‘At this time, there are no plans for the Lincoln to return to its homeport due to the fire,’ fleet spokesperson Lt Samuel Boyle told Metro.co.uk. ‘This is what the crew trains for, and they responded quickly and effectively,’ Lt Boyle said. Woman who died 'entangled' in airport baggage system pictured and identified as missionary Injured cheerleader dies after parents 'treated her with smoothies and vitamins' Missing girl's mom 'kidnapped and hid her in religious cult compound' Donald Trump posts fake AI Taylor Swift endorsement images The Abraham Lincoln is part of the US 3rd Fleet, which based in San Diego. About 5,000 sailors are onboard the aircraft carrier. This is not the first issue the Navy has faced in southern California this year. On June 4, a Navy fighter pilot from Lemoore Naval Air Station near San Diego died after his jet crashed in the middle of the desert. Just days later on June 8, an Osprey fixed-wing aircraft out of the El Centro Naval Air Station crashed in the California desert, killing five Navy airmen. Finally on June 9, a helicopter out of the same air station near San Diego crashed in the same part of the desert. The crew of four airmen luckily survived the incident. Got a story? Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. Or you can submit your videos and pictures here. For more stories like this, check our news page. Follow Metro.co.uk on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news updates. You can now also get Metro.co.uk articles sent straight to your device. Sign up for our daily push alerts here.   Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed