0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Click on the image to watch the TVC Guardian Healthcare, the master franchise partner for GNC in India, teamed up with actor John Abraham for the “No Compromise” campaign. The campaign comprises of four films communicating the impact on fitness results in the absence of the right supplements. The objective is to highlight to fitness and wellness conscious consumers the idea that “No Compromise” should be applied to both the supplements they take and the results they earn.  In the new campaign, Abraham nudges fitness enthusiasts towards a “No Compromise” approach for their routines and fitness supplements so they can achieve the desired results. This initiative is designed to inspire and persuade people to use science:backed solutions and not settle for anything but the best. The wellness campaign highlights the efficacy of the research:backed formulations in the GNC portfolio so consumers do not have to compromise on their wellness. “Today, many consumers are exposed to multiple health and wellness products and brands but not all have enough research or experience to deliver solutions that genuinely create results,” Abraham said. “I trust the cutting edge, nutritional science backed solutions GNC brings, built on a strong legacy, superior quality and innovation. I am delighted to be a partner with GNC India and pledge to inspire India to adopt the “No Compromise” approach to health and fitness supplements.” Ashutosh Taparia, MD, Guardian Healthcare, mentioned, “We are thoroughly delighted to have a long:standing partnership with Mr Abraham. Being an icon and inspiration for many in health and fitness, John has always lived by the approach of “No Compromise” when it comes to health and fitness products. He is synonymous with discipline, commitment and fitness which are values GNC and its consumers across India believe in.” Ankit Kapor, CMO, Ananta Capital, added, “The campaign comes from a simple insight that when you compromise on your nutrition, you compromise on your health and wellbeing. GNC, with more than 87 years of experience, has science:backed formulations and innovations that have earned the trust of consumers across the globe. We believe it is our responsibility to deliver world class products where there is “No Compromise” on the quality, ingredients and therefore the results for the consumers.”  Credits: Agency: Korra Worldwide • CEO: Gaurav Nabh • CCO: Deepak Kumar • Creative team: Himanshu Himthani, Rohit Gite, Akshay Dhingra, Sanyam Sharma, Vinnie Verma, Bijoy Labuktongbam • Client Servicing: Mehak Mittal, Akshita Kakkar, Jhanvi Midha • Planning: Abhijit Sharma • Business Development: Karan Arora Production House: Ignition Films Producers: Archana Iyer and Partha Sarkar Director: Ken Rolston Info@BestMediaInfo.com  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    