MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  COMMENTARY It was only a matter of time: Governments want a say on the regulation of generative AI and chatbots such as GPT, writes The Global Lawyer. Meanwhile, retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer has his say on globalization and the rule of law. April 16, 2023 at 06:43 PM  11 minute read The Global Lawyer Executive Editor, Law.com International Is artificial Intelligence smart enough to overcome geopolitics? Generative AI, the basis for ChaptGPT and its successors, continues to produce a great deal of interest—and anxiety—among lawyers and governments around the world. The initial excitement and curiosity has given way to panic and fear. Having seen what it is capable of, junior lawyers are nervous about what will be asked of them if artificial intelligence is able to perform some of their tasks. Law firm business professionals also worry that AI will supplant them, or at least give firm management the impression that at least some of their work can be carried out by AI. Register Now Already have an account? Sign In Now By Amy Guthrie By Christopher Niesche By Lisa Shuchman By Kasvi Sehgal Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition David v Goliath: Tiny Irish Firm Wins Elon Musk Twitter Case in Employment Tribunal International Edition Linklaters, Paul Weiss Lead on $3B PE-Backed Home Heating Deal International Edition Ex-DAC Beachcroft Paralegal Banned for Dishonesty in Pre-Employment Questionnaire International Edition Latham, Freshfields, Ashurst Assist Hong Kong Tycoon on Secondary London Listing and $449M Acquisition International Edition Presented by BigVoodoo  The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Celebrating achievement, excellence, and innovation in the legal profession in the UK. Legalweek New York explores Business and Regulatory Trends, Technology and Talent drivers impacting law firms. 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 
                                        RECRUITMENT BONUS Newly hired employees from this recruitment may be eligible to receive bonus payments up to $3,000!*   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE: ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join International Edition now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.