In a report released yesterday, Tate Sullivan from Maxim Group maintained a Hold rating on ABM Industries (ABM – Research Report). The company’s shares closed yesterday at $39.28. Sullivan covers the Industrials sector, focusing on stocks such as NV5 Holdings, Charge Enterprises, and ABM Industries. According to TipRanks, Sullivan has an average return of 18.8% and a 45.22% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on ABM Industries is a Hold with an average price target of $41.67, representing a 6.08% upside. In a report released yesterday, Robert W. Baird also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $40.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on ABM Industries’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending July 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.03 billion and a net profit of $98 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $1.96 billion and had a net profit of $56.9 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. ABM Industries, Inc. engages in the provision of facility services for commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings. It operates through the following segments: Business & Industry, Aviation, Technology & Manufacturing, Education, and Technical Solutions. The Business & Industry segment encompasses janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services for commercial real estate properties and sports and entertainment venues. It also provides vehicle maintenance services to rental car providers. The Aviation segment supports airlines and airports with parking and janitorial to passenger assistance, catering logistics, air cabin maintenance, and transportation. The Technology & Manufacturing segment provides janitorial, facilities engineering, and parking services. The Education segment delivers janitorial, custodial, landscaping & grounds, facilities engineering and parking services for public school districts, private schools, colleges and universities. The Technical Solutions segment engages in mechanical and electrical services. The company was founded by Morris Rosenberg in 1909 and is headquartered in New York, NY.  Read More on ABM: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks