Job Title:  Integration Specialist  Organisation: National Information Technology Authority-Uganda (NITA-U) Duty Station:  Kampala, Uganda   About US: The National Information Technology Authority-Uganda (NITA-U) is an autonomous statutory body established under the NITA-U Act 2009, The Authority is under the general supervision of the Ministry of Information Communications Technology and National Guidance (MOICT&NG). The National Information Technology Authority, Uganda was established with a mandate to coordinate, promote and monitor the development of IT in the context of social and economic development of Uganda.   Job Summary: The Integration Specialist will ensure high-quality systems integration management procedures and services in support of the successful achievement of UGHUB (Government Integration Platform) specific outputs.   Key Duties and Responsibilities: 
      (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Qualifications, Skills and Experience:    How to Apply: All interested applicants who meet the job requirements/specifications and with the right personal attributes are invited to complete and submit their application for, Download Here, with a cover letter, supported by curriculum vitae, copies of certificates and testimonials, and must specify day time telephone contact and email addresses of both the applicant and three referees, to the address below.   The Executive Director, National Information Technology Authority – UGANDA (NITA-U), Palm Courts, Plot 7A, Rotary Avenue (former lugogo bypass) P.O. Box 33151, Kampala-Uganda   Tel: 0417 801 038   via email: hr@nita.go.ug   Deadline: 7th June 2023 by 5:00pm    For more of the latest jobs, please visit https://www.theugandanjobline.com or find us on our facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UgandanJobline   Job Title:   Data Analyst (No Experience Jobs)   Organisation: Jubilee Life… Job Title:    Office Attendant (21 Fresher PLE Jobs) Organisation: Uganda Post Limited… Job Title:    Post Bus Conductor (6 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Uganda Post Limited… Job Title:    Assistant Accountant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Uganda Post Limited (Posta… Job Title:    Post Bus Supervisor   Organisation: Uganda Post Limited (Posta Uganda)… Job Title:    Procurement and Disposal Officer   Organisation: Uganda Post Limited (Posta… 

 For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com Popular Jobs 



 Administrative Assistant NGO Jobs – GOAL Uganda
 

											6 min read										



Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More






 2 Entry-Level Oil & Gas Jobs – Assistant Coating Inspector – Sinopec (Uganda)
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More






 Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling) Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.
 

											4 min read										



Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More






 10 Sales Manager Job Positions – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More






 5 Accountant Jobs – Goodman International
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:   Accountant (5 Job Vacancies)     Organisation: Goodman International LtdRead More




 Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More Job Title:   Accountant (5 Job Vacancies)     Organisation: Goodman International LtdRead More   