TAMPA — City staff unveiled a new service Tuesday dedicated to assisting Tampa renters navigate a housing affordability crisis that shows few signs of abating. “Whether they are having trouble finding a unit within their budget, landlords who are willing to accept tenants with a prior eviction, or need to ask a housing related question, but do not know who to turn to, residents are encouraged to reach out to our new Tenant Services Team,” Mayor Jane Castor said in a statement. “Serving as the frontlines, this new team is providing valuable guidance, insight, and more importantly, solutions.” The team is comprised of two employees, serving as a resource guide for renters within city limits. “One of the biggest questions we get is: Where is there an affordable unit?” Director of Housing and Community Development Kayon Henderson said at a Tuesday news conference. The team manages a database of landlords with available units, as well monitors a patchwork of city-operated and external housing assistance programs to point residents toward, she said. Last spring, residents poured into council meetings, pleading for relief from spiraling rents, relaying the realities of deplorable living conditions and sharing fears of being pushed out of the city. Last June, City Council members unanimously approved asking the mayor to create a $400,000, two-person tenant advocacy office to help residents affected by ballooning housing costs, modeled on a similar program in Miami-Dade County. Though initially noncommittal on the idea of the advocacy office, less than a week later Castor announced the launch of a housing information hotline to offer guidance. The city called in emergency staff who are tapped to offer support during hurricanes to field calls while they went through the process of hiring about a dozen temporary workers. “We essentially activated our emergency operations that are usually used for storms to respond to the housing crisis,” Administrator of Development and Economic Opportunity Nicole Travis said in a recent interview. “It was real time triage.” Over the first six months, staff answered more than 2,300 calls, according to city data, though call volumes subsequently plummeted. This January, on average, the hotline received a call a day. The newly created Tenant Services Team absorbed the hotline last month, fielding calls from 51 people in its first week. City Council member Guido Maniscalco, who led the effort to create an advocacy office, called the launch of the Tennant Services Team “welcome news.” Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. He had argued that having a centralized resource for residents to seek guidance would help them locate resources more quickly and efficiently. “This new team meets those goals,” he said Tuesday. “This situation is not getting better. We’re doing what we can.” Since 2018, rent has spiked 38% in Tampa and 36% in St. Petersburg, according to data from the real estate firm CoStar. Bianca Ferdinand, one of the tenant advocacy specialists fielding calls, knows the difficulty of navigating Tampa’s rental market firsthand. Originally from Maryland, she lived out of a hotel for 10 months after moving to Florida, struggling to find a home of her own. Now, she strives to be a source of comfort and guidance for others through the phone. “I get at least two breakdowns a day,“ she said. “There is a level of desperation, of just being overwhelmed.” To reach the Tenant Services Team, residents can dial (813) 307-5555, the same number as the Housing Information Line, Monday through Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. The Tampa Bay Times has a team of reporters focusing on rising costs in our region. If you have an idea, question or story to tell, please email us at costofliving@tampabay.com. NEED HOUSING HELP? Here are housing resources in Tampa Bay. WATCH OUT FOR SCAMS: Here’s how to fact-check rental listings. STAYED UPDATED: Sign up for our free weekly Business by the Bay newsletter, featuring insights on the economy, real estate and local businesses. Olivia George is a reporter covering the City of Tampa. Reach her at ogeorge@tampabay.com.  The Tampa Bay Times e-Newspaper is a digital replica of the printed paper seven days a week that is available to read on desktop, mobile, and our app for subscribers only. To enjoy the e-Newspaper every day, please subscribe.