“Techquity” is the idea that healthcare technology can either be a barrier or conduit to more accessible, equitable care, depending on its purpose and design. Techquity as a concept is also the driving force behind a growing number of startups – including, and most meaningfully, healthcare platforms.  Just because the healthcare experience has gone digital doesn’t mean it’s readily accessible or easy to navigate – digitally or otherwise – for everyone, and certainly not equally. Digital inclusion, which some researchers have dubbed a “super” social determinant of health (SDoH), plays an increasingly important role in determining health outcomes – and, depending on a variety of factors, can either exacerbate or bridge gaps in health disparities. The idea of healthcare technology being either a barrier or conduit to more accessible, equitable care is what’s been dubbed by many in the healthcare industry as “techquity.” Per the HLTH Foundation’s newly created Techquity for Health Coalition, techquity refers to “the strategic design, development, and deployment of technology to advance health equity, and acknowledgement that technology can inhibit advancements in health equity if not implemented intentionally and inclusively.” Disparities in health were laid bare by Covid-19. Now, leaders are exploring how technology can play ... [+] a role in improving health equity It’s an ethos that’s at the core of most value-based healthcare delivery organizations. It’s a principle that’s been baked into the Quadruple Aim, with the addition of equity and inclusion as a pillar. Techquity is also the driving force behind a growing number of startups aiming to improve health equity and better account for SDoH – including, and perhaps most excitingly, healthcare platforms. Techquity, as both a concept and call to action, took center stage at HLTH’s second annual ViVE conference in Nashville in March, where the Techquity for Health Coalition presented findings from its first national survey on the topic. The National Techquity for Health survey builds on the group’s previously released “The Path to Equity” report, which aimed to bring attention to the care inequities that can stem from health tech that’s not designed with equity in mind. Among the key findings in the Coalition’s latest techquity survey include:   Given the nature and complexity of addressing disparities in health, there seems to be a widespread recognition that driving measurable improvements will not be achieved by any one player, or even any one platform, and certainly not overnight. But because digital health companies utilizing platform business models create value through facilitating connections and aligning interests among different stakeholder groups, they are uniquely capable of overcoming many of healthcare’s systemic issues that directly impact health equity: improving access (by efficiently matching supply with demand), reducing information asymmetry, empowering clinicians (by giving them tools and expanding their career options) and lowering transaction costs (by removing duplicative costs). Kasier Family Foundation's framework for understanding health disparities Maia Hightower, MD, MBA, MPH is EVP and Chief Digital & Technology Officer at University of Chicago ... [+] Medicine, and Cofounder and CEO of Equality AI Maia Hightower, MD, MBA, MPH and Chief Digital & Technology Officer at University of Chicago Medicine, also makes the compelling case that digital health companies should be addressing health equity in order to make their solutions more attractive to potential healthcare customers. “When digital health companies pitch their solutions to me, I am looking for ways that the technology can be used to address health disparities,” explains Hightower. According to an analysis on Census Bureau data for 2018, 67.3 million U.S. residents speak a language other than English at home, with one in twelve U.S. patients being unable to communicate in English well enough to understand or be understood by their caregivers. Limited English-speaking and deaf patients are also disproportionately more likely to suffer adverse events, misdiagnosis, or mistreatment, where research even suggests 55% of provider malpractices cases stem from miscommunication. Language barriers are undoubtedly a significant driver of health disparities and a costly challenge for the entire healthcare system. One company that’s utilizing its platform to help patients, caregivers and providers to overcome issues related to language barriers is Jeenie. Jeenie’s on-demand platform connects providers (and patients) with medically qualified and HIPAA-compliant medical interpreters, available 24/7, in 300+ languages, including American Sign Language and indigenous languages. The company boasts the connections are made in under 30 seconds, on either video or audio, and without using call centers, operators, or “login hurdles.” Rather than relying on the traditional medical interpreter services model - which consists of a complex chain of actors from vendors (who sell interpreter services) to brokers (who connect them to interpreter service providers) to call centers (who staff and employ interpreters) - Jeenie utilizes a technology-as-platform model that directly connects end users to medical interpreters that have signed up to be part of the Jeenie network. Think of Uber’s model, but instead of riders and drivers, it’s providers / patients on one side and medical interpreters on the other. Gezzer Ortega, MD, MPH is an Assistant Professor of Surgery and Lead Faculty for Research and ... [+] Innovation for Equitable Surgical Care at the Center for Surgery and Public Health in the Department of Surgery at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH), Harvard Medical School, and adjunct faculty at the Patient Reported Outcomes, Value & Experience Center. Gezzer Ortega, MD, MPH is a professor and researcher on health disparities at Brigham and Women’s hospital (BWH), which uses the Jeenie platform. “The capacity to use Jeenie on any mobile device removes the limitation of providing interpreter services only within the walls of our hospital. We know the vast majority of our healthcare occurs outside of the hospital and Jeenie can be there as well for our patients,” Ortega explains. Jeenie’s platform model seems to be paying off. CEO Kirsten Brecht Baker notes that the company has grown its market footprint by 400% since its Series A fundraise in February 2022, and now has healthcare customers in all 50 states. Kirsten Brecht Baker is Cofounder and CEO at Jeenie As the company brings on more and more healthcare customers and patients, that increased demand should make the platform more attractive for more medical interpreters, which will be critical to meeting both greater and more diverse language needs. “Being able to support languages like K’ekchi’ and K’iche’, and other rare and indigenous languages, on video and on demand, is a great source of pride,” notes Brecht Baker. Ortega stresses the importance of interpretation on patient understanding of treatment plans and how this can affect clinical outcomes, and that having a technology platform that can scale to meet BWH’s diverse population is exciting. “Knowing that we have the potential to address this problem for this population, motivates me to work on solutions necessary to provide equitable surgical care,” he notes. In addition to language services, other ways that platforms are addressing health equity include:   Although we are in the relative early days of the platform revolution in healthcare, and have only begun to scratch the surface on health equity, the power and potential for healthcare platforms is great. Because platforms grow faster, scale quicker, and receive higher valuations than non-platform (pipeline business model) health tech companies, they’re not just a smarter bet for investors, they have a better chance of achieving their intended mission. And for those platforms wisely incorporating concepts of techquity, achieving success means having an impact at the patient and population level.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.