
Krista Software's recent survey indicates that despite increasing familiarity with AI, Americans remain hesitant to rely on it for crucial decision-making
 DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Krista Software, a pioneer in AI integration technology, has unveiled the results of its 2023 AI Trust Survey. The nationwide survey demonstrates that while most Americans are now aware of artificial intelligence (AI), their understanding of how it works varies greatly depending on factors such as age and job position. Furthermore, despite being open to AI handling specific tasks, respondents displayed strong reluctance to trust AI with decisions that could significantly impact their lives.

  
Considering the surge in AI-related news coverage and Krista Software's commitment to providing an innovative AI integration platform (AI iPaaS), the company surveyed 1,000 adults from across the United States to gauge their current knowledge, sentiments, and trust in AI for performing tasks and making critical decisions.

 
Highlights from the survey include:

 
"The survey results emphasize the importance of public awareness and transparency in how AI functions to build trust among people whose lives, jobs, and freedoms may be impacted by AI adoption," said John Michelsen, CEO and co-founder of Krista Software. "As we integrate AI into our lives and business processes, we must consider that users and consumers may not have computer or data science backgrounds. Business leaders must understand this and deploy AI in a way that they can build trust in AI decisions.”

 
To read the full 2023 AI Trust Survey report, click here.

 
About Krista Software
 
Krista Software specializes in developing the AI integration platform, Krista. Krista empowers companies to quickly implement any AI into their business enabling quick time to value. Utilizing natural language processing and machine learning, Krista personifies systems, enabling users to simply "Ask Krista" for desired business outcomes. For more information about how Krista is revolutionizing AI integration, visit the Krista website, and LinkedIn page.

 
Sydney Poteet
spoteet@ideagrove.com
 
Sydney Poteet
spoteet@ideagrove.com
