There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Consumer Goods sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on Rush Enterprises A (RUSHA – Research Report), Ulta Beauty (ULTA – Research Report) and Academy Sports and Outdoors (ASO – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Rush Enterprises A (RUSHA) In a report released today, Justin Long  from Stephens reiterated a Buy rating on Rush Enterprises A, with a price target of $64.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $60.04. According to TipRanks.com, Long is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 10.6% and a 63.1% success rate. Long covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies, Greenbrier, and Hub Group. Rush Enterprises A has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $64.00.
		  See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Ulta Beauty (ULTA) In a report released today, Olivia Tong  from Raymond James maintained a Buy rating on Ulta Beauty, with a price target of $600.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $528.15. According to TipRanks.com, Tong is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 7.8% and a 62.8% success rate. Tong covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as The Estée Lauder Companies, Colgate-Palmolive, and Bath & Body Works. Currently, the analyst consensus on Ulta Beauty is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $529.43, representing a 1.0% upside. In a report issued on February 9, Oppenheimer also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $600.00 price target.
		  Academy Sports and Outdoors (ASO) In a report released today, Kate McShane  from Goldman Sachs maintained a Buy rating on Academy Sports and Outdoors, with a price target of $72.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $60.72. According to TipRanks.com, McShane is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 8.7% and a 65.8% success rate. McShane covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Petco Health and Wellness Company, Ollie’s Bargain Outlet Holding, and Bj’s Wholesale Club Holdings. Academy Sports and Outdoors has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $70.13, a 15.9% upside from current levels. In a report released today, Cowen & Co. also initiated coverage with a Buy rating on the stock with a $72.00 price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on RUSHA:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks