The new store marks Academy's second location in Virginia KATY, Texas, Oct. 3, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Academy Sports + Outdoors ("Academy") (Nasdaq: ASO), a leading full-line sporting goods and outdoor recreation retailer, is excited to announce the opening of its second location in Virginia. Located in Fredericksburg, Va. at 1320 Carl D. Silver Parkway, the over 77,000-square-foot store brings a wide assortment of sports and outdoors merchandise to the area. This marks the sixth store Academy has opened in 2023. Academy plans to continue its expansion efforts with the goal of opening a total of 120 to 140 new stores by the end of 2027.  Academy will host grand opening festivities from Friday, October 6 through Sunday, October 8. Throughout the weekend, customers can look forward to exclusive deals and giveaways, and take advantage of great prices on the best brands. "Academy Sports + Outdoors is excited to continue bringing even more fun to the state of Virginia as we expand to Fredericksburg," said Sam Johnson, Academy's Executive Vice President of Retail Operations. "Our wide assortment has something for everyone, whether you are a first-time angler looking for a rod and reel, an avid runner in need of new shoes, or a little leaguer gearing up for gameday. Academy is here to make kickstarting your sports and outdoors activities fun and affordable."
		  Customers can expect to find the best assortment of athletic and casual shoes, sports and outdoors equipment, and clothing from top, national brands such as Nike, adidas, The North Face, Under Armour, Columbia, YETI, Carhartt, Stanley, Winchester, Shimano, Titleist, Traeger and more. Academy also offers tremendous everyday value and quality through its exclusive, private label brands such as Magellan Outdoors, Freely, R.O.W., BCG, H2OX, Redfield, and Mosaic, which cover outdoor apparel and equipment, women's and men's apparel, workout attire, fishing equipment, hunting optics and accessories, and outdoor furniture, respectively. The new Fredericksburg location is a fun destination where Virginia fans can find tailgating essentials, licensed apparel and novelty items. Additionally, customers can find a tent for a camping trip, cleats and soccer balls for that next team practice, and everything from grills to games to create a backyard oasis. Academy offers free services such as grill and bike assembly, scope mounting, bore sighting, and line winding/spooling. Customers can also purchase hunting and fishing licenses in the store. For more information regarding the grand opening deals and events text FREDERICKSBURG to 22369* or visit academy.com/fredericksburg. Customers are invited to shop online at academy.com or through Academy's mobile app, receive digital ads and offers, engage with Academy's social media accounts (@academy) and follow us on TikTok (@academysports), sign up for email/text alerts, and watch out for information on upcoming grand opening events. Individuals interested in careers at Academy can visit careers.academy.com to apply for open positions. About Academy Sports + OutdoorsAcademy is a leading full-line sporting goods and outdoor recreation retailer in the United States. Originally founded in 1938 as a family business in Texas, Academy has grown to 274 stores across 18 states. Academy's mission is to provide "Fun for All" and Academy fulfills this mission with a localized merchandising strategy and value proposition that strongly connects with a broad range of consumers. Academy's product assortment focuses on key categories of outdoor, apparel, sports & recreation and footwear through both leading national brands and a portfolio of private label brands. For more information, visit www.academy.com.
		  *By texting FREDERICKSBURG to 22369 you agree to receive recurring autodialed marketing text msgs to the mobile number used at opt-in from Academy Sports + Outdoors on 22369. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Msg frequency may vary. Msg & data rates may apply. Reply HELP for help and STOP to cancel. See Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy. Forward Looking StatementsThis press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on Academy's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance. Forward-looking statements are usually identified by or are associated with such words as "intends," "will," "plan," "believe," "expect," "may," and/or the negatives or variations of these terms or similar terminology. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global, regional, or local economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond Academy's control. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are set forth in Academy's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including Academy's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Risk Factors," as may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement in this press release speaks only as of the date released. Academy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as may be required by any applicable securities laws. Media Contact:Shane Carlisle, Public Relations Manager, shane.carlisle@academy.com   View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/academy-sports--outdoors-opens-new-store-in-fredericksburg-va-301945089.html
  SOURCE  Academy Sports + Outdoors Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks