Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  The eruption over the weekend of protests in China could mark the start of a "more authoritarian" era in President Xi Jinping's rule, one analyst warned Monday, as Beijing appeared to reach a critical crossroads in its zero-Covid strategy. Tens of thousands of people took to the streets of major cities on Saturday and Sunday to demonstrate against China's stringent Covid-19 measures, which have seen lockdowns, mass testing and widespread restrictions persist almost three years since the onset of the pandemic. The protests present one of the most outward rejections of the Chinese Communist Party's (CCP) authority in decades, and a clear affront to Xi's signature "zero-Covid" policy, TS Lombard's chief China economist told CNBC Monday. "They are widespread and, crucially, [they are] the first protests in a very long time that are going against a central government policy — and one that is very closely associated with Xi Jinping. So they are incredibly significant," Rory Green told CNBC's "Street Signs Europe." While Green said it was important not to "over extrapolate" the weekend's events, he added that it could pile the pressure on the Chinese leader to clamp down on dissent. "It raises the pressure on Xi Jinping, and I think likely puts him towards a more authoritarian approach to governance in China," Green added. The unrest — which included open calls in Shanghai for Xi to step down and the detention of foreign journalists — has been well-documented in the international press. But coverage within China has been somewhat limited due to the government's stringent censorship rules and control of the media. As such, Xi's CCP could clamp down further on public protests, Green noted. That was the case during 2019's pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, and 1989's Tiananmen Square protests on the Chinese mainland. The party is also likely to continue pursuing a hard line in its Covid strategy, as cases hit record highs even as citizens had anticipated an easing of measures. "In the short term, the Covid policy will only be fine-tuned without moving the needle," Bruce Pang, chief economist and head of research for Greater China at JLL, said Monday. "The focus of narratives is expected to be shifting back and forth between eliminating cases and making more precise measures," he added. That will add downward pressure to the country's already struggling economy. As of the third quarter, China's growth for the year was just 3%, well below the official target of around 5.5%. TS Lombard's Green said he thinks it is unlikely that real GDP growth will surpass 1% over the coming six months, as the county struggles to emerge from its "Covid coma." "The upshot for the economy is bleak. We think China stays in this Covid coma until at least Q2 2023," he said. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by