
                    
                      
                        Freddy Jeffreys, Noah & Gabriel Wadsworth and Sam Bentley
                      
                    
                    
                      Credit: Bradford City
                    
                   Bradford City have confirmed that Freddy Jeffreys, Noah Wadsworth and Sam Bentley, three of their academy graduates, have signed professional contracts for an initial term of one year.  
	These contracts will secure the trio's place at the University of Bradford Stadium until the end of the 2023/24 season. 
	Moreover, Gabriel Wadsworth, the younger brother of Noah, has been offered a professional contract of one year, slated to start from the 2024/25 season. 
	Sam Bentley, who was recognised as the Academy Player of the Year, along with both Wadsworth brothers, recently started at the Horsfall Community Stadium in a City XI's latest pre-season game against Bradford (Park Avenue). 
	Jeffreys, a midfielder, along with defenders Bentley and Noah Wadsworth, will continue to hone their skills in Bradford's under-19s side for the next season. Meanwhile, Gabriel Wadsworth, also a midfielder, is set to complete the second year of his two-year scholarship with the club before he turns professional. 
	Ryan Farrell, City’s lead professional development phase coach, spoke highly of the players' progress, stating, "I have been fortunate enough to work with these players for quite a few years now. Their resilience, perseverance and personality has shone through. They do the right things and make the right choices, whether we as coaches are around or not." 
	Farrell further stressed that they are looking forward to supporting the young players' growth both on and off the field, acknowledging, "They have given everything they have, and deserve this opportunity. Everyone in the academy is extremely proud of them.”  The in-house extratime.com team of writers View Full Profile  extratime.com is the leading provider of information on the League of Ireland. Established in 2008 and
                  run as a volunteer driven portal, the enterprise has gained recognition domestically and internationally
                  as a provider of accurate, innovative and timely news and statistics on the Irish domestic league and
                  associated events such as international fixtures.  Copyright: extratime