The provincial government is spending $4 million to add 180 new licenced practical nursing seats at six Nova Scotia Community College campuses and establish a nursing program at Acadia University. "I think the message today for Nova Scotians is no matter where you are in the province, anyone who is interested in becoming a nurse in Nova Scotia, after today there are more options available to you," Premier Tim Houston told a news conference at the Wolfville-based university. The Acadia program will launch in September with 21 seats before growing to 63 a year. About half the seats will be designated for Mi'kmaq, Indigenous and African Nova Scotian students, a step university president Peter Ricketts said is about making "tangible advances in reconciliation, equity, diversity and inclusion." Acadia's program will begin as a satellite site of the bachelor of science in nursing program at Cape Breton University. Ricketts said Acadia is pursuing a standalone program but, because accreditation can take years, a partnership with another university in the meantime will get students through the door sooner. NSCC seats to help with waitlists The school's provost, Dale Keefe, provided a connection between Acadia and CBU, his former employer, said Ricketts. "Dale reached out to them and they immediately said, 'Absolutely. Let's talk about this, this is a great idea.'" Along with CBU, Acadia joins Dalhousie and St. Francis Xavier as the other universities in the province to offer a registered nurse training program. Houston said he welcomed more partnerships between universities to help address the needs of the health-care system. The expansion of the NSCC program, meanwhile, will see 30 additional seats added in September at each of the Annapolis Valley, Lunenburg, Strait Area and Truro campuses, while 30 new seats at both the Burridge and Kingstec campuses will be ready for next January. Margaret Champion, the dean of health and human services at NSCC, said all of the programs getting new seats had waiting lists. She said the new seats could also help reduce demand at the metro Halifax campuses. "Sometimes what we find when we can open more seats in the rural communities [is] people make a decision to stay closer to home," she said. "So they may find their way back there." Doing this work — and in such a short time frame — is not without challenges. Both institutions will require more faculty. Champion said job postings would go up soon, but the college has a network of nurses in casual teaching positions who could now be offered more full-time work. Acadia needs more space Because university nursing students take general science and humanities classes in their first year, Acadia has more time to get people in place, but Ricketts said nursing-specific faculty will need to be recruited in time for the fall of 2024. The bigger need at Acadia will be space. Ricketts said the program will be able to exist for the first year or two in renovated space. But in order to hit enrolment targets after that they will need additional space, he told reporters. "We will need to build some dedicated laboratory space and learning space that's specifically needed for nursing." Houston said his government remains focused on fixing health care in the province, although he did not provide specific commitments when asked about long-term funding related to Thursday's announcements. Liberal MLA Keith Irving, whose district includes Acadia, said the announcement was great news for the university and rural communities around the province. More than 1,100 training spaces with new seats If he has any concerns, Irving said it would be related to housing options for students and ongoing funding to maintain the expanded program. "We can create the seats, but now to fill them we are going to need the fiscal support and housing support," he said. Thursday's announcement is the latest step by the Tory government to try to attract and retain more nurses. Earlier this year, Houston announced more than $100 million in bonuses for nurses intended to keep people working in the system and convince people who recently retired, are working causal or doing travel nursing, to sign on for more permanent work. The premier has also pledged job offers for every nursing graduate in the province for five years and last year's provincial budget included money for 200 new nurse training seats, which were subsequently opened. When all of the new seats at NSCC are in place there will be 575 first-year licenced practical nursing training spots across the province. The new seats at Acadia are in addition to 551 first-year bachelor of science nursing spots already available at Nova Scotia universities. MORE TOP STORIES Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. The “Fahrenheit 9/11” director described what voters may see when Donald Trump and Kamala Harris meet onstage. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. A former conservative federal appellate judge is urging the Supreme Court to keep Donald Trump off the ballot, arguing the ex-president’s effort to cling to power after his 2020 election loss was “broader” than South Carolina’s secession from the US that triggered the Civil War. Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 The Russian public are starting to "doubt the reasons for the war," Abbas Gallyamov said, while the president faces a moment of "vulnerability". "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."