 A Bermuda long-term insurer in the non-US private placement life insurance market has been hit with a regulatory fine of about $900,000. The Bermuda Monetary Authority said Thursday night it has imposed the financial penalties on the Class C company Acadia Life Limited. The civil penalties have been levied on the company for failure to adequately comply with certain obligations imposed on it under the Proceeds of Crime (Anti-Money Laundering & Anti-Terrorist Financing) Regulations 2008. The BMA said that following the Anti-Money Laundering/Anti-Terrorist Financing on-site inspection conducted by the authority in June 2022, a number of deficiencies were identified relating to the company’s AML/ATF programme and its obligations under the regulations. The BMA said: “The company did not adequately comply with the following requirements of the regulations, namely: 1, Implement appropriate AML/ATF governance pursuant to regulation 16 2, Undertake a business risk assessment pursuant to regulation 16(1)(ea) 3, Conduct appropriate customer risk assessments pursuant to regulations 6(3)(a) and 6(3)(b) 4, Apply adequate customer due diligence measures pursuant to regulations 5 and 6 5, Institute ongoing monitoring of its business relationships pursuant to regulation 7 6, Implement an independent audit function pursuant to regulation 17A 7, Conduct appropriate training pursuant to regulation 18 8, Implement internal policies regarding its obligations under Bermuda’s International Sanctions Regime.“ The authority said it required the foregoing deficiencies to be rectified by December 2022. The company complied within the requisite time frame and with the authority’s directions in a timely and expeditious manner throughout the entire remediation process. The BMA said: “This matter highlights the importance of regulated financial institutions implementing up to date AML/ATF and international sanctions policies and procedures in order to avoid the risk of financial products or legal structures being utilised as a vehicle for money laundering or terrorist financing. “The authority has taken the nature of the breaches into consideration in determining the appropriate level of the civil penalties to be imposed for each contravention. “In addition, the Authority had regard for the following factors: 1, The size and quality of the company’s book of business 2, The company’s full co-operation with the authority throughout 3, The company’s timely remediation.“ You must be Registered or Signed in to post comment or to vote.    Would you support a smoking ban?  View Results 
View all Obituaries Place an obituary
