The growing cannabis industry seems like an attractive investment to many people, but because of its illegal status at the federal level, it can be challenging to find a brokerage firm to handle transactions. The cannabis industry was valued at $9.1 billion in 2020 and is expected to grow to $70 billion by 2028, according to Grandview Research. Marijuana is legal in 33 states for medical and/or adult use, but because it’s still illegal at the federal level, it can be difficult for cannabis businesses to find banking or other financial services to serve them. Brokerage firms like JP Morgan Chase & Co. JPM will no longer permit their clients to buy stocks in U.S. cannabis companies that have a “direct nexus to marijuana-related activities” and are not listed on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Most Analysts also shy away from covering cannabis stocks, although investment research firm Morningstar and a few others cover some companies in its program, including Aurora Cannabis Inc. ACB, Canopy Growth Corp. CGC, Tilray Inc. TLRY and Green Thumb Industries Inc. GTBIF, and Verano VRNOF.  But one Chicago-based brokerage firm has been helping investors invest and trade in cannabis stock since 2018 when MedMen went public.  Gar Wood Securities LLC says it uses state-of-the-art technologies and trade execution algorithms to ensure its clients get their stock orders filled as quickly as possible while maintaining security and quality in the process.  Founded 2004 by industry veterans to offer institutional and self-directed traders personalized and cost-effective execution and cleared services, Gar Wood’s goal is to provide its clients with a high level of service by providing a combination of extensive product offerings, top-tier clearing firms and integrated technology. In addition to trade executions, Gar Wood services include: Gar Wood is led by CEO, President and Partner Robert Jersey and Chief Operating Office Executive Vice President and Partner Dennis Gerecke, who co-founded the company. Jersey has more than 45 years of experience in the securities industry. Since the company was created, it has served money managers, family offices and high-net-worth individuals. Jersey’s focus is on investment banking opportunities in the cannabis industry.  Gerecke has more than 30 years of experience in the financial services industry, with a focus on client service and brokerage operations.  To learn more about Gar Wood Securities, click here. This material is not intended as investment advice and is not meant to suggest that any securities are suitable investments for any particular investor. All investments are subject to risk and may lose value. Marijuana is still considered an illegal substance under federal law. Gar Wood Securities does not condone or encourage the use of marijuana or any other illegal substance. Investing in marijuana related investment products is considered high risk and should be done with caution as part of a well-diversified portfolio. For more information regarding Marijuana-Related Investments, see the SEC Investor Alert: https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts-bulletins/ia_marijuana.html This post contains sponsored advertising content. This content is for informational purposes only and is not intended to be investing advice. Featured photo by Kindel Media on Pexels © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Click on the image for more info. Want to understand what this means for the future of the industry?  Hear directly for top executives, investors and policymakers at the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, coming to Chicago this Oct. 8-9.  Get your tickets now before prices surge by following this link.