Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest global startup funding rounds for 2022. I have included some additional information such as industry, round type, a brief description of the company, investors in the round, company location, and total equity funding raised for the company to further the analysis. Interested in the top NYC Startup Fundings?  – The Largest NYC Startup Funding Rounds of 2022
Interested in the top LA Startup Fundings? – The Largest LA Startup Funding Rounds for 2022
Interested in the top London Startup Funding? – The Largest London Startups Funding Rounds of 2022
Interested in the top US Startup Funding? – The Largest US Startups Funding Rounds of 2022  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Fremont-based NEXTracker offers a breakthrough in horizontal tracking, with lower costs, better performance, and more flexibility for solar power plants. Founded by Daniel Shugar in 2013, Nextracker has now raised a total of $547.6M in total equity funding and is backed by ClearSky, Sigma Partners, DBL Partners, TPG Rise Climate Fund, and Tennenbaum Capital Partners.
Investors in the round: TPG Rise Climate Fund
Industry: Natural Resources, Renewable Energy, Software, Solar
Founders: Daniel Shugar
Founding year: 2013
Location: Fremont
Total equity funding raised: $547.6M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Boston-based Longroad Energy is a renewable energy developer that specializes in the development and operation of wind and solar energy projects. Founded by Charles Spiliotis, Michael Alvarez, Michael Alvarez, Paul Gaynor, Pete Keel, and Peter Keel in 2016, Longroad Energy has now raised a total of $500.0M in total equity funding and is backed by NZ Super Fund, MEAG, and Infratil.
Investors in the round: Infratil, MEAG, NZ Super Fund
Industry: Energy, Energy Management, Project Management
Founders: Charles Spiliotis, Michael Alvarez, Michael Alvarez, Paul Gaynor, Pete Keel, Peter Keel
Founding year: 2016
Location: Boston
Total equity funding raised: $500.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Paris-based Back Market is an online marketplace for refurbished electronics. Founded by Quentin Le Brouster, Thibaud Hug de Larauze, and Vianney Vaute in 2014, Back Market has now raised a total of $1.0B in total equity funding and is backed by Eurazeo, Goldman Sachs, General Atlantic, Generation Investment Management, and Aglae Ventures.
Investors in the round: Aglae Ventures, Eurazeo, General Atlantic, Generation Investment Management, Sprints
Industry: Consumer Electronics, E-Commerce, Marketplace
Founders: Quentin Le Brouster, Thibaud Hug de Larauze, Vianney Vaute
Founding year: 2014
Location: Paris
Total equity funding raised: $1.0B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series F
Description: Paris-based Doctolib is an online and mobile booking platform that helps users find doctors and make appointments. Founded by Franck Tetzlaff, Ivan Schneider, Jessy Bernal, Stanislas Niox-Chateau, Steve Abou Rjeily, and Thomas Landais in 2013, Doctolib has now raised a total of $815.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Eurazeo, Bpifrance, Accel, General Atlantic, and AGORANOV.
Investors in the round: Bpifrance, Eurazeo, General Atlantic
Industry: Health Care, Medical, Mobile Apps, Professional Services
Founders: Franck Tetzlaff, Ivan Schneider, Jessy Bernal, Stanislas Niox-Chateau, Steve Abou Rjeily, Thomas Landais
Founding year: 2013
Location: Paris
Total equity funding raised: $815.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series D
Description: Sveta Nedelja-based Rimac Group brings together advanced hypercars and high-performance electrification technologies for the world’s largest OEMs. Founded by Mate Rimac in 2009, Rimac Group has now raised a total of $875.7M in total equity funding and is backed by Goldman Sachs, Porsche, SoftBank Vision Fund, Porsche Ventures, and Hyundai Motor Company.
Investors in the round: Goldman Sachs, Porsche, SoftBank Vision Fund
Industry: Automotive, Electric Vehicle, Manufacturing, Mechanical Engineering, Transportation
Founders: Mate Rimac
Founding year: 2009
Location: Sveta Nedelja
Total equity funding raised: $875.7M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Beijing-based Eswin Computing develops integrated chips and solutions focused on displays and videos, AI data processing, and wireless connection. Founded by Wang Dongsheng in 2016, Eswin has now raised a total of $1.7B in total equity funding and is backed by Hongsheng Capital, Legend Capital, Source Code Capital, IDG Capital, and Shang Qi Capital.
Investors in the round: Beijing Financial Street Investment (Group), China Development Bank Capital, China Life Investment Holding, China National Building Material, Chongqing Yufu Holding Group, GF Venture Capital, Hongsheng Capital, SDIC Unity Capital, Shang Qi Capital, Source Code Capital, Zhongji Investment
Industry: Communication Hardware, Hardware, Semiconductor, Wearables
Founders: Wang Dongsheng
Founding year: 2016
Location: Beijing
Total equity funding raised: $1.7B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series B
Description: San Francisco-based Anthropic is an AI-driven research company that focuses on increasing the safety of large-scale AI systems. Founded by Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, and Tom Brown in 2021, Anthropic has now raised a total of $704.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Sam Bankman-Fried, Caroline Ellison, Jaan Tallinn, Nishad Singh, and Dustin Moskovitz.
Investors in the round: Caroline Ellison, Center for Emerging Risk Research, Jaan Tallinn, James McClave, Nishad Singh, Sam Bankman-Fried
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology, Machine Learning
Founders: Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, Tom Brown
Founding year: 2021
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $704.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series D
Description: Fort Lee-based Cross River is a financial institution that offers technology and banking services to consumers and businesses. Founded by Gilles Gade in 2008, Cross River has now raised a total of $775.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, T. Rowe Price, Ribbit Capital, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and LionTree.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Eldridge, General Global Capital, Hanaco Venture Capital, T. Rowe Price, Whale Rock Capital Management
Industry: Banking, Financial Services, FinTech
Founders: Gilles Gade
Founding year: 2008
Location: Fort Lee
Total equity funding raised: $775.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Toronto-based 1Password operates as a password manager for documents, credit card information, and addresses. Founded by Dave Teare, Natalia Karimov, Roustem Karimov, and Sara Teare in 2005, 1Password has now raised a total of $920.1M in total equity funding and is backed by Accel, Tiger Global Management, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Salesforce Ventures, and WndrCo.
Investors in the round: Accel, Ashton Kutcher, Backbone Angels, Blank Ventures, Chris Evans, George Kurtz, ICONIQ Growth, Jeff Weiner, Justin Timberlake, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Mary Barra, Matthew McConaughey, Pharrell Williams, Rita Wilson, Robert Downey Jr., Ryan Reynolds, Salesforce Ventures, Scarlett Johansson, Tiger Global Management, Trevor Noah
Industry: Cyber Security, Network Security, Privacy, Software
Founders: Dave Teare, Natalia Karimov, Roustem Karimov, Sara Teare
Founding year: 2005
Location: Toronto
Total equity funding raised: $920.1M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: London-based SumUp is a financial technology company that enables businesses to accept card payments at the Point-of-Sale or on the go. Founded by Jan Deepen, Marc-Alexander Christ, Petter Made, and Stefan Jeschonnek in 2011, SumUp has now raised a total of $682.2M in total equity funding and is backed by Temasek Holdings, Groupon, Goldman Sachs, BlackRock, and btov Partners.
Investors in the round: Bain Capital Tech Opportunities, BlackRock, btov Partners, Centerbridge Partners, Crestline, FIN Capital, Sentinel Capital Partners
Industry: Credit Cards, Financial Services, FinTech, Mobile Payments, Point of Sale
Founders: Jan Deepen, Marc-Alexander Christ, Petter Made, Stefan Jeschonnek
Founding year: 2011
Location: London
Total equity funding raised: $682.2M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Pflugerville-based The Boring Company engages in constructing underground transportation networks. Founded by Bridgett Moore, Bridgett Moore, Elon Musk, and Samuel Hetherington in 2016, The Boring Company has now raised a total of $908.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Sequoia Capital, Craft Ventures, Valor Equity Partners, Founders Fund, and 8VC.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Craft Ventures, DFJ Growth, Founders Fund, Sequoia Capital, Valor Equity Partners, Vy Capital
Industry: Construction, Infrastructure, Transportation
Founders: Bridgett Moore, Bridgett Moore, Elon Musk, Samuel Hetherington
Founding year: 2016
Location: Pflugerville
Total equity funding raised: $908.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series C
Description: Singapore-based Coda Payments helps digital content providers monetize their products and services in more than forty markets. Founded by Bobby Choi, Neil Davidson, and Paul Leishman in 2011, Coda Payments has now raised a total of $715.2M in total equity funding and is backed by Insight Partners, MDI Ventures, GIC, Apis Partners, and Smash Ventures.
Investors in the round: GIC, Insight Partners, Smash Ventures
Industry: Digital Entertainment, Digital Media, FinTech, Gaming, Mobile, Payments
Founders: Bobby Choi, Neil Davidson, Paul Leishman
Founding year: 2011
Location: Singapore
Total equity funding raised: $715.2M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Bangalore-based Swiggy is a food delivery platform that brings food from neighborhood restaurants directly to customers’ doors. Founded by Nandan Reddy, Phani Kishan Addepalli, Rahul Jaimini, and Sriharsha Majety in 2014, Swiggy has now raised a total of $3.6B in total equity funding and is backed by Tencent, Meituan, Goldman Sachs, Norwest Venture Partners, and Invesco.
Investors in the round: Alpha Wave Global, ARK Impact, Axis Growth Avenues AIF – I, Axis Mutual Fund, Baron Capital, Ghisallo Partners, Hedonova, IIFL Asset Management, Invesco, Kotak Mutual Fund, Prosus Ventures, Qatar Investment Authority, Segantii Capital Management, Sixteenth Street Capital, Smile Group, Sumeru Equity Partners
Industry: Delivery, Food and Beverage, Food Delivery
Founders: Nandan Reddy, Phani Kishan Addepalli, Rahul Jaimini, Sriharsha Majety
Founding year: 2014
Location: Bangalore
Total equity funding raised: $3.6B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series F
Description: Tallinn-based Bolt is a transportation platform providing ride-hailing, micromobility, and food and grocery delivery services. Founded by Markus Villig, Martin Villig, and Oliver Leisalu in 2013, Bolt has now raised a total of $1.9B in total equity funding and is backed by Startup Wise Guys, Sequoia Capital, Mercedes-Benz Group AG, European Investment Bank, and Pario Ventures.
Investors in the round: D1 Capital Partners, Fidelity Management and Research Company, G Squared, Ghisallo Partners, Owl Rock Capital, Sequoia Capital, Tekne Capital, Whale Rock Capital Management
Industry: Car Sharing, Food Delivery, Last Mile Transportation, Mobile Apps, Transportation
Founders: Markus Villig, Martin Villig, Oliver Leisalu
Founding year: 2013
Location: Tallinn
Total equity funding raised: $1.9B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Bellevue-based TerraPower focuses on developing a sustainable and economic nuclear energy system while reducing proliferation risks. Founded by Bill Gates and Edward Jung in 2006, TerraPower has now raised a total of $750.0M in total equity funding and is backed by US Department of Energy, CRV, SK Group, Intellectual Ventures, and Bill Gates.
Investors in the round: Bill Gates, SK Group
Industry: Clean Energy, CleanTech, Energy, Nuclear
Founders: Bill Gates, Edward Jung
Founding year: 2006
Location: Bellevue
Total equity funding raised: $750.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Besiktas-based Getir is a technology company that provides on-demand delivery services. Founded by Arkady Volozh, Mert Salur, Nazƒ±m Salur, Serkan Borancili, and Tuncay Tutek in 2015, Getir has now raised a total of $1.8B in total equity funding and is backed by Silver Lake, Sequoia Capital, Tiger Global Management, Mubadala, and Flat Capital.
Investors in the round: Abu Dhabi Growth Fund, Alpha Wave Global, Flat Capital, Mubadala, Revo Capital, Sequoia Capital, Tiger Global Management
Industry: Delivery Service, E-Commerce, Logistics, Mobile Apps
Founders: Arkady Volozh, Mert Salur, Nazƒ±m Salur, Serkan Borancili, Tuncay Tutek
Founding year: 2015
Location: Besiktas
Total equity funding raised: $1.8B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Stockholm-based Klarna is an e-commerce payment solutions platform for merchants and shoppers. Founded by Evgenii Kondratev, Niklas Adalberth, Sebastian Siemiatkowski, and Victor Jacobsson in 2005, Klarna has now raised a total of $4.4B in total equity funding and is backed by Silver Lake, Macy’s, Sequoia Capital, Ant Group, and IVP.
Investors in the round: Bestseller Group, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Mubadala, Niklas Adalberth, Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Sequoia Capital, Silver Lake, Victor Jacobsson, Vika Ventures
Industry: E-Commerce, FinTech, Payments, Shopping
Founders: Evgenii Kondratev, Niklas Adalberth, Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Victor Jacobsson
Founding year: 2005
Location: Stockholm
Total equity funding raised: $4.4B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series J
Description: Bangalore-based VerSe Innovation facilitates content curation and tracks user preferences through recommendation tools. Founded by Umang Bedi and Virendra Gupta in 2007, VerSe Innovation has now raised a total of $1.7B in total equity funding and is backed by Google, Meta, Microsoft, ByteDance, and Goldman Sachs.
Investors in the round: Baillie Gifford, CPP Investments, Google, Luxor Capital Group, Meta, Microsoft, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Sofina, Sumeru Ventures
Industry: Content, Internet, Social Media
Founders: Umang Bedi, Virendra Gupta
Founding year: 2007
Location: Bangalore
Total equity funding raised: $1.7B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series A
Description: San Francisco-based TeraWatt Infrastructure operates an electric vehicle charging infrastructure for medium and heavy-duty transport and fleets. Founded by Benjamin Birnbaum, Ethan Goldsmith, and John Rapaport in 2018, TeraWatt Infrastructure has now raised a total of $1.1B in total equity funding and is backed by Vision Ridge Capital Partners, Cyrus Capital Partners, and Keyframe Capital Partners.
Investors in the round: Cyrus Capital Partners, Keyframe Capital Partners, Vision Ridge Capital Partners
Industry: Electric Vehicle, Energy Management, Fleet Management, Industrial Engineering
Founders: Benjamin Birnbaum, Ethan Goldsmith, John Rapaport
Founding year: 2018
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $1.1B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series D
Description: London-based Checkout.com is a global payments solution provider on a mission to enable businesses and their communities to thrive in the digital economy Founded by Guillaume Pousaz in 2012, Checkout.com has now raised a total of $1.8B in total equity funding and is backed by Insight Partners, Tiger Global Management, Coatue, Ribbit Capital, and Qatar Investment Authority.
Investors in the round: Blossom Capital, Coatue, Dragoneer Investment Group, DST Global, Endeavor Catalyst, Franklin Templeton Investments, GIC, Insight Partners, Qatar Investment Authority, Ribbit Capital, Tiger Global Management
Industry: E-Commerce, FinTech, Payments, Transaction Processing
Founders: Guillaume Pousaz
Founding year: 2012
Location: London
Total equity funding raised: $1.8B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series F
Description: Nanjing-based Shein is an online marketplace that offers apparel, beauty, accessories, and home goods. Founded by Xiaoqing Ren, Yang Pei, and Yangtian Xu in 2008, Shein has now raised a total of $2.1B in total equity funding and is backed by Tiger Global Management, Sequoia Capital China, General Atlantic, JAFCO Asia, and IDG Capital.
Investors in the round: General Atlantic, Sequoia Capital China, Tiger Global Management
Industry: E-Commerce, Fashion, Marketplace, Textiles
Founders: Xiaoqing Ren, Yang Pei, Yangtian Xu
Founding year: 2008
Location: Nanjing
Total equity funding raised: $2.1B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Series E
Description: Irvine-based Anduril Industries is a defense product company that builds technology for military agencies and border surveillance. Founded by Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, and Trae Stephens in 2017, Anduril Industries has now raised a total of $2.2B in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, General Catalyst, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Valor Equity Partners, and Elad Gil.
Investors in the round: 8VC, Andreessen Horowitz, DFJ Growth, Elad Gil, FJ Labs, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, Human Capital, Lachy Groom, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Lux Capital, Marlinspike Capital, Modern Venture Partners, Palumni VC, Thrive Capital, Valor Equity Partners, WCM Investment Management
Industry: Aerospace, Augmented Reality, Government, National Security, Virtual Reality
Founders: Brian Schimpf, Joseph Chen, Matt Grimm, Palmer Luckey, Trae Stephens
Founding year: 2017
Location: Irvine
Total equity funding raised: $2.2B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here.  Round: Venture
Description: Cary-based Epic Games is an interactive entertainment company that develops games and offers its game engine technology to other developers. Founded by Mark Rein and Tim Sweeney in 1991, Epic Games has now raised a total of $6.4B in total equity funding and is backed by Tencent, BlackRock, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Fidelity Management and Research Company, and AXiomatic.
Investors in the round: KIRKBI, Sony
Industry: Developer Platform, Gaming, Software, Video Games
Founders: Mark Rein, Tim Sweeney
Founding year: 1991
Location: Cary
Total equity funding raised: $6.4B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (New York Tech, London Tech, LA Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including strategic brand placement in a high-visibility piece like this, which will be read by the vast majority of key decision-makers in the global business community and beyond. Learn more about how a digital campaign will return your investment here. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 