OHIO News Helpful Links Navigate OHIO Connect With Us The Ohio University Office of Information Technology (OIT) sent a semester start e-mail to all University instructors in May. The e-mail outlined changes to OHIO’s computing tools, tools for teaching and research, and device security while traveling. The email covered three key areas and is presented below Ohio University has chosen Canvas as its next learning management system, replacing Blackboard Learn. The transition plan will be announced by the fall semester and will aim to minimize disruption for students and faculty. Canvas allows for enhanced course design and consistent student experience. All LMS users are invited to submit questions to contribute to a dynamic FAQ via the Office of Information Technology’s website. Starting May 11, links generated from OneDrive with the "shared with anyone" permission will expire after 90 days. Your file will not be deleted, only the link will expire. If you'd like the link to expire earlier, you can set the expiration date for any period up to 90 days. When possible, select the option to share links with “People in Ohio University,” “People with existing access,” or “People you choose” to avoid expired file links. Note: This change complies with current security standards. The retention policy for Microsoft Teams meetings and event recordings has been extended. All Teams' auto-saved recordings will remain available for 18 weeks. Recordings made within a channel can be found within that channel’s Files tab. Recordings for non-channel meetings will be located in the recording initiator’s personal OneDrive folder. After 18 weeks, the recording will be automatically deleted from Teams or OneDrive. To permanently keep a recording do one of the following: Note: Downloading sensitive information to personal devices is not allowed. Blackboard integration updates were scheduled to occur between May 10-12. These updates will retire Skillsoft and upgrade Shadow Health. Please note that new integrations may require course content to be recreated. Visit Blackboard Integration Updates for more details. Exciting changes to course evaluations are going live this summer. Explorance’s Blue course evaluation software will replace Class Climate to capture student course feedback. Blue allows instructors to review student response rates, send evaluation reminders, and generate QR codes to promote evaluation participation. Instructor training will be available prior to the course evaluation period. Sign up for a June training session to learn more about getting started with Blue and accessing evaluation reports. As you plan and update your course materials for the summer semester, it is important that every student can properly interact with your course content. Be sure to check your digital course materials for accessibility. Microsoft continues to improve the Teams experience and we want to inform you of some new updates: As you conduct research this summer, remember that many federal funders now require detailed Data Management Plans (DMPs) for grant submissions.  OHIO researchers can use DMPTool, a free online platform to create, modify, and save their DMPs securely and conveniently. Traveling somewhere with spotty reception? You can authenticate over Wi-Fi with the Microsoft Authenticator app. You can also use a one-time passcode on the Authenticator app, which does not require your phone to be connected to Wi-Fi or a mobile network. © 2024 Ohio University. All rights reserved.