England have lost five of their last six matches and are ranked eighth in the world 2023 Rugby World Cup Hosts: France Dates: 8 September to 28 October Coverage: Full commentary of every game across BBC Radio 5 Live and Radio 5 Live Sports Extra, plus text commentary on the BBC Sport website and app. England's players feel "they have been written off a bit too early" before the Rugby World Cup, says head coach Steve Borthwick. Borthwick's side have endured a highly difficult build-up, with three defeats in warm-up matches, as well as injuries and suspensions to key players.  England open their campaign against Argentina in Marseille on Saturday.  "We've been through a pretty turbulent time but I sense it has made us stronger," Borthwick told BBC Sport. "And I sense for us there is a renewed determination. And I certainly get the feeling from the players that they feel they have been written off a bit too early.  "There is a feeling people have rung time on these players. And I think that decision may have been made a little bit too early." As well as losing starting scrum-half Jack van Poortvliet and wing Anthony Watson to tournament-ending injuries, England will be without the banned Owen Farrell and Billy Vunipola for the showdown with the Pumas. However, the remaining 31 players in the squad took part in training on Monday, with Borthwick expecting to be able to choose from a fully-fit squad when he confirms his team on Thursday.  "At this stage I anticipate everyone being available for selection for the weekend," he added.  "We have been building towards 9 September and being ready for 9 September, and that has not changed.  "We know it's a formidable challenge, but I look at my players and I know they like a challenge.  "They have been challenged both on the field and off the field, but they are up for it." Predictor - who will win the World Cup? Rugby Union Daily podcast: Welcome to France Rugby World Cup fixtures, pools & coverage times Meanwhile, Farrell says he is "very frustrated" and "gutted" to be missing England's first two pool matches, after an appeal hearing upheld the red card he was given against Wales last month. "It was a mistake and people get stuff wrong sometimes, in this sport especially," he told BBC Sport.  "It was a split-second thing. I am not trying to make excuses, I am not moaning about anything that has gone on, I am saying it was a mistake and I accept it and let's move on." Farrell added some "open and honest" conversations have taken place in the aftermath of England's chastening defeat by Fiji.  "If the players have got something to say they have always been encouraged to say it," he said. "But has that been more so off the back of a couple of losses? Maybe a bit, I don't know. "We have a massive belief in what we can do as a team. We are looking forward to hopefully doing that on Saturday. "It's a big, big game, played in a brilliant stadium, and I wish I was a part of it. "I have massive confidence in the squad, because I know what this whole group is capable of, and I know that it is something that can turn pretty quickly. "There has been a good feel to what we have been doing over the past few days and we need to make sure that builds up into the weekend." Saturday, 9 September: England v Argentina (Stade de Marseille), 20:00 Sunday, 17 September: England v Japan (Stade de Nice), 20:00 Saturday, 23 September: England v Chile (Stade Pierre-Mauroy, Lille), 16:45 Saturday 7 October: England v Samoa (Stade Pierre-Mauroy, Lille), 16:45 Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.