Model # 715-01|Store SKU # 1001186924  Model # 715-01 Store SKU # 1001186924  An EZ twist nose cap wrench, EZ Lock mandrel, and EZ Lock cut-off wheels are part of this 160-piece kit filled with genuine Dremel accessories. Offering reusable storage bins and lift-out trays for easy organization of the included bits, this kit is ready for cutting, grinding, polishing, sanding, cleaning and more. The kit also includes sanding bands, sandpaper discs, polishing compound, felt polishing wheels, aluminum oxide Grinding Stone, silicon carbide Grinding Stone, mandrels, wire brush, wrench, and a reusable carrying case with clear lid.  Ideal for sharpening, deburring and general purpose grinding on most materials. The versatile 3/8 In. (9.5 mm) diameter Aluminum Oxide Grinding Stone works well for extended general purpose grinding on metals, sharpening tools, castings, welded joints, rivets and rust removal. The 932 Grinding Stone is cylinder shaped; however, Dremel offers a variety of grinding stones with different bit shapes to support virtually every possible grinding application. Compatible with all Dremel corded and cordless rotary tools. Theres no need to hunt for the right collet, all Dremel rotary accessories feature a 1/8 standard shank.   Stainless steel brushes do not cause after-rust when used on corrosive-resistant materials like pewter, aluminum and stainless steel. Ideal for cleaning, deburring and surface-finishing. Very effective on flat surfaces and in hard-to-reach places, such as slots. Pack includes two stainless steel brush accessories.   RYOBI introduces the 120-Piece All-Purpose Kit. This set includes options for cutting, carving, engraving, cleaning, polishing, and grinding. This set contains interchangeable bit bars. These bit bars are interchangeable with drill drive cases as well as the RYOBI Link Storage System. Expand your hobby and maker capabilities with these RYOBI accessories.   217-piece All-Purpose Rotary Tool Accessory Universal Kit for Cutting, Drilling, Grinding, Polishing, Engraving & Sanding. Best Gift for DIY lovers! It's time to get this tool kit and make everything you want!  © 2024 Home Depot International, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to certain terms of use which constitute a legal agreement between you and Home Depot of Canada Inc. Shop with confidence at homedepot.ca