— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed's editors. Purchases made through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. Your best sleep may not rely on your mattress—sometimes, it's all about the accessories. From sheets to weighted blankets there are plenty of accessory deals running for Sleep Week this year, including 50% off of comforters, site-wide markdowns at Avocado and more. Snooze, don’t lose. Sign up for our newsletter now and get subscriber-only deals on the things you need to get a good night’s sleep—only from March 12-17. You can shop accessories from Gravity Blanket, Nolah, Nectar and more to elevate your sleep setup. One of the best deals we've seen comes from Nolah, which is currently offering a bamboo comforter for $150, half off its original price. Sizing for the blanket starts with twin and twin XL sizes, but goes up to king.  ►Sleep Week 2023 is in full swing: Shop our favorite sales at Casper, Tuft & Needle, Leesa and more ►Ready for spring flowers? Prep your garden with Amazon deals on garden hoses, wheelbarrows and shovels ►Today is National Pi Day: Here's everything you need to celebrate If you're on the hunt for a comfy mattress pad, Allswell is offering 20% off of everything with promo code DAYLIGHT, meaning you can get a mattress pad for just $28. You can also get sheet bundles for less, like the Classic Hardcore bundle from Brooklinen, starting at $184.20 (you'll save over $100). This bundle from Brooklinen (home of our favorite sheets) allows you to create an all-encompassing sheet, duvet cover and pillowcase set. Gravity Blanket also has fantastic markdowns on weighted blankets for Sleep Week. You can get the traditional Gravity blanket for $199.99, saving you $50, or get an ombre 15 lb. weighted blanket for just $50, saving you $155. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.