Sporty Spice with a bit of bling. Kim Kardashian practically invented the selfie — how could anyone forget her coffee table book Selfish or her prison-bound photoshoot? — and that was long before the iPhone or self-facing cameras. Now, Kardashian continues to perfect her selfie skills on a weekly (if not daily?) basis, whether she's dressed to the nines, sporting a bikini, or in athleisure. As such, it makes total sense that even Kimberly's Sporty Spice-approved outfits are anything but boring — just look at her most recent loungewear look: a cropped sheer bra-barring tank top, windbreaker pants, and a diamond belly chain (which she shared by way of a selfie, of course). Getty Images On Thursday, the star (who has been traipsing and shopping her way through Japan) shared a series of snaps that showed her wearing a dark brown see-through tank that hit right above her midsection styled with black-and-white Adidas parachute pants.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Kim Kardashian (@kimkardashian) Perhaps the most notable part of her look, however, was the diamond belly chain that wrapped around her torso right along her belly button, which has become her go-to accessory as of late. She also added a silver necklace and diamond earrings, and her hair was styled in big voluminous curls and a deep side part. She kept her glam simple with a dewy complexion, feathery lashes, and a mauve lip. Kim Kardashian/Instagram Related: Kim Kardashian Channeled Audrey Hepburn in Marc Jacobs's New Campaign In the second slide, Kardashian was pictured peering at something on her phone while surrounded by people who were presumably a part of her team. The group appeared to be in an elevator with wooden paneling and a mirror along the back. The fashion mogul forwent a caption and let the images do the talking. All week, Kim has been documenting her and her daughter North's trip to Japan. Yesterday, Kardashian shared on her story that she found the bespoke vintage Chanel choker that Margot Robbie wears in Barbie at Vintage Ecoland — along with a matching bubblegum pink handbag. "OMG best shopping in Japan," she captioned her story. "I'm in my barbie bag at @vintage_ecoland." For more InStyle news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on InStyle. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.