Brought to you by  ACE-1831 is under clinical development by Acepodia and currently in Phase I for B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. According to GlobalData, Phase I drugs for B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma have a 75% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase II. GlobalData’s report assesses how ACE-1831’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. ACE-1831 is under clinical development by Acepodia and currently in Phase I for B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. According to GlobalData, Phase I drugs for B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma have a 75% phase transition success rate (PTSR) indication benchmark for progressing into Phase II. GlobalData’s report assesses how ACE-1831’s drug-specific PTSR and Likelihood of Approval (LoA) scores compare to the indication benchmarks. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 GlobalData tracks drug-specific phase transition and likelihood of approval scores, in addition to indication benchmarks based off 18 years of historical drug development data. Attributes of the drug, company and its clinical trials play a fundamental role in drug-specific PTSR and likelihood of approval. ACE-1831 overview ACE-1831 is under development for the treatment of CD20-positive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The therapeutic candidate comprises of off-the-shelf NK like gamma delta T cells armed with antibodies and acts by targeting CD 20 expressing hematological tumor cells. It is being developed based on the antibody-cell conjugation (ACC) technology platform. It is administered through intravenous route.  Acepodia overview Acepodia is a biotechnology company that develops cell therapies to treat cancers. Its pipeline include ACE1702 an antibody-conjugated NK (natural killer) cell therapy targeting HER2-expressed solid tumors, ACE1831 drug against CD20-indicated hematological cancers, ACE1708 an off-the-shelf NK-like gamma delta T therapy for PD-L1 expressed solid tumors. The company is also evaluating ACE1975 and ACE2107 antibodies against solid tumors and hematological malignancies, ACE2023 for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and ACE2146 for solid tumors. Acepodia utilizes its antibody-cell conjugation (ACC) technology platform to develop immunotherapies. The company has operations in New Taipei City, Taiwan. Acepodia is headquartered in San Mateo, California, the US.
 For a complete picture of ACE-1831’s drug-specific PTSR and LoA scores, buy the report here. 
                                This content was updated on 10 June 2024                                 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying data, research, and analysis used to produce this article. GlobalData’s Likelihood of Approval analytics tool dynamically assesses and predicts how likely a drug will move to the next stage in clinical development (PTSR), as well as how likely the drug will be approved (LoA). This is based on a combination of machine learning and a proprietary algorithm to process data points from various databases found on GlobalData’s Pharmaceutical Intelligence Center. Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024