Even as a youngster, Donna Bobbitt-Zeher envisioned her career — sort of. “One of my most vivid childhood memories is playing school,” recalled Bobbitt-Zeher. “I would set up all my stuffed animals in a semi-circle around my little chalkboard and carry out my lessons. I’d drag in any family members who happened to pass by as well. I could go for hours, teaching addition or reading stories. It never really mattered the content. I just loved learning, sharing what I knew, and the prospect of being the one who got be the teacher.” “By the time I was thinking about going to college, I still thought I’d be a schoolteacher," she continued. "At that point, I was thinking middle school would be fun to teach, and I could specialize in Spanish, a subject I really enjoyed. As I continued to age, so did the age of the students I was interested in teaching. Middle school become high school. I never considered growing up that I would choose a career that would have me in college for more than four years, and definitely not becoming a professor!” Today, Bobbitt-Zeher is associate professor of sociology as well as assistant dean for general education implementation at Ohio State Marion. “I teach primarily classes on social inequality, gender, race and ethnicity, poverty, research methods, and statistics for sociologists." she explained. "I also work with students outside of the classroom. For example, I’m currently advising a student on his undergraduate thesis. And I frequently involve undergraduates in my own research. Also, I’m overseeing the implementation of the new general education curriculum on the Ohio State Marion campus.” Bobbitt-Zeher grew up in Danville, Virginia, graduated from high school there, from Virginia Tech in 1994 with a dual degree in sociology and Spanish, then earned a master’s in sociology from the University of Kansas in 1998 and a Ph.D. in sociology from Ohio State in 2008. “I chose sociology as a major,” she said, “because of its focus on the interplay between the social world and individuals. We can’t understand individuals without understanding how society shapes them, and society is constantly being shaped by the individuals who are interacting within it. It’s just a great framework for viewing the world around us, regardless of what we’re examining.” “I’m really intrigued by questions about social inequality — its nature and forms, for example, and how social change affects social inequality," said Bobbitt-Zeher. "So I spent a few years working in the domestic violence prevention area and in public affairs for women’s health care before completing my Ph.D. and joining the faculty at Ohio State. Those experiences gave me insights, appreciation and perspective that complement the theoretical and empirical works I use in my research.” Bobbitt-Zeher came to OSUM in 2008. “Donna is a highly respected member of the sociology department at Ohio State,” stated Doug Downey, professor of sociology at OSU Marion. “She has a reputation as an outstanding teacher and a hard worker who does more than pull her weight. Ohio State is lucky to have her.” “I don’t think 5-year-old me lecturing to stuffed animals would have imagined this version of me, but I’m happy with my chosen path. It’s a privilege and a pleasure to work with my students and colleagues," Bobbitt-Zeher responded. The Ohio State University at Marion is located at 1465 Mt. Vernon Ave. in Marion. For more information, call 740-389-6786 or log on osumarion.osu.edu. Aces of Trades is a weekly series focusing on people and their jobs — whether they’re unusual jobs, fun jobs or people who take ordinary jobs and make them extraordinary. If you have a suggestion for a future profile, let us know at news@marionstar.com.