LANCASTER − Jessi Elkins' life is a classic case of turning a negative into a positive. She turned her own drug addiction into a way to help others as a peer support specialist at Faith Mission of Fairfield County. Elkins has held her current position for about eight months. She works part-time but expects to take a full-time position in July. "A peer support specialist is someone with a lived experience in either addiction or mental health," Elkins said. "They help other people in the same position coming out of addiction or mental health (issues). They lead by example, teach them the ropes, give them information from the county of anybody that can help. We just help pull them out of the fire." Elkins has been clean for more than two years herself from methamphetamine addiction. She spent a good portion of 2020 in and out of jail before going to rehab, which she said changed her life. Elkins also went through Faith Mission's sober program. MORE: Aces of Trades: Love of West Virginia hot dogs led Kim Oxley to open popular eatery "Then once I got enough clean time under my belt and they had a position open, I'm actually working at the place that saved my life," she said. "I absolutely love my job. I couldn't be at a better place." Her duties include taking those in recovery to meetings and various events and showing them how to live a sober life, among other things. Elkins said the most challenging part of her job is dealing with people who are not ready to get sober. "A lot times you get attached to them and try to give them what you've found, and some people just aren't ready," she said. "Then on top of that, when they go back out (relapse), they die. I just wish everybody could find what I found in recovery. Some people just don't want to change the behavior and don't see what causes them to keep going back out there." On the other hand, Elkins said seeing people get clean and sober is one the rewards of her job. "Watching people get their kids back," she said. "Watching people graduate drug court and learning how to live on the other side. Some of these people, the drugs and the lifestyle is all that they know. So, to watch them live a different life is probably the most rewarding thing I've ever done." Away from work, Elkins is planning her June wedding. "That's about all that I have the ability to do," she said. "Other than I like to work out. I've noticed that I've become a gym junkie since I've gotten clean." Elkins said she's also learning how to be a mom again to her two children. jbarron@gannett.com 740-681-4340 Twitter: @JeffDBarron This article originally appeared on Lancaster Eagle-Gazette: Jessi Elkins turns negative life experience into a positive New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.