
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)   The Prism Pod was awarded Lux-Life's most-powerful red light therapy bed Product Excellence Award three years in a row!
Prism Light Pod maximizes 360 degrees of energy production & mitochondrial-wellness with the innovative design of our full-body red light therapy bed.
Prism Light Pod photobiomodulation therapy sessions are 15-minutes, fully-automated with six-optimized settings that are designed for users with Prism's unique“One-Button” operation.
The Spa Butler Now Offers The Most Powerful, Energy Efficient & Automated Full-Body Red Light Therapy Bed On The Market
DALLAS, TX, USA, April 13, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- The Spa Butler, a leading provider of medical spa equipment, today announced a partnership with Prism Light Pod, a provider of immersive wellness experiences with the most powerful red light therapy products on the market. The partnership will allow The Spa Butler to offer its clients the opportunity to experience the benefits of Prism Light Pod's patented technology, which uses a combination of red, blue, and near-infrared light to promote healing and relaxation.

“We are excited to partner with Prism Light Pod to offer our clients a truly unique and immersive wellness experience,” said Tyler Slater, CEO of The Spa Butler.“Prism Light Pod's technology is FDA cleared and has been shown to be effective in a variety of areas, including pain relief, sleep improvement, and skin rejuvenation. We believe that our clients will love the opportunity to offer the benefits of this technology in their health and wellness centers”

Prism Light Pod has won the lux life global excellence award three years running. The technology is based on the principle of photobiomodulation, which is the use of light to stimulate cellular repair and regeneration. The light emitted by Prism Light Pod's pods is specifically designed to penetrate the skin and reach the body's tissues, where it can help to reduce inflammation, pain, and stress.

“We are thrilled to partner with The Spa Butler to bring our technology to a wider audience,” said Karl Chen, CEO of Prism Light Pod.“We believe that our partnership will allow us to help more people experience the benefits of our technology and achieve their wellness goals.”

The Spa Butler's partnership with Prism Light Pod is part of the company's ongoing commitment to providing medical practitioners and spa owners with the highest quality med spa equipment. Currently, The Spa Butler is offering a special promotional offer for licensed medical professional with the Prism Light Pod with no payments for the first six months and then $99 a month for the next six months. This is only $594 in payments for the first year for the most powerful red light therapy bed on the market!

To learn more about The Spa Butler and to get more information about the Prism Light Pod, please visit  .Tamera Fairbank
The Spa Butler
+1 214-383-9998
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
linkedin 
youtube 
other 
Prism Light Pod Helps Businesses Grow MENAFN13042023003118003196ID1106007460 The Prism Pod was awarded Lux-Life's most-powerful red light therapy bed Product Excellence Award three years in a row! Prism Light Pod maximizes 360 degrees of energy production & mitochondrial-wellness with the innovative design of our full-body red light therapy bed. Prism Light Pod photobiomodulation therapy sessions are 15-minutes, fully-automated with six-optimized settings that are designed for users with Prism's unique“One-Button” operation. The Spa Butler Now Offers The Most Powerful, Energy Efficient & Automated Full-Body Red Light Therapy Bed On The Market Tamera Fairbank
The Spa Butler
+1 214-383-9998
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
linkedin 
youtube 
other  Prism Light Pod Helps Businesses Grow  MENAFN13042023003118003196ID1106007460 MENAFN13042023003118003196ID1106007460 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN