CHILLICOTHE – He comes from a military background. She spent time in the food industry. They’re also massage therapists. “I was always interested in alternative medicine ever since high school,” recalled Matthew Cordial. “I saw the benefits of massage and thought that would be amazing to do to help people. It wasn’t until after I decided to get out of the Air Force that I decided to officially start my path, but I never dreamed of opening a spa until later in life.” Cordial joined the Air Force after high school, and he’s been a licensed massage therapist for 11 years. Samantha Detillion is a massage therapist, an esthetician, and she just finished nail technician schooling. “Before going down my spa industry path, I worked mainly in the food industry,” Detillion said. “It was very stressful and hard on my mind, body and mentality. It gave me the understanding that no matter what job you have you should take care of yourself, and that relaxation is part of self-care.” Together Cordial and (Wiley) Detillion opened CW Spa & Wellness Center in July 2022. “CW stands for Cordial and Wiley, our last names when we started the spa,” Cordial explained. Cordial grew up in the Chillicothe area. He went to school at Southeastern until 10th grade, then moved and graduated from Logan Elm. After high school he joined the Air Force for six years, then went to school in Omaha, Nebraska to become a massage therapist. “Both Samantha and I,” Cordial said, “wanted to start CW Spa & Wellness Center to create an amazing environment for clients and employees both. We wanted a place that would provide quality services so clients could feel better and leave happy.” Detillion also grew up locally, graduated from Unioto in 2014, then went to Hocking College to study massage therapy. “I’ve always wanted to help people but as a kid I never dreamed of owning my own spa,” said Detillion. “But when I was in massage school, I realized I could have my own business while helping people.” “Matthew and I have been friends for four years now,” Detillion added, “and we both had the dream of opening a more employee-friendly spa that encouraged self-awareness, self-care, and work-life balance. We’ve both worked in the spa industry for years and wanted to open a spa that was not only luxurious for the clients, but also a quality work environment for employees.” “It’s absolutely from the heart,” Cordial summed. “We both love what we do and love helping people feel better and have a better quality of life. Looking back as a kid, I never would have dreamed of where I am now but I’m thankful for all the lessons I’ve learned to get me here.” CW Spa & Wellness Center is located at 63 Executive Center Drive in Chillicothe. For more information, log on www.cwspa.square.site. About the Series Aces of Trades is a series focusing on people and their jobs – whether they're unusual jobs, fun jobs or people who take ordinary jobs and make them extraordinary. If you have a suggestion for a future profile, let us know at gaznews@nncogannett.com or 740-349-1110.