Chesterfield hot tub manufacturer, Superior Wellness has revealed its new range of products has received an impressive sustainability certification. The firm’s Platinum Spas Deluxe hot tubs, which were launched in Janaury, have been CEC tested, showing the company’s commitment to being more energy efficient. The CEC – or California Energy Commission is the only third-party accreditation organisation recognised by the spa and hot tub industry. With five models in the range all now boasting premium features and upgrades – introducing the Tahiti, Refresh, Happy, Palma and the brand new all seater Seville. Gareth Ward, Sales Director said: “We are delighted that the new range is CEC certified. The Deluxe range now includes the award-winning energy efficient insulation Platinum Premium Shield. This is designed by the Superior Heatlock Insulation Process which provides a considerable difference in the heat retained in the hot tub as well as a reduction in energy costs. “With a focus on innovation, the latest technology and an abundance of features, the new range includes a number of improvements.” The hot tub cover is now fabric instead of vinyl. The overall thickness of the cover has been increased providing greater insulation and creating energy savings. The circulation pump has also been upgraded to a much quieter and more energy efficient version, which again shows the company’s commitment to improving the overall efficiency for customers. Gareth Ward added: “We are very excited about the launch of the new Deluxe range. We always listen to feedback from our customers and partner network to help inform our decisions on innovation.” Chesterfield Borough Council recently approved it’s new Climate Strategy for the town, which reaffirms its ambitions to become a net-zero borough by 2050. The new strategy will direct how the council works with industry in the future, ensuring sustainability and climate change a central theme of everything it does. Read more about the strategy here.  Superior Wellness supports the marketing and economic growth of the town through Chesterfield Champions, a network of over 200 organisations across Chesterfield and North Derbyshire.  Josh Marsh Destination Chesterfield Coordinator (Investment and Marketing) Destination Chesterfield has announced the recruitment of eight new board members to strengthen the promotion of Derbyshire’s largest town. A Chesterfield-based producer of alcoholic liqueurs has once again taken Great Taste Awards for two of its drinks.  A brand-new cafe specialising in French Toast and sweet treats has opened it's doors to customers on Whittington Moor, adjacent to the SMH Group Stadium. Stay informed Keep up to date Dont miss out on all the latest news, updates & special offers.  Supported by the 2014 - 2020 European Regional Development Fund  Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Undefined cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Preference cookies are used to store user preferences to provide content that is customized and convenient for the users, like the language of the website or the location of the visitor.