
  A crew of motorcycling Santas spread a bit of festive joy by delivering presents to a children’s hospice.
 
  Revving into Acorns Children's Hospice on Bath Road, the annual Santas on a Bike Midlands put a smile on youngsters' faces.
 
  As part of the charity event, dozens of bikers dressed as Father Christmas collected money for and donated presents to Acorns Children’s Hospice in Worcester.
 
  Mel Hall from the fundraising team at Acorns, said: “We were thrilled to welcome Santas on a Bike back to Acorns in Worcester today, in what has become one of the highlights of our year.
 
  “At Acorns we like to create special memories for children and families, especially at Christmas, and a fleet of festive Santas on bikes is the perfect way to do that!
 
  “We also want to say a massive thank you to everyone who has donated, the money raised thanks to Santa’s on a Bike will make a real difference to local children and their families, at Christmas and all year round.”
 
READ MORE: Crew of motorcycling santas set to hit the roads of Worcestershire
 



 
  Santa’s on a Bike began in 2004 with just a dozen participants.
 
  This year, there were several rides taking place across the country, including in Bristol, Devon and Plymouth.
 
  The Midlands edition was organised by Jennifer Long, who took over the responsibility in 2021.
 
  Bikers met up shortly before midday on Saturday, December 10, at the Cornmill Yard in Evesham.
 
Motorcycling Santas delivered presents to Acorns Children's Hospice  (Image: Adam Lewis)
 
WATCH: Heartwarming moment bikers dressed as Santa arrive at children's hospice
 
  The crew then set off towards Broadway, passing through Bretforton, Badsey and Evesham before heading towards Worcester.
 
  Ms Long said: “I've been a biker for ten years and I know we like nothing more than all getting together to raise money for good causes throughout the year.”
 
   “Santa’s on a Bike choose to support children’s hospices at this time of year in the hope of raising a smile to children and families at what may be difficult times, especially brought to light around the festive period."
 
  For more information about Santa's on a Bike, and how to donate, visit www.santasonabike.org.uk/midlands. 
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.