
  A foundation set up by an insurance company held its third annual black-tie ball raising more than £30,000 for Acorns Children's Hospice.
 
  More than 225 guests attended the SJL Foundation's event which included a charity auction of signed sporting memorabilia.
 
  Former local radio presenter, Richard Hirst (Hirsty) hosted the event, which had live music from The Institutions.
 
  SJL covered the cost of the evening (including the venue and food) meaning that 100 per cent of the money raised - including the full price of ticket sales - also went directly to Acorns.
 
  The total amount raised on the evening was a staggering £30,366.
 
  Abigail Coulson, partnerships fundraising manager for Acorns, said: "We are absolutely thrilled to receive the news that the annual SJL Foundation Ball has raised such a phenomenal amount for Acorns.
 
  "We are so grateful for the on-going support we receive from Simon and the SJL team and their commitment to supporting their local children's hospice charity."
 
  Simon Lancaster, founder and trustee of the SJL Foundation, said: “The ball was our set piece annual fundraiser.
 
  “I would like to thank everybody who supported and attended the event to help us raise this huge amount of money to support Acorn’s Children’s Hospice, a phenomenal local hospice doing incredible work.
 
  “I am grateful to the SJL staff, our sponsors, corporate partners and all who donated prizes and contributed in so many ways. It is extremely humbling to see so many people pull together and we couldn’t do it without them.
 
  “Finally, the room looked spectacular, and an awesome event of this nature takes months of planning, hard work and skill - I would like to thank the organisers: My fellow trustees Kate Hanson, and my amazing wife Sarah Lancaster.’’
 
  The SJL Foundation was set up by Worcester-born entrepreneur and philanthropist Simon Lancaster, who is the CEO and founder of the insurance company, SJL Insurance.
 
  Simon Lancaster started the SJL Foundation to pay it forward, as he received a £500 business grant in 2001 from Worcester Council to set up SJL Insurance.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.