Wicklow ReWild Wicklow volunteers at Wild Acres reserve. Danny Alvey of ReWild Wicklow with Brian O’Toole of Wild Acres. OVER forty volunteers from the community group ReWild Wicklow visited the Wild Acres Nature Reserve in Scratenagh, for a very special task. Gilly Taylor and Brian O’Toole, the owners of Wild Acres, had collected 400 acorns from local Wicklow oak trees. These acorns germinated in their polytunnel and the volunteers helped clear some old raised beds and transplanted the seedlings into them. When these oak trees have grown in size they will be donated to ReWild Wicklow to be planted in other sites and help reforest Wicklow with native, locally-grown oak. “Thank you so much to Gilly and Brian,” said ReWild Wicklow Chairperson Danny Alvey, “They have created such a wonderful nature reserve and it was full of life and colour when we visited last Saturday. This new initiative of theirs is a great idea and will help us so much with our vital work at this turning point in the biodiversity crisis. “We would love to see these small local tree nurseries popping up all over the county. I look forward to returning again later in the summer, and to all of our other rewilding projects across the county, for more volunteering. Biodiversity is currently one of our biggest weaknesses here in Ireland but in Wicklow we can make it one of our biggest strengths. I want to expand the land set aside for nature in this county, connect it together into a network and create local business through eco-tourism.” Wild Acres was established in 2017 when Brian and Gilly purchased 17.5 acres of undulating agricultural land in Scratenagh, on the beautiful Redcross river, with the aim of transforming it into a nature reserve, honey farm and biodiversity education experience. The couple now organise workshops, courses and guided walks for all sorts of groups and also sell locally-produced honey. Brian of Wild Acres said: ““Last year was a mast year so there was an abundance of acorns on our local mature pedunculate oak trees. We gathered 500 of them and in autumn a group of friends helped us plant them in seed trays and approximately 400 germinated. We are so grateful to all the wonderful people that came out on Saturday and worked hard in the sun to transplant these oaklings and do a number of other important tasks for nature around the reserve.” On a windy morning in Arklow the men from Carnew and Aughrim took to the field to contest the final round of the IHC with top spot still all to play for.