We humans only slightly modify our eating patterns during the depths of winter when compared to whitetail deer. Virtually the same food is available to us in the middle of the winter, as at the height of summer. But nature has given us a different survival game plan than whitetails that have to deal with cold, long nights, and ice and snow through the winter months. Deer are forced to radically change their diets when winter sets in. Since they can no longer forage on herbaceous plants and fruits like apples and acorns in season, their gastronomic chemistry must shift. Whitetails have developed a system to assimilate woody browse almost exclusively. That is, they feed on living twigs and buds … the terminal tips. A whitetail's digestive process in the north goes into a different gear with each change of season. In the summer the whitetail's diet is mainly herbaceous plants. In the fall, it shifts to being able to process mast (apples, acorns, beechnuts, etc.). But in the wintertime, the whitetail’s food sources are mostly browse, augmented by fortuitous encounters. Deer get most of their nutrition during the winter, here in the North, mostly on twigs and herbaceous growth. Inside each living twig's tip is an embryonic leaf getting ready to unfold in springtime. Nutrients from each stem concentrate there. And that's where the whitetail finds its wintertime sustenance. The twig tip browse is a lifesaver to northern whitetails in winter. Deer prefer some varieties of trees and shrubs more than others, and often it’s the fancy, expensive imported ornamental shrubbery right next to our houses. Humans in the northeastern United States, on the other hand, eat pretty much the same things as we do all year long. But by being inside more, almost within arm's reach of the refrigerator and a supply of food, we tend to consume quantitatively more than usual, especially during the holiday season. We who live in areas with real winters, in contrast to deer, often gain weight through the winter. (Do I need to remind anyone about our New Year's pledges?) Whitetails lose weight through the winter months, in contrast. Whitetails in the Northeast and Midwest need to have bulked up their fat reserves during summer and autumn to help sustain them through the lean winter months. And fat isn't all they need. Minerals, stored in the animal’s bones, actually create antlers on bucks and the growing embryonic fawn's bones in doe. Bristol Mountain:Section V skiers adjust to soft snow, 'bizarre winter' at championships Outdoors:A second rut brings a second chance for deer hunters However, this year, being relatively mild in most areas, with lack of long periods of significant snow depth and cold, has been easy on deer. People and whitetail deer are alike in that they both "down shift" in winter, and are less active and should eat less. One would think, in comparison to humans, that deer don't have an "inside" or an "outside" always being in the woods, in the outdoors. But whitetails in northern regions often head for preferred wintering areas or "yards" as the snows build up, maybe adjacent to or in a coniferous stand, whether pine or hemlock. While our deer don’t really yard, they still head for cover. In fact temperatures, not to mention the wind chill, in a thick stand of pine or hemlock trees may be as much as 10 to 15 degrees warmer on a cold, sunny day than temperature "outside" in a nearby windswept field. So, deer do head "inside" in the winter, just like we do. And by becoming less active, less food and calories are consumed in the internal metabolic kiln, be it whitetail or human. But whitetails gain little weight during the northeastern winters. In contrast, many humans do. Some deer researchers have postulated that whitetails cut their metabolic rate almost in half during the winter. If whitetails find a concentrated food source, such as at a bird feeder, often the older and larger deer eat first and keep the young, less dominant animals away. The smallest and youngest deer, on the lowest rungs of the pecking order of the herd, many times only watch the larger and older deer eat first. Old doe will lower their ears when a fawn or less dominant deer comes near the food source, glare, and then strike out with her fore feet. Little doe fawns are lowest on the totem pole for dibs at the dinner table. So when someone says at dinner, during the winter, "Please pass the potatoes, I'm ready for seconds," and there is only a spoonful left in the bowl, know that behavioral adaptation at our tables is not so dissimilar to that of the wintertime world of the whitetail deer, in some ways. — Oak Duke writes a weekly column appearing on the Outdoors page of The Spectator.  This article originally appeared on The Evening Tribune: How whitetail deer eating habits change in winter Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105.