19th Aug, 2024 The appeal invites loved ones, friends and supporters to remember someone special by dedicating one of these exclusive sculptures in their memory, and in doing so help the charity’s specialist care teams continue to be there when the unimaginable happens and a parent loses their child. More than 270 dandelions have been dedicated since the campaign launched last week. With limited numbers available, people are being urged to get theirs now and make a meaningful difference as they remember their loved ones. Jo Fleming, Acorns Interim Director of Care, said: “Losing a child is one of the hardest things a parent will ever go through. Acorns Dandelion Appeal is dedicated to raising money to help us continue to be there for those families when the unimaginable happens. “We’ve had such an incredible response to our appeal in its first few days, with our local community really taking its message into their hearts. More than 270 dandelions have been dedicated to honour the lives of much missed loved ones. “Every donation made with them means we can be there for parents facing the loss of their child every step of the way, giving them the vital love, care and support they need.” Each dandelion dedicated will be included in a special Garden of Wishes in a touching spectacle that will see hundreds of these special-edition symbols fill the garden at Acorns for the Three Counties in Worcester. Anyone dedicating a dandelion will be invited to attend the Garden of Wishes for an exclusive viewing before each one is carefully packaged and posted to supporters for them to display in their own garden. Supporters simply wishing to own a dandelion sculpture, can also make a donation without making a dedication. For more information about Acorns Dandelion Appeal and to make your dedication, please visit www.acorns.org.uk/acornsdandelion Receive a weekly update to your inbox by signing up to our weekly newsletter. From plumbers, to restaurants, we can provide you with all the info you need. Weddings, Birthdays, Bereavements, Thank you notices, Marriages and more. We can provide all of your printing needs at competitive rates. The Evesham Observer is one of a group of local weekly newspapers spanning Worcestershire, Warwickshire and the West Midlands published by Bullivant Media Group - each newspaper providing all the latest local news, sport and advertising, in print and 247 on line.