Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	April 05, 2023   	
				         Acorns, the US-based saving and investing app has announced the strategic acquisition of GoHenry and its European arm Pixpay. Founded in 2012 in the U.K., GoHenry is a money management and financial education platform for 6-18-year-olds.
The acquisition will accelerate Acorns’ roadmap by putting the tools of money management and education in the hands of kids, teens, and adults, globally.
GoHenry was founded by a group of friends and parents, including co-founders Louise Hill and Dean Brauer, who felt the need to teach their own kids how to manage money in the digital world. They recognised that there was no simple solution for parents and kids to learn about money – and so a new category in kids’ finance was created.
With key investors, Edison Partners, Revaia, Citi Ventures, Muse Capital, and Nexi, GoHenry continues to expand across Europe and the U.S.
Since its inception, Acorns has helped Americans save and invest over $16 billion, while GoHenry’s young customers saved $130 million in the last five years alone. Together, Acorns and GoHenry have nearly 6 million subscribers.
“All kids around the world deserve access to responsible money management tools and financial education,” said Noah Kerner, CEO of Acorns. “GoHenry’s mission-driven approach is perfectly aligned with Acorns, which we expect will help us accelerate our roadmap and deliver financial wellness to the whole family through all of life’s stages.”
Louise Hill, Co-Founder, GoHenry, added, “Since we started on our mission to make every kid smart with money 10 years ago, we have helped millions of young people do exactly that. This new relationship with Acorns will enable us to reach many millions more. Never has there been a greater need for easy-to-use products that simplify savings and encourage everyone from kids to adults to build strong money habits.”
In the U.S., GoHenry will operate as GoHenry by Acorns. In the U.K. & Europe, GoHenry & PixPay will continue to operate under their own brands.
 Acorns, the US-based saving and investing app has announced the strategic acquisition of GoHenry and its European arm Pixpay. Founded in 2012 in the U.K., GoHenry is a money management and financial education platform for 6-18-year-olds. The acquisition will accelerate Acorns’ roadmap by putting the tools of money management and education in the hands of kids, teens, and adults, globally. GoHenry was founded by a group of friends and parents, including co-founders Louise Hill and Dean Brauer, who felt the need to teach their own kids how to manage money in the digital world. They recognised that there was no simple solution for parents and kids to learn about money – and so a new category in kids’ finance was created. With key investors, Edison Partners, Revaia, Citi Ventures, Muse Capital, and Nexi, GoHenry continues to expand across Europe and the U.S. Since its inception, Acorns has helped Americans save and invest over $16 billion, while GoHenry’s young customers saved $130 million in the last five years alone. Together, Acorns and GoHenry have nearly 6 million subscribers. “All kids around the world deserve access to responsible money management tools and financial education,” said Noah Kerner, CEO of Acorns. “GoHenry’s mission-driven approach is perfectly aligned with Acorns, which we expect will help us accelerate our roadmap and deliver financial wellness to the whole family through all of life’s stages.” Louise Hill, Co-Founder, GoHenry, added, “Since we started on our mission to make every kid smart with money 10 years ago, we have helped millions of young people do exactly that. This new relationship with Acorns will enable us to reach many millions more. Never has there been a greater need for easy-to-use products that simplify savings and encourage everyone from kids to adults to build strong money habits.” In the U.S., GoHenry will operate as GoHenry by Acorns. In the U.K. & Europe, GoHenry & PixPay will continue to operate under their own brands. April 05, 2023 April 05, 2023 July 19, 2024 Acorns August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
