NFL Buckle up for an epic showdown between two rising AFC dynamos! Trevor Lawrence is as locked in as a squirrel with a stash of acorns, surrounded by Travis Etienne and a whole arsenal of offensive weapons. Kenny Pickett is strutting his stuff like a peacock with a posse of supporters, while T.J. Watt and his merry band of defensive warriors are wreaking havoc on the gridiron. Deciding between Lawrence and Pickett is like choosing between a dazzling arm and a nimble gazelle. Lawrence’s athletic prowess is bound to help him unleash a flurry of jaw-dropping plays, leaving Pickett in the dust. You can watch a live stream of the Jaguars vs the Steelers on fuboTV, which offers users a free trial. The NFL Week 8 game between the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Pittsburgh Steelers will be played at Acrisure Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on Sunday 29 October 2023. Kick-off is scheduled for 1:00 p.m. ET / 10:00 a.m. PT. We’re asking fans to arrive early & prepared for Sunday’s #Steelers game!Have your mobile tickets downloaded to your digital wallet & transfer tickets to your guests so everyone has their own ticket saved to their mobile device.More details: https://t.co/da8xCofBVN pic.twitter.com/GH4uHaPOeR The following channels will be broadcasting the game live in the US: CBS And don't forget that your streaming options include fuboTV. Jacksonville Jaguars: Pittsburgh Steelers: NFL NFL The Jaguars are the favorites for this game. The Steelers will try to take the fight to the visitors, but their chances are a bit low against a really good Jacksonville squad. Prediction: Jaguars 20-14 Steelers. About the author Andy Restrepo Andy is a Miami native journalist and translator who is always on top of what sporting activity is taking place across the globe, and he aims to ensure all relevant information is shared with fans. Mainly focused on the US competitions of NBA, NFL and MLS, he also has a keen interest in international soccer, including Spain's LaLiga and the English Premier League among others. Subscribe to our newsletters NFL NFL I PRESEASON NFL DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.