Microsoft is restructuring its proposed Activision Blizzard deal to transfer cloud gaming rights for current and new Activision Blizzard games to Ubisoft. The transfer of rights is designed to appease regulators in the UK that are concerned about the impact Microsoft’s $68.7 billion deal will have cloud gaming competition. The restructured deal has triggered a new regulatory investigation in the UK that could last until October 18th, The Verge reported. “To address the concerns about the impact of the proposed acquisition on cloud game streaming raised by the UK Competition and Markets on cloud game streaming raised by the UK Competition and Markets Authority, we are restructuring the transaction to acquire a narrower set of rights,” says Microsoft president Brad Smith. “This includes executing an agreement effective at the closing of our merger that transfers the cloud streaming rights for all current and new Activision Blizzard PC and console games released over the next 15 years to Ubisoft Entertainment SA, a leading global game publisher. The rights will be in perpetuity.” This restructured deal means that if Microsoft does close its proposed acquisition, then it will not be able to release Activision Blizzard games exclusively control the licensing terms of Activision Blizzard games on rival services. Instead, Ubisoft will control the streaming rights to Activision Blizzard games outside of the EU and license titles back to Microsoft to be included in Xbox Cloud Gaming. According to The Verge, Ubisoft will also add Actvision Blizzard games to its Ubisoft Plus Multi Access subscription, which is available across PC, Xbox, Amazon Luna, and on PlayStation via Ubisoft Plus Classics. The GOV.UK website posted a press release titled: “Microsoft submits new deal for review after CMA confirms original deal is blocked.” From the press release: CMA finalizes decision to block original merger after rejecting submissions by Microsoft to revisit its original decision; Microsoft submits new, restructured deal for review, triggering a fresh Phase 1 investigation by CMA; Under the new deal, Microsoft will not acquire the cloud streaming rights to all current and future Activision games released during the next 15 years (excluding in the EEA). Here is a key part of the press release: …Microsoft has stated that the restructured deal is intended to address the concerns set out in the CMA’s Final Report in April. In particular, the transaction is intended to provide an independent third-party content supplier, Ubisoft, with the ability to supply Activision’s gaming content to all cloud gaming service providers (including to Microsoft itself). Ubisoft will be able to license out Activision’s content under different business models, including subscription services. The deal also proposes that Ubisoft would have the ability to require Microsoft to provide versions of games on operating systems other than Windows… It seems to me that this paragraph implies that Ubisoft will have the ability to require Microsoft to actually put versions of Activision Blizzard’s games on “operating systems other than Windows.” I’m hoping that means that players who use a Mac will finally get access to more games! Proudly powered by PowerPress. Powered by PowerPress Sites.