Vancouver, British Columbia--(Newsfile Corp. - June 16, 2023) - Defence Therapeutics Inc. DTC DTC DTCFF ("Defence" or the "Company"), a Canadian biopharmaceutical company specialized in the development of immune-oncology vaccines and drug delivery technologies is pleased to announce that it reached the final stages of its AccuTOXTM Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls ("CMC") in preparation to IND filling for its Phase I clinical trial to treat melanoma patients at City of Hope, CA, USA.    Every experimental drug must undergo rigorous manufacturing and quality control testing prior to IND submission. Biopeptek Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a renowned US based CDMO dedicated to the production of high-quality peptides for clinical applications, using cutting-edge science and technology, was mandated by Defence Therapeutics to complete these final crucial steps. With its state-of-the-art facilities and experienced scientific team, Biopeptek has optimized formulation and is currently manufacturing and packaging the AccuTOXTM final drug product in vials dedicated for the Phase I clinical trial at City of Hope, CA, USA. Final quality validation and stability studies are being processed to meet with FDA high standards requirements. "This is an important milestone for Defence's AccuTOXTM program. With manufacturing and release assays being completed, Defence is now at the last step to summit its IND filing for Phase I clinical trial using AccuTOXTM as an injectable to treat melanoma," says Mr. Plouffe, CEO and President of Defence.  Biopeptek has already successfully completed a 12-month stability study testing AccuTOXTM active pharmaceutical ingredient ("API"). Testing included temperature fluctuations, humidity as well as strong light treatments. The conclusion is that AccuTOXTM is stable at temperatures ranging from 5 to -20C which is standard for a peptide API approved by Regulatory Agency. AccuTOXTM API meets all manufacturing/stability criteria as a standard peptide API used for clinical trial.  About Defence: Defence Therapeutics is a publicly-traded biotechnology company working on engineering the next generation vaccines and ADC products using its proprietary platform. The core of Defence Therapeutics platform is the ACCUMTM technology, which enables precision delivery of vaccine antigens or ADCs in their intact form to target cells. As a result, increased efficacy and potency can be reached against catastrophic illness such as cancer and infectious diseases. For further information:Sebastien Plouffe, President, CEO and DirectorP: (514) 947-2272Splouffe@defencetherapeutics.comwww.defencetherapeutics.com Cautionary Statement Regarding "Forward-Looking" Information This release includes certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than statements of historical facts, that address events or developments that the Company expects to occur, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words "expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects", "potential" and similar expressions, or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may", "could" or "should" occur. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include regulatory actions, market prices, and continued availability of capital and financing, and general economic, market or business conditions. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs, estimates and opinions of the Company's management on the date the statements are made. Except as required by applicable securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the event that management's beliefs, estimates or opinions, or other factors, should change. Neither the CSE nor its market regulator, as that term is defined in the policies of the CSE, accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.  To view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/170134  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.