Some clouds in the morning will give way to mainly sunny skies for the afternoon. Hot. High 99F. Winds ESE at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Mostly clear skies. Low 74F. Winds ESE at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 11:34 pm   In the summer of 2023, the city of Allen hired consulting companies Direct Access Consultancy LLC and Cole & Associates to assess how Allen's parks can be more ADA accessible. Residents who couldn't attend the June 12 ADA Transition Plan public meeting can leave feedback by taking an online survey through July 6. This online survey will help the city of Allen staff and the consultant team better understand how Allen residents view the current state of inclusivity at parks and facilities. It will also provide a glimpse of their experiences, challenges, and what Allen needs to be considered a truly inclusive community. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. Winston Henvey is the reporter for the Mesquite News, Allen American and Plano Star Courier. Email him with story suggestions at whenvey@starlocalmedia.com.      
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Get breaking news delivered to your inbox from around Star Local Media when it happens. A weekly recap of all the sports news from around Star Local Media. Discover unbeatable savings with Star Local Deals! Sign up now to receive a weekly dose of fantastic offers and deals from our trusted advertisers. Whether it's discounts on products, services, or local experiences, we've got your savings covered.  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.