Boise Police Cpl. Casey Hancuff, a 29-year veteran of the department who was known for citing thousands of drunken drivers, was sentenced to one year of unsupervised probation after he pleaded guilty to driving under the influence. Fourth District Magistrate Judge Adam Kimball during the sentencing granted Hancuff a withheld judgment, which means that so long as he follows the terms of his probation, he’ll never be convicted of the crime. “This undoubtedly — in this courthouse, in this community, in this state — is going to be a stain on your career,” Kimball said during the sentencing. An Eagle officer stopped Hancuff around 1 a.m. May 15 after police said he was “driving erratically” on Idaho 44, Ada County sheriff’s spokesperson Patrick Orr previously told the Idaho Statesman. His blood alcohol content was .111, Orr said, which is past the legal limit of .08. “I apologize for even being here and taking the court’s time,” Hancuff said. “I make no excuses for what I did that night.” Hancuff was also ordered to complete 40 hours of community service in lieu of five days in jail. Typically a defendant would work on the Ada County Sheriff’s Labor Detail, but Kimball said it would be impractical for Hancuff, so he was given the option to complete the service with a government agency or nonprofit. In Idaho, individuals’ first DUI is punishable by up to six months in county jail, along with a maximum fine of $1,000. They could also lose their driver’s license for up to six months. Kimball suspended Hancuff’s license for 150 days but granted him a restricted license for any work or medical needs. Boise-based attorney James Keith Ball, who is representing Hancuff, said the conviction was a “very serious situation” and that Hancuff was taking it seriously. Ball said Hancuff has been dealing with some personal issues that contributed to the circumstances of his arrest, but that he wasn’t making any excuses for Hancuff’s behavior. Hancuff has been diagnosed with stage two cancer and recently had surgery, Ball told the court, adding that Hancuff’s father died earlier this year. Kimball said he’s seen a lot of officers testify in court, and that a lot of the young officers look to Hancuff as a role model. He added that he didn’t believe Hancuff would be back in court on a secondary DUI and that his court-ordered evaluations showed he was at a low risk of reoffending. Hancuff is a part of the police department’s Night STEP team, or Selected Traffic Enforcement Program, which focuses on the city’s DUI arrests, according to the city’s website. He’s made more than 3,500 DUI arrests throughout his career and was recognized by Mothers Against Drunk Drivers in April 2021. “There’s something I will learn from this, and I believe it will help me, hopefully, assist others to make better decisions than I did that night,” Hancuff said. Ball said Hancuff was still employed with the police department and the agency plans to work with him. “That just goes to show you what they are willing to do for him,” Ball said. Kimball ordered that an ignition interlock device be placed in Hancuff’s personal vehicle for the next year but waived the device for any work vehicles. An interlock device is a breathalyzer that requires the driver to breathe into it before the car starts. Hancuff during probation also can’t drink or possess alcohol, which Ball said wouldn’t be an issue because Hancuff “hasn’t been drinking.” Kimball added that Hancuff would be allowed to handle alcohol for work, such as when a suspect had an open container. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.