The parents of a Jacksonville University student who died by suicide are suing the school and its former track and cross-country coach accused of berating and bullying her.  Julia Pernsteiner, 23, died in her dorm room in November 2021, less than a year after she transferred from the University of Pikeville in Kentucky. The wrongful-death lawsuit by Ray and Lynne Pernsteiner cites JU negligence as well as breach of contract and failure to follow requirements of the federal Title IX protection against sex discrimination, the Americans with Disabilities Act and another civil rights law known as the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The lawsuit, filed this month in Circuit Court in Jacksonville, also accuses longtime coach Ron Grigg of intentional infliction of emotional distress and says JU shares responsibility for harm Grigg did during a tenure once praised for teams' success. Grigg recruited Pernsteiner to JU but dismissed her from the team two months before her death, the suit says. Students and suicide: What does the 2021 Youth Behavior Survey reveal in Jacksonville? Youth crisis: One in eight Jacksonville high school students have attempted suicide Pernsteiner had learning disabilities that affected her reading, writing and math skills and required use of assistants and other help that JU agreed to as “reasonable accommodations” under the ADA, the lawsuit says. But it says the school didn’t meet its commitment, recounting that her grades fell after she enrolled for summer courses and learned that an academic support center she depended on was closed in summer but she wasn’t allowed to drop the classes. While she contended with coursework, Pernsteiner trained with the cross-country team and faced “a toxic atmosphere of humiliation and intimidation” as the coach disparaged and "fat-shamed" runners, according to the lawsuit. “Teammates recall Grigg taking a special satisfaction in humiliating Julia, referring to her as ‘retarded,’ ‘the slowest f------ runner on the team’ and unable to ‘wipe your own a--,’” the suit says. “Julia, already struggling academically, now found that the sport she loved and found comfort in was the source of her coach’s targeted ridicule and harassment.” Pernsteiner and other team members complained to JU’s administration about the coach, but “the school closed ranks around Grigg and refused to take any action,” the lawsuit states. “As long as Grigg’s teams were competitive, JU tolerated his outrageous behavior towards team members.” The lawsuit quotes an email it says Pernsteiner sent to Athletic Director Alex Ricker-Gilbert the month before her death, saying she was “more than heartbroken” about being dropped from the team. “My coach knew my times when he recruited me to come to JU and he knew about my grades at UPike. I am not the slowest one,” says the email, seeking guidance on how to improve her situation. “… I just don’t know where to go from here,” it says. “I rely on the athletic academic help to do well. I would like to stay and work on improving my grades. I just am not able to do it myself. I’m looking for advice on how to proceed.” Youth issues: Times-Union, I'm A Star Foundation host discussion about kids, COVID 19 and mental health Here Tomorrow: At son's funeral, Jacksonville father vows to start suicide-prevention group The suit says Pernsteiner’s requests for help weren’t answered and her concerns “spiraled into desperation and depression.” Through a spokeswoman who was asked for comment, JU said Friday that “the students, faculty and staff of Jacksonville University continue to mourn Julia’s tragic death and we sympathize with the Pernsteiner family for their loss. Per university policy, we do not comment on pending litigation.” Grigg, who had worked at JU since 1998, resigned in July after Ricker-Gilbert reported the school received "concerning information" about the treatment of student-athletes. Grigg couldn't be contacted Friday. This article originally appeared on Florida Times-Union: Jacksonville University, ex-track coach sued over student suicide New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.