
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Newsfile Corp)  AdAlta to Present at August 24th Virtual Investor Summit
Melbourne, Australia--(Newsfile Corp. - August 16, 2023) - AdAlta Limited (ASX: 1AD), the clinical stage drug discovery company developing novel therapeutic products from its i-body platform, today announced that its CEO and Managing Director, Dr Tim Oldham, would be presenting at the Virtual Investor Summit on 24 August, hosted by Investor Summit Group.During his presentation at the Summit, Dr Oldham will describe the products that AdAlta is developing to treat challenging diseases such as fibrosis and cancer, all underpinned by the company's proprietary i-body technology. A specific focus of the presentation will be the recent return to clinic for lead program AD-214's Phase I extension study and the partnering and licensing transaction opportunities across the portfolio. The virtual presentation will be recorded, and a copy made available on AdAlta's website.       Event:     August 24th Investor Summit         Presentation:     August 24, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. EST / 11:00 p.m. AEST         Location:             One-on-ones will be available for qualified investors   The conference is completely complimentary to qualified investors. Please register at complimentary investor registration     About AdAlta Limited  AdAlta Limited, a clinical stage biotechnology company, is focused on generating a pipeline of next generation therapeutics to treat challenging diseases in fibrosis and oncology. The Company's lead drug candidate, AD-214, addresses the need for improved therapies for degenerative and fatal fibrotic diseases such as Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (US$4.3b market). AD-214 has compelling preclinical data in multiple animal models and was well tolerated in Phase I clinical studies for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and other fibrotic diseases. AdAlta's collaboration with GE Healthcare seeks to identify non-responders to immuno-oncology drugs before their tumour progresses by developing i-body enabled PET imaging agents against granzyme B, and enzyme secreted by activated immune cells. AdAlta's collaboration with Carina Biotech Pty Ltd aims to bring the promise of CAR-T cell therapy to patients with solid tumours by producing multi-functional, i-body directed CAR-T cell products against solid tumor antigens. AdAlta uses its proprietary i-body technology platform to solve challenging drug targeting problems and generate a promising new class of single domain antibody protein therapeutics, where traditional formats are sub-optimal. AdAlta Limited listed in 2016 and is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia.  For more information, please contact:    Investors  Tim Oldham, CEO & Managing DirectorTel: +61 403 446 665E:    Media  IR DepartmentTel: +61 411 117 774E:    About the Investor Summit  the investor summit is an exclusive, independent conference dedicated to connecting smallcap and microcap companies with qualified investors. The Investor Summit will take place virtually, featuring micro-cap companies and institutional, family office, and high net worth investors. Sectors Participating: Biotech, Communication Services, Consumer, Energy, Technology, Financial, Healthcare, Industrials, Materials, Real Estate. Contact:  To view the source version of this press release, please visit  MENAFN16082023004218003983ID1106867612 Melbourne, Australia--(Newsfile Corp. - August 16, 2023) - AdAlta Limited (ASX: 1AD), the clinical stage drug discovery company developing novel therapeutic products from its i-body platform, today announced that its CEO and Managing Director, Dr Tim Oldham, would be presenting at the Virtual Investor Summit on 24 August, hosted by Investor Summit Group. During his presentation at the Summit, Dr Oldham will describe the products that AdAlta is developing to treat challenging diseases such as fibrosis and cancer, all underpinned by the company's proprietary i-body technology. A specific focus of the presentation will be the recent return to clinic for lead program AD-214's Phase I extension study and the partnering and licensing transaction opportunities across the portfolio. The virtual presentation will be recorded, and a copy made available on AdAlta's website.     About AdAlta Limited   AdAlta Limited, a clinical stage biotechnology company, is focused on generating a pipeline of next generation therapeutics to treat challenging diseases in fibrosis and oncology. The Company's lead drug candidate, AD-214, addresses the need for improved therapies for degenerative and fatal fibrotic diseases such as Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (US$4.3b market). AD-214 has compelling preclinical data in multiple animal models and was well tolerated in Phase I clinical studies for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and other fibrotic diseases. AdAlta's collaboration with GE Healthcare seeks to identify non-responders to immuno-oncology drugs before their tumour progresses by developing i-body enabled PET imaging agents against granzyme B, and enzyme secreted by activated immune cells. AdAlta's collaboration with Carina Biotech Pty Ltd aims to bring the promise of CAR-T cell therapy to patients with solid tumours by producing multi-functional, i-body directed CAR-T cell products against solid tumor antigens. AdAlta uses its proprietary i-body technology platform to solve challenging drug targeting problems and generate a promising new class of single domain antibody protein therapeutics, where traditional formats are sub-optimal. AdAlta Limited listed in 2016 and is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia.   For more information, please contact:     Investors  Tim Oldham, CEO & Managing DirectorTel: +61 403 446 665E:     Media  IR DepartmentTel: +61 411 117 774E:     About the Investor Summit   the investor summit is an exclusive, independent conference dedicated to connecting smallcap and microcap companies with qualified investors. The Investor Summit will take place virtually, featuring micro-cap companies and institutional, family office, and high net worth investors. Sectors Participating: Biotech, Communication Services, Consumer, Energy, Technology, Financial, Healthcare, Industrials, Materials, Real Estate. Contact:   To view the source version of this press release, please visit   MENAFN16082023004218003983ID1106867612 MENAFN16082023004218003983ID1106867612 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN