Anne-Marie is "so excited" to be celebrating "90s nostalgia" in a new collaboration with Specsavers. The 32-year-old pop star has teamed up with the optical brand to showcase her style in line with the launch of the brand new Adidas Originals Sports range. She said: “I’m so excited to be partnering with Specsavers to launch their new adidas range. "Style is important to me because it expresses who I am, my mood and how I’m feeling without having to say a word! 90s nostalgia inspires me and my music as it feels very unfiltered and I love that. "The two brands coming together have created an effortless way to add your own stamp to a sport and street style look. The new collection has been described as an intersection of sport and street style and is a visionary twist on 90s nostalgia, whilst in keeping with the heritage vales of Adidas. The eye wear range is exclusively available at Specsavers and features frames in blue and green as well as handcrafted crystal bio-acetate. Other frames also include the gold trefoil logo on classic black frames and laser-engraved two-tone temple detailing. Yuen Sum Cheung, Head of Frame Development at Specsavers, added: "It’s been fantastic to work with the adidas team to design and launch this brilliant new range, we’ve been blown away by the response so far. We’re big fans of Anne-Marie and were excited to hear that she has made the frames part of her new style. We hope people enjoy the drop and manage to get their hands on the new free frames, but if you miss out this time, you can always come to Specsavers!" Head to a participating Specsavers store between 9am and 10am on Thursday (25.05.23) and show a member of staff either Anne-Marie or Specsavers' Instagram post which announces the drop, for the chance to get your hands on a bespoke voucher covering the cost of a pair of adidas prescription glasses or sunglasses – but there’s only 100 up for grabs. Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. "We still have hope and will never give up" King Charles's cancer diagnosis was announced six months ago, but the type of cancer he is fighting has never been disclosed for a very specific reason, it has been claimed Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." The singer-dancer wore her most naked look for a daring cover with Perfect Magazine featuring a make-shift bikini bottoms and no top... The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. A driver captured the moment a £175k Bentley was driven down a motorway - while missing a tyre. Joseph Grieve, 27, was heading along the M25 near London en route to Nürburgring, Nürburg, Germany, with his mate when he spotted the luxury motor chugging along. At around 6am, Joseph noticed sparks flying on the road when the Bentley Flying Spur roared pass him - with only three tyres. Joseph, a carer, from Carlisle, Cumbria, said: "My mate got his first passport and wanted to go to the Nürburgring. "We were on the way and I noticed those bloody sparks coming off the car. "I saw them and I was like 'what the hell?' "I never thought I'd see such an expensive Bentley missing a tyre." The video was filmed on July 30, 2024. With millions set to lose out on the winter fuel payments this year, the expert revealed another way to boost your income.