NEW YORK, April 10, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The sports sunglasses market size is set to grow by USD 1.40 billion between 2021 and 2026 and register a CAGR of 7.53%, according to Technavio's latest market research report estimates. With a focus on identifying dominant industry influencers, Technavio's reports present a detailed study by the way of synthesis, and summation of data from multiple sources. This report offers an up-to-date analysis of the current market scenario, the latest trends and drivers, and the overall market environment. Technavio offers in-depth market insights that assist global businesses to obtain growth opportunities. Read our Sample Report 



 Sports sunglasses market 2022-2026: Segmentation The growth of the offline segment will be significant during the forecast period. The presence of various specialty stores, hypermarkets, and supermarkets in different regions allows consumers to choose from a wide range of sports sunglasses, depending on their price, quality, and other aspects. Such factors will drive the growth of the segment during the forecast period. APAC will account for 39% of the market growth during the forecast period. Factors such as the significant increase in interest in sports such as football, badminton, and cricket; an increase in sports facilities in schools and colleges; and marketing initiatives by vendors will facilitate the sports sunglasses market growth in APAC during the forecast period.  Why Buy? Grow your profit margin with Technavio - Buy the Report Sports sunglasses market 2022-2026: Vendor Analysis and Scope The market is fragmented, with the presence of several regional and global vendors. Vendors compete based on several factors such as quality, price, service, brand image, distribution, and marketing. Moreover, most vendors are focusing on acquiring small brands to increase their market presence. The increasing competition among vendors may lead to a decline in their product prices, which can negatively impact profit margins and the growth of the market. Some of the key vendors covered in the report include: The report also covers the following areas: Sports sunglasses market 2022-2026: Market Dynamics Drivers, trends, and challenges have an impact on market dynamics, which can impact businesses. Find more insights in a sample report! Sports sunglasses market 2022-2026: Key Highlights Gain instant access to 17,000+ market research reports.  Technavio's SUBSCRIPTION platform Related Reports: Sports Sunglasses Market Scope Report Coverage Details Base year 2021 Forecast period 2022-2026 Growth momentum & CAGR Accelerate at a CAGR of 7.53% Market growth 2022-2026 USD 1.40 billion Market structure Fragmented YoY growth 2021-2022 (%) 7.71 Regional analysis Europe, APAC, North America, South America, and Middle East and Africa Performing market contribution APAC at 39% Key countries US, Canada, China, Japan, and UK Competitive landscape Leading Vendors, Market Positioning of Vendors, Competitive Strategies, and Industry Risks Key companies profiled adidas AG, AMO, Asg International SRL, Bolle Brands France SAS, Columbia Sportswear Co., Decathlon Group, JULBO SA, Liberty Sport Inc., Luxottica Group Spa, Marcolin Spa, MAUI JIM INC., Nike Inc., Ocean Eyewear, Pilla Inc., PUMA SE, Rudy Project SpA, Safilo Group Spa, Suncloud Optics, Under Armour Inc., and Yiwu Conchen Glasses Co. Ltd. Market dynamics Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers and obstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis, COVID-19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, and Market condition analysis for the forecast period. Customization purview If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and get segments customized. Browse through Technavio's Consumer Discretionary Market Reports Table of contents: 1. Executive Summary  2 Market Landscape 3 Market Sizing 4 Five Forces Analysis 5 Market Segmentation by Distribution Channel 6 Customer Landscape 7 Geographic Landscape 8 Drivers, Challenges, and Trends 9 Vendor Landscape 10 Vendor Analysis 11 Appendix About Us Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focus on emerging market trends and provide actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios. Contact Technavio ResearchJesse MaidaMedia & Marketing ExecutiveUS: +1 844 364 1100UK: +44 203 893 3200Email: media@technavio.comWebsite: www.technavio.com/ 



  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sports-sunglasses-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-1-40-billion-between-2021-and-2026-adidas-ag-amo-among-others-identified-as-key-vendors---technavio-301791772.html SOURCE  Technavio © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.