Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Brittany Vincent
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein, 
                              
              Fox Van Allen
 
Updated on:  August 12, 2024 / 7:04 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Gaming PCs can be pricier than their console counterparts, but in many cases they're absolutely worth it. While experts may want to customize their machine, some gamers just want an easy setup that doesn't cost too much. A pre-built gaming computer is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways to go, even if you're just starting out in the PC gaming ecosystem. It can be an economical choice for hardcore enthusiasts too. Opting for a pre-built gaming PC means you don't have to order parts or put them together. You just plug in your new computer and go. You get better, more complete warranties and even professional tech support in some cases, which can be a huge help if you run into problems you can't solve. And when it comes to PC gaming, there can be quite a few. But how do you choose which pre-built gaming PC is for you? We've done all the work for you. From the best of the best to compact and affordable options, find some of our favorites below. And be sure to kit it out with a keyboard, a desk and gaming chair, as well as other accessories to complete the package.  If you're a PC gamer, you'll want a great gaming tower. Explore the best gaming PC towers from top PC brands like Lenovo and HP.  The Predator Orion 7000 is a total beast of a pre-built gaming rig, with some serious firepower under the hood. It comes equipped with an Intel Core i9-13900KF processor and an Nvidia RTX 4090 GPU. That's more than enough to handle even the most demanding games without breaking a sweat.  There's more behind this powerful PC as well, as it comes with a whopping 64 gigs of speedy DDR5 RAM on board as well as support for up to two 1TB SSDs or two 3-terabyte hard drives, depending on your storage needs. But one of its biggest draws is the new motherboard included in the build, which means it will be easier to upgrade to future Intel CPUs down the line. Plus, it all comes housed in a sleek, great-looking case that's ready to fit into your gaming room. All you have to do is jump in and start gaming.  Whether you're a hardcore gamer or a content-creation pro, the Predator Orion 7000 is ready to handle it all. This rig is an absolute powerhouse that's sure to impress. If you're in the market for a top-tier prebuilt PC, you'd be crazy not to check out the Predator Orion 7000. The Asus ROG G22CH is an impressive gaming PC in a small package. With a 14th Gen Intel Core i7-14700F CPU and an Nvidia RTX 4060 Ti GPU, it's a great option for anyone looking to tackle the latest games without taking up too much real estate on their desk.  Plus, it's got up to 32 gigs of fast DDR5 RAM and a 1TB NVMe SSD, which means tons of processing power for multitasking and storage space for everything else. Its surprisingly small size is one of its most impressive things about it, since it still manages to serve 1080p gaming and an impressive 1440p performance. The mesh-paneled design also helps keep everything nice and cool too, even when you're really pushing it. Of course, the compact size means you're a bit limited on upgrade options. But the base configuration has more than enough horsepower for most gamers. And at a pretty competitive price point, the ROG G22CH is a killer value. The HP Victus 15L is a budget-friendly pre-built computer that's worth the relatively low entry fee. But that doesn't mean it isn't capable of firepower where it counts. It comes with an Intel Core i7-13700 CPU and an Nvidia RTX 3060 graphics card. That's a combo that can handle most games without any issue.  The memory situation is decent too, with support for up to 16GB of DDR4 RAM. And for storage, you get a fast 512GB SSD paired with a roomy 1TB hard drive, which is more than enough pace for all your games and apps, or whatever else you need to store.  Now, the Victus 15L isn't going to blow you away with its graphics at higher resolutions, but for 1080p gaming, it's more than capable. The compact design is also a plus if you're tight on desk space. It's got a clean, understated look that should fit into most setups without being too flashy, especially if you aren't a big fan of "gamer RGB" design.  If you want to get into PC gaming without breaking the bank, the Victus 15L is definitely worth a look. The Alienware Aurora R15 is all about raising the bar when it come sto gaming performance, with an Intel Core i9-13900KF CPU and a Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090 GPU with 24GB of VRAM.  This powerful (and pricey) computer is designed to handle the most demanding games and applications with ease. And it does, of course, but you're going to pay the price for it at checkout. It has 64GB RAM, so multitasking is easy as pie, and its 1TB SSD means you have plenty of space to store all your downloaded games and then some.  The PC also has a beautiful chassis with an advanced cooling system. Its thermal management system helps its CPU perform better when under heavy loads. There's also good ventilation on the side panels that make everything quieter and more efficient.  The only downside is its proprietary motherboard, which means you can't include it in upgrades. But the GPU, RAM, and CPU are accessible and there's plenty of room for expanding its storage. This is a ridiculously powerful rig in an expensive package, but it's a top performer for the right person.  If you prefer your PCs portable, there's a great option that's pre-built for you, too with a handheld gaming PC. The Lenovo Legion Go has an 8.8-inch QHD touchscreen with a resolution of 2,560 x 1,600 pixels, a maximum brightness of 500 nits and a 144Hz refresh rate. It boots Windows 11 and uses an AMD Ryzen Z1 series processor.  It's ready to play right from the start, with support for the Legion Space gaming hub and Xbox Game Pass. You can also use the Gamesplanet Store, where you can get discounts on some PC games with a Lenovo ID.   You can use the Legion Go in three gameplay modes: handheld, tabletop and TV. It can also connect to a computer monitor or be paired with Legion Glasses (sold separately) for AR and VR experiences if that's of interest. It comes with dual 2-watt speakers, which are quite loud, but it can pair with Bluetooth headphones, or wireless earbuds instead.  If you don't want to be locked to the Steam ecosystem with a Valve Steam Deck, this is a great handheld PC that you'll be quite satisfied with, especially when you try your first game on the go.  Brittany Vincent has been covering gaming, tech, and all things entertainment for 16 years for a variety of online and print publications. She's been covering the commerce space for nearly a decade. Follow her on Twitter at @MolotovCupcake. 
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          In an exclusive TV interview with CBS News political correspondent Caitlin Huey-Burns on Monday, former President Donald Trump defended hurling personal insults at his Democratic opponent, Vice President Kamala Harris, saying he's going to continue to speak his mind because he thinks "she'll destroy our country" if she wins in November.
         
          Images show the first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons. NASA says the moon will be visible and shining brightly through Wednesday. These are videos of the moon from Sydney, Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
         
          In an exclusive TV interview with CBS News' Caitlin Huey-Burns, former President Donald Trump said he supports a child tax credit but didn't specify the amount. Trump also spoke about Vice President Kamala Harris, the economy and more.
         
          President Biden and first lady Jill Biden toured the stage at the Democratic National Convention on Monday before the president delivered the keynote address for the night. CBS News chief White House correspondent Nancy Cordes has more.
         
          Rep. Jennifer McClellan, a Democrat from Virginia, joins CBS News from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris' campaign against former President Donald Trump.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.