Photoshop is the best photo editing software we've tested, but its subscription price adds up. Here are some worthy replacements that could do what you need for less money. PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Nothing can completely replace Adobe Photoshop if you need its whizbang, technological-marvel features. Its content-aware cropping, automatic background removal, strong collaboration tools, AI-based neural filters, and plug-in support simply aren't found in any other software. But if you need just the standard photo editing software for correcting brightness and colors, working with raw camera files, adding text with drop shadows, or working with layers, then Photoshop could be overkill. Some excellent alternatives to Photoshop have the same tools and often dip into AI-assisted features, too.  You may be able to do everything you thought you needed Photoshop for with something less expensive. Read on to see how our list of the best alternatives to Photoshop can fit your needs. If not, you may find that Photoshop's $19.99-per-month subscription is a better deal than you'd previously thought. The best alternative to Photoshop may come from Adobe itself: Adobe Photoshop Elements. This one-time-purchase app includes a good many Photoshop features, such as filters, image adjustments, layers, auto subject select, blemish and object removal, sky replacement, and text overlays. It's decidedly targeted at consumer enthusiasts rather than professional image editors. It features many Guided Edits that take users through the steps of embellishing or correcting photos, but it lacks Photoshop's most advanced tools, such as Neural Filters and cloud-based collaboration. By itself, Photoshop Elements costs $99.99, but you can bundle it with Adobe's consumer video software, Premiere Elements, for $149.99. If Photoshop Elements has more power and features than you need and you want to stick with Adobe products, another option is Photoshop Express. Photoshop Express is free, though you may run into a paywall for some features, and it's really designed to be used by people who are making marketing materials. Capture One Pro is usually thought of as a Lightroom competitor, and it excels at rendering raw camera files with excellent detail and colors. But the program also includes plenty of features found in Photoshop, in particular, its layer and mask tools, making it a great Adobe Photoshop alternative for professionals. You also get curves and deep color-editing tools but no text or drawing tools aside from watermarking and markup to point things out to collaborators. This photo editor is not especially cheap at $299 for the one-time-payment option (at the time of writing) or as a subscription for $179 per year or a whopping $24 per month, making the monthly price higher than Photoshop's. Corel's PaintShop Pro is probably the best-known, longest-running, full-on competitor to Adobe Photoshop. It's less expensive than Photoshop, does all the major things you can do in Photoshop, and even supports the market leader's PSD file format. You can work with raw camera files, vector graphics, and layers, just like in Photoshop. Not only that, it supports plug-ins and drawing directly on Windows tablet screens. It even boasts AI tools like AI Upsampling, AI Artifact Removal, AI Denoise, AI Style Transfer, and AI Background Replacement. Apple fans need not apply, however, as PaintShop Pro is strictly Windows-only. Given its lower price, it's our top budget pick among the best Photoshop alternatives. Another popular budget pick for Photoshop alternatives is Serif Affinity Photo, though we find it's less polished than Corel PaintShop Pro. CyberLink PhotoDirector supplies the functions of both Lightroom and Photoshop with both workflow and pixel-level editing tools. So you can do not only your Lightroom-style importing, raw conversion, tagging, and camera profile corrections but also your Photoshop-like layers, filters, masks, text overlays, and retouching. It, too, offers AI-powered tools, including object removal, denoise, image enlarger, and deblur. You can buy the software as a one-time purchase or subscribe (at a much lower cost than Photoshop) to get an ever-updated flow of new effects, templates, and stock imagery. We think CyberLink PhotoDirector is the best Adobe Photoshop alternative for enthusiasts (nonprofessionals, that is). Like Photoshop, Skylum Luminar Neo lets you use layers, raw camera files, and loads of filters. As its name suggests, it excels at fixing skies, but it also has a few unique tools up its sleeves, like AI Relight to change lighting based on depth and its one-press powerline removal tool. You also get AI masking, object erasing, and powerful portrait retouching tools. You don't get anything like Lightroom's workflow and organization features, but remember, we're replacing Photoshop here, not Lightroom. That said, unlike Photoshop and PaintShop Pro, Luminar is only about photo editing and enhancing: You don't get drawing and text overlay features. If you want its special tools but still want to stick with the Adobe software, you can use Luminar as a plug-in in Photoshop and Lightroom Classic. ACDSee has been in the digital imaging game for nearly as long as Adobe. The ACDSee Photo Studio Ultimate software package is wide-ranging in its capabilities, which include both photo workflow organization and detailed image correction, editing, and enhancement. You get Photoshop-style layer editing, curves, and gradients, along with Lightroom-style importing, raw file conversion, and even face recognition. Remove or blur the background with its AI features, add text or drawings, or apply dozens of striking effects. The program even offers online storage for syncing your photos to the cloud. GIMP is free and open software with enthusiastic fans and a large toolbox of image editing features. It's typically seen as the best free alternative to Photoshop. Just don't expect a modern, pleasing, intuitive interface, fast performance, or the latest AI tools. Many features require you to install plug-ins manually, even for common things like opening raw camera files. But if you're willing to put in the work, you get a program that can accomplish all of Photoshop's major functions for free, as long as you're willing to live without its state-of-the-art editing, collaboration, and learning tools. ON1 Photo RAW is another all-in-one photo app that includes organizing features found in Lightroom and image-manipulation tools found in Photoshop. It even has an AI masking selection, text overlays, a healing brush, a clone stamp, and layers. Like Lightroom, ON1 Photo Raw lets you work in nondestructive mode, in which the original image isn't altered, and the edits are stored separately. As the name suggests, working with raw camera files is the program's bread and butter, and you can keep your collection organized with keyword tags, albums, and geotags, and it will even sync photos to cloud storage. It's a huge toolset, but as with all the other alternatives, you still miss out on Photoshop's state-of-the-art capabilities and slickest of interfaces. Photopea is the closest thing to an online version of Photoshop you can find (aside from Adobe's own online version of Photoshop), though it more closely resembles GIMP. Like both of those apps, Photopea has masking (raster and vector), layers, raw camera file support, text overlays, drawing tools, and even the Photoshop-like Subject Select and Smart Objects. It works with all popular image formats as well as AI, PSD, PDF, FIG, sketch, and popular raw camera file formats. Photopea even takes over the browser's right-click context menus, so you can use them for editing rather than just for browser functions. If you want more of an installed-app feel, an Install option sets it up as a progressive web app. Photopea includes templates for social image sizes like Facebook or YouTube cover pages as well as standard photo, print, screen, and mobile sizes. It even has Artboards. The app now incorporates some image generation from Stable Diffusion and other models, but only for paid accounts. Forget Photoshop's reliable generative AI and Neural AI-powered filters, though. Photopea's interface is less slick and helpful than Photoshop's as well. You can export your work to a choice of 16 formats, including JPG, PNG, SVG, and WebP. Photopea can work with online storage services like Dropbox, Google Drive, and OneDrive, and it includes its own Peadrive online storage. The web app is free to use, but a $5-per-month subscription removes a time limit on advanced features like AI image generation, increases Peadrive storage from 0.5GB to 5GB, removes ads, and doubles history steps. Note that we have not yet fully reviewed Photopea, which is why no rating for it appears here. A reasonable place to get started with photo editing is to use the free, included applications that come with your operating system: Apple Photos for macOS and iOS, Google Photos for Android, and Microsoft Photos for Windows. They give you basic light and color editing tools in simple interfaces. If you're interested in building your photo editing chops with more Photoshop-like editing, Adobe Photoshop Elements is a simpler version of Adobe's software with more handholding, and its many Guided Edits take you through the steps of creating both standard and advanced effects.  Lightroom, the non-Classic version, is also worth a look. Lightroom gives users access to the Discover community, where photographers and editors share their entire process from raw image to final product. You can even submit your photos to the community and let them edit your work.  Desktop operating systems typically include photo software that can serve consumers' needs at no extra cost. For example, the Microsoft Photos app included with Windows 11 may surprise some users with its capabilities. In a touch-friendly interface, it gives you a good level of image correction, auto-tagging, blemish removal, face recognition, and even raw camera file support. It can automatically create editable albums based on photos' dates and locations. On macOS, Apple Photos does those things, too. Both programs sync with online storage services: iCloud for Apple and OneDrive for Microsoft. (You can now access iCloud Photos in Windows 11's Photos app, too.) Both included photo apps let you search based on detected object types, like "tree" or "cat" in the application. Apple Photos supports plug-ins like the excellent Perfectly Clear and Topaz DeNoise. Ubuntu Linux users are also covered when it comes to free included photo software. One option for them is the capable-enough Shotwell app. For more sophisticated editing, the venerable GNU Image Manipulation Program, better known as GIMP, is available for Windows and Mac as well as for Linux. It has a ton of Photoshop-style plug-ins and editing capabilities but very little in the way of creature comforts or usability. For free Lightroom-style workflow options, look to the open-source Darktable and RawTherapee applications. While you're deciding which is the best alternative to Adobe Photoshop for you, read our detailed reviews of the best photo editing software to help you make an informed decision. If you're mostly working on photos rather than illustrations, you might also want to see PCMag's list of the best digital cameras. And for some help with creating those images, read up on our beyond-basic digital photography tips. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. Prior to my current role, I covered software and apps for ExtremeTech, and before that I headed up PCMag’s enterprise software team, but I’m happy to be back in the more accessible realm of consumer software. I’ve attended trade shows of Microsoft, Google, and Apple and written about all of them and their products. I’m an avid bird photographer and traveler—I’ve been to 40 countries, many with great birds! Because I’m also a classical fan and former performer, I’ve reviewed streaming services that emphasize classical music. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.