Buyers of the new phones unveiled at Galaxy Unpacked will have to use our Editors’ Choice photo workflow software to edit Expert RAW images. PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. Samsung's Galaxy S23 reveal at its Unpacked event this week included a number of camera-related enhancements—a 200-megapixel mode, 8K30 video shooting, optical image stabilization, laser autofocus, and Nightography, just to name a few. It also touted the Expert RAW photo file format used in the phone’s cameras. The feature is Samsung’s answer to the ProRAW format used in Apple’s top-end iPhones. Both formats combine the raw image data from the sensor with computational photo wizardry courtesy of the phone’s processing hardware. For years I’ve been urging readers who are serious about good photography to shoot to raw file formats, because it gives you so much control when editing images after the shot, compared with using the JPG format. JPG is a compressed, lossy format that’s a best guess based on the sensor data for a final product. When you shoot in raw format, you get all the image data from the sensor, and in the case of Expert RAW, that’s combined with the phone’s image enhancements. Not all photo software can handle all cameras’ raw formats, and that’s just as true of the Expert RAW format, which, by the way, supports 16-bit color depth, compared with Apple ProRAW’s 12-bits, for considerably more color information. It saves both JPG and DNG raw file formats. In addition to the after-shot editing possibilities shooting in raw adds, the Expert RAW app offers detailed photo settings like ISO, white balance, shutter speed, and exposure value (EV). For Expert RAW, Samsung and Adobe have announced that Lightroom will be the “exclusive default photo editor for RAW photos taken with the Expert RAW app." To take advantage of the new format, Galaxy owners will have to download the Expert RAW app from the Samsung Galaxy Store. Then, when they use that app to shoot pictures, they can use the app or the phone’s native Camera app to get raw files as well as JPGs.  The app is available for the Galaxy S22 Ultra, S22+, S22, and S21 Ultra, as well. The companies claim that Lightroom is the only photo editor that will work with raw files from the Galaxy S23 phones: "We’re excited to see Samsung enhance the Expert RAW app as a native camera option, with Lightroom as the default and only photo editor,” Scott Belsky, Adobe chief product officer and EVP, said in a statement. Previous phone versions’ Expert RAW apps produced DNG files that other photo software is capable of editing.  We tried opening and editing a raw DNG file in the Galaxy S23's Gallery app, and we could edit the photo but when saving the edits we only had a JPG left. Stay tuned for clarification on whether the exclusivity means that you can’t edit the DNGs produced by the new phones in any other software or simply that Lightroom has exclusive direct hooks into Expert RAW.  It’s also possible that Lightroom is the only app on the phone that can edit the files, though you could transfer them to a PC for editing on, say DxO PhotoLab. I'll update this article when I hear back from Adobe on these questions. You can download the Lightroom app from either Google Play store or the Galaxy Store for free, and the free version gives you plenty of editing, organizing, and sharing features. The free version does not, however, get you cloud syncing of photos, some advanced tools like effect filters, masking, healing brush, geometry corrections, and a few more advanced features. One of those advanced features? Editing raw photos. So you need a paid Adobe subscription to edit Expert RAW photos from your Galaxy S23.  On the Samsung Galaxy laptops, there’s no free version—you’ll need the $9.99-per-month Lightroom subscription, the same subscription cost you’d pay for the premium mobile features. Adobe is offering Galaxy S23 owners two months free, however. Adobe further announced that those who shoot photos in the Expert RAW format will be able to sync the images to Samsung Galaxy laptops for editing in Lightroom on those, too. However, this is not an exclusive feature: You can use a Lightroom account to sync photos between any phone and laptop where you’ve logged in to your subscription. For more on editing photos on your phone, read our picks for the best mobile photo editing apps, our tips for taking better smartphone photos, and for general photography advice, read 10 Beyond-Basic Digital Photography Tips. Eric Zeman contributed to this story. Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. Prior to my current role, I covered software and apps for ExtremeTech, and before that I headed up PCMag’s enterprise software team, but I’m happy to be back in the more accessible realm of consumer software. I’ve attended trade shows of Microsoft, Google, and Apple and written about all of them and their products. I’m an avid bird photographer and traveler—I’ve been to 40 countries, many with great birds! Because I’m also a classical fan and former performer, I’ve reviewed streaming services that emphasize classical music. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.