Generative AI enhancement turns innovative HR and payroll app into intuitive advisor for small businesses; Solution to be offered in Europe this fall. ROSELAND, N.J., Aug. 1, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- As entrepreneurs and small business owners look for opportunities to grow their businesses while balancing demands on their time, ADP's groundbreaking, AI-driven mobile app, Roll by ADP, now leverages generative AI to offer them even greater HR and payroll support with deeper insights. As part of a growing strategy, ADP is combining the power of generative AI technology, its unparalleled global workforce data, and unmatched industry expertise to help empower businesses to confidently grow.  Additionally, ADP will offer Roll by ADP outside the U.S. this Fall in Europe and will expand its availability from there. "With over 70 years of innovation at the heart of who we are, we've been working with AI and machine learning in our products for many years, leveraging the power of our data to help businesses succeed," said Maria Black, president and CEO of ADP. "As part of our broader generative AI strategy, we have the infrastructure to incorporate these new innovations in the right way for the right reasons and scale them across our business. As the power of AI grows, staying laser focused on the human experience becomes that much more important. It's about providing smart, easy and powerful technology to help our clients achieve their goals confidently."
		  "Roll was built with AI at its core, with the goal of giving small business owners greater agility in managing their people," explains Sreeni Kutam, president of global product and innovation at ADP. "Integrating new generative AI technology now takes Roll's capabilities to the next level. It's an intuitive small business advisor, pulling data from ADP's extensive global knowledge database, based on real interactions, as well as from the client's company-specific data. Through a closed large language model environment, Roll makes it even easier for business owners to quickly get tailored, valuable guidance in a safe and secure way." Newly Added Capabilities Include: Access to a Deep Knowledge Base: Intuitive Guidance: Secure and Smart Assistance:
  Swift Setup and Hassle-Free HR and Payroll Support: Roll™ by ADP® is available to US small business owners now and will be available in Europe this fall. Learn more at RollbyADP.com. About ADP (NASDAQ: ADP)Designing better ways to work through cutting-edge products, premium services and exceptional experiences that enable people to reach their full potential.  HR, Talent, Time Management, Benefits and Payroll.  Informed by data and designed for people.  Learn more at ADP.com Roll by ADP, ADP, the ADP logo, and Always Designing for People, are trademarks of ADP, Inc.  All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Copyright © 2023 ADP, Inc.  All rights reserved.
        View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ai-powered-mobile-app-roll-by-adp-just-got-even-smarter-301889833.html
  SOURCE  ADP, Inc. Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks