Each week, TruckNews.com lists notable moves, promotions and awards in the trucking industry. This week, High Bar Brands promoted Derek Quys to senior vice-president of sales and business development and welcomed Mike… Education about apprenticeships and buy-in from carriers, stakeholders and drivers will be key in getting the ball rolling to making truck driving a Red Seal occupation. Attendees at Professional Truck… I got my first commercial truck licence in 1988. Millions of miles and smiles later, I want to address a question that has been around for pretty much my entire… Despite the legalization of marijuana in Canada and several U.S. states, the rate of positive drug tests among Canadian cross-border truck drivers has remained consistent. This is according to Jonathan… Each week, TruckNews.com lists notable moves, promotions and awards in the trucking industry. This week, Ryder’s Darryl Toll won the CVSA’s 2024 International Driver Excellence award, and KBGCNA together with Bendix Foundation… About 100 prospective truck drivers attended an introduction to trucking boot camp in Toronto organized by the Toronto Business Development Centre.  The event featured speakers who shared their experiences,… Quebec-based Andy Transport announced two new appointments in its executive suite — Luca Iannuzzi joined the company as a vice-president of operations and George Chouliotis as vice-president of sales. The federal government is taking further steps to prevent misuse of and fraud within the Temporary Foreign Worker (TFW) program. Applying a stricter and more rigorous… Ryder System has crowned Warren Smith of Ontario as the 2024 Ryder Top Technician, awarding him a $50,000 cash prize. Now in its 23rd year, the annual competition recognizes the… The Manitoba government says it will strengthen driver safety, training and retention in the trucking industry by taking immediate steps to implement recommendations of an independent… Each week, TruckNews.com lists notable moves, promotions and awards in the trucking industry. This week, Trucking HR Canada named Jason Libralesso as a chairman of its board and announced the addition of… Chevron announced Aug. 2 it will move its headquarters from its longtime home of San Ramon, Calif., to Houston, Texas. The move came amid a shakeup of the company’s senior… Labor Market Impact Assessments (LMIAs) are being abused by some people within the trucking industry. Trucking association executives – national and provincial – told me that this important part of… Trailcon Leasing appointed Robert Hansen as the company’s new chief of operations. (Photo: Trailcon Leasing) The company says his new role at Trailcon will involve optimizing operational processes, driving… Kevin Bangston has been appointed president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Daimler Truck Financial Services North America — effective Sept. 1, 2024 — succeeding Richard Howard who will retire… Stay up to date on technology, regulations and trucking life Page   We have changed the way we showcase trucks and trailers available for sale – and now send the details right to your email inbox.   Simply click here to subscribe to our bi-weekly HD Hotlist for the listings.      We use cookies to make your website experience better. By accepting this notice and continuing to browse our website you confirm you accept our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy. read more >>