The U.S. Drone Soccer National Championship will take place Sunday, April 16, at the Wildcat Field House at SUNY Poly’s Utica campus.  Sixteen teams of middle and high school students, ages 12 to 18, from four regional championships in Alabama, California, Colorado, and New York, will compete for National Honors and an automatic invitation to the International Championship and Exhibition in Denver, Colorado, May 8-11.  "We are thrilled that SUNY Poly students have the chance to do so much: they can host events, collaborate with prospective college students, and work toward creating the first U.S. Drone Soccer collegiate team in New York,” said John Reade, CNY Drones safety officer and director of Information systems at Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, in a statement.  "This is an incredible opportunity for them," he said. "U.S. Drone Soccer helps us prepare students for STEM careers and levels-up our work of maintaining student, educator, and school interest in relevant technology." U.S. Drone Soccer is an indoor "build, program and fly" sport that allows students to learn the technical aspects of unmanned aviation systems while holding interest through a fast-paced team participation.   It is played with flying quadcopters in protective exoskeletons designed for collisions.   Five-player teams fly inside a netted arena, where they ram and block an opposing team to prevent them from scoring.     Students who compete in drone soccer must first learn to build, program and repair the drones as a team.     Following a year of testing with students and teachers, a new drone was developed that could withstand the intensity of Drone Soccer and meet the needs of the modern engineering classroom. The resulting Drone Soccer Ball is affordable, durable, and easily repairable with simple tools.    Open-source software allows students to rebuild and reprogram the drone for depth of learning. Professional development training followed by access to a regional support network, helps educators and mentors find success with no prior experience.   The 2023 Region II New York Championship at SUNY Poly on March 26 ended with a team from Madrid-Waddington Central School District taking home first place honors, organizers said.   Second place finalists from Rome Free Academy and third place, Cicero-North Syracuse, are set for a rematch at the National event.  All Region II Championship teams have claimed a spot at the April 16 competition. Most are set for a rematch.    The first U.S. Drone Soccer International Competition and Exhibition in Colorado is part of AUVSI XPONENTIAL, an annual conference for drone technology officials, companies, and educators, organizers said.  At least one U.S. Drone Soccer team from New York plans to attend the international event. CNY Drones is seeking sponsors to make it possible for support staff to escort a New York contingent and represent the state on the world stage. 