Wells Fargo analyst Zachary Fadem maintained a Buy rating on Tractor Supply (TSCO – Research Report) today and set a price target of $255.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $218.99. Fadem covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, and Tractor Supply. According to TipRanks, Fadem has an average return of 17.2% and a 66.59% success rate on recommended stocks.  In addition to Wells Fargo, Tractor Supply also received a Buy from Exane BNP Paribas’s Chris Bottiglieri in a report issued on January 12. However, on January 6, UBS maintained a Hold rating on Tractor Supply (NASDAQ: TSCO). See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> TSCO market cap is currently $24.19B and has a P/E ratio of 23.79.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 64 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of TSCO in relation to earlier this year. Most recently, in November 2022, Kersey Melissa, the EVP Chief HR Officer of TSCO sold 4,921.00 shares for a total of $1,088,475.99. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Tractor Supply Co. engages in the retail sale of farm and ranch products. It operates retail farm & ranch stores and focuses on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. The firm operates the retail stores under the names: Tractor Supply Company, Del’s Feed & Farm Supply, and Petsense. Its product categories includes equine, livestock, pet, and small animal; hardware, truck, towing, and tool; heating, lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts, and toys; recreational clothing and footwear; and maintenance products for agricultural and rural use. The company was founded by Charles E. Schmidt, Sr. in 1938 and is headquartered in Brentwood, TN.  Read More on TSCO: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks