We use cookies and other technologies to better understand a visitor's experience and to help improve our websites. By continuing to use the website, you consent to Middlebury's use of cookies and other technologies as outlined in our Privacy Policy. Information Technology Services (ITS) provides support to the entire Middlebury Institute community. The Middlebury Institute is a part of the Middlebury College Network. You can find the Monterey Helpdesk on the third floor of Casa Fuente, Room 320. Take the stairwell to the right of Human Resources. We’re at the corner of the hallway. Check http://go.middlebury.edu/helpdesk for up-to-date information on hours, availability and ways to reach us for remote support. The ITS Help Desk is the first point of contact for reporting all technology issues. You can call, email, visit in-person, or directly submit your request via TeamDynamix (TDX), our ticket management system. Students are advised to bring their student identification cards with them to verify identity if needed. Monday through Friday, 9AM – 5PM Pacific timeCasa Fuente 320(831) 647-6656 helpdesk@middlebury.edu Helpdesk Zoom Room Complete Helpdesk Hours   To set up your Middlebury account, or reset your password, please review the steps at http://go.middlebury.edu/account All incoming Students, Faculty and Staff will receive an Activation email from the Helpdesk with instructions for setting up their account. We can assist students with accessing their Middlebury email accounts, which are valid for one year after graduation. Your Middlebury email and password are the same credentials you use to access all other Institute resources, including the wireless network, Institute computers, Canvas, library databases, etc. To login to your email visit go.middlebury.edu/mail. You must login with your full middlebury.edu email address. Office 365 for personal devices is available for all current Students, Faculty and Staff. All software listed in the Middlebury Service Catalog is available to the MIIS Community. New students can review the College’s latest technology handout to get them started. PC computers are available for student projects in the library and the Pacific Lab on the first floor of Casa Fuente. Virtual desktops are also available. Each semester students receive $60 of printing credit (approx. 1200 pages). Please visit the Middlebury Student Printing page for more information. You may check your printing balance at the MIIS Papercut website. For adding funds to your balance, please submit a ticket for a Quota Increase Request under Printing and Copying. Canvas is the Institute’s learning management system, and is used widely by faculty and students. Faculty who choose to use the platform can provision Canvas sites via Course Hub. Please note that Canvas sites are not created automatically. For class registration, and updating your personal student data, visit go.middlebury.edu/bannerweb Oracle systems are administered through Green Mountain Higher Education Consortium (GMHEC) Please visit their website at www.gmhec.org Knowledge bases for specific functions are listed below. The Institute has taken steps to integrate Middlebury’s information technology services to provide students, faculty, and staff with an optimal infrastructure for teaching, learning, communication, and information management. Please take an opportunity to read our policies. Help us help the world