Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. Get Ready for a Fall Market Pullback, Baird Strategist Warns Advisors Financial Planning > Behavioral Finance 

By Jane Wollman Rusoff
 


Q&A



August 16, 2023 at 02:23 PM



Share & Print
 “There’s a lack of boogeymen [threatening] the market. There isn’t an obvious thing out there,” argues Ross Mayfield, investment strategy analyst at Baird, in an interview with ThinkAdvisor. Nonetheless, the chartered financial analyst unequivocally expects a “correction … or pullback” this fall. “We’ve told folks to prepare for volatility and some pullback” but that “it’s not a reason to get …spooked or scared [and] jump out of a financial plan … and affect how they’re thinking about things long term,” he says. A resource for Baird’s nearly 1,500 financial advisors nationwide, Mayfield, 31, creates video content and presents his research papers and chartbooks both in print and in webinars to support the firm’s financial advisors as they serve clients. Further, Mayfield speaks directly with clients to answer their burning investing and portfolio questions triggered by major developments in the news. Perhaps the most important part of his job is to temper their mindset of the fear of missing out — or FOMO, as it is known — on so-called hot investments and themes, from which they’d hope to benefit. “We write and talk a lot about the themes of the day but always bring it back to the plan clients have created with their financial advisors — the long-term thinking needed to be successful,” Mayfield says in the interview. In striving to be an “optimistic presence” for clients and advisors, he stresses that his way of “combating the negativity that might scare somebody out of the market [is] by focusing on long-term rational optimism.” He is indeed at the ready to explain major breaking news and investing implications, such as when the war in Ukraine erupted in February 2022. Geopolitics is always a big concern for Baird clients, he says; and Mayfield often answers questions in phone conference meetings with them and their advisors. For example, issues like the debt ceiling and the regional banking crisis earlier this year brought questions from clients who wanted to know whether they needed to make changes in their portfolios. With no “boogeymen” menacing the market right now, as Mayfield says, clients are mulling over artificial intelligence, a potential government shutdown later this year and the 2024 presidential election. The firm’s clients range across the demographic spectrum but are mostly older high-net-worth individuals, according to Mayfield. The analyst has been with Baird since 2019, when Hilliard Lyons, the firm for which he previously worked in the same capacity, was acquired by Baird. Right out of college, Mayfield joined Fidelity as a call-center rep. “I wasn’t exactly sure what I wanted to do in the investment space. So I got my CFA,” he recalls. He clearly wasn’t financial-advisor minded. The Fidelity job was “just to get a foot in the door of a firm with a good reputation,” he says. ThinkAdvisor interviewed Mayfield, who was speaking by phone from his base in Louisville, Kentucky. “Politics is the No. 1 topic” clients ask about. “But usually, and pretty stringently, we tell people not to let their politics get involved with their investing. “That will be a big message we’ll be hitting next year as well,” he adds. Here are highlights of our interview: THINKADVISOR: What’s critical for financial advisors to know as we head into fall 2023? ROSS MAYFIELD: After such a strong market rally as we’ve had, it’s important to know that a correction — or pause or pullback — is probably to be expected. But it’s not a reason to get spooked or scared and jump out of a financial plan. Trying to time the market is a fraught practice. What are you telling Baird advisors and their clients in connection with your expectation? We’ve been trying to prepare folks — especially talking to them in the middle of the year when the market was up 20-plus percent — that we’re going to see a pullback. The fall is historically a challenging time for the market anyway. So we’ve told folks to prepare for volatility and for some pullback but not to let it affect how they’re thinking about things long term. Why is market timing a “fraught practice”? Another way of saying it is [that market timing] is “basically impossible” because you have to get it right twice: sell at the right time and also know when to buy back. It’s hard for most people who get the first part right to shift their mindset enough to get the second part right. So we advise staying invested and being mentally and behaviorally prepared for volatility along the way, as opposed to being more short-term tactical because [market timing] is just so hard to get right. Is there a particular type of question that clients ask you frequently? A handful of big topics always cycle in and out of the news that they ask about. It could be concern about, say, COVID-19, the upcoming presidential election or the national debt. A lot of our biggest clients’ questions stem from a [major] concerning issue that’s in the news. Earlier this year, it was the debt ceiling issue looming large over pretty much everything. Our clients [wanted to know]: “How is this going to affect my long-term plan? Do I need to make changes based on that?” So that and the regional banking crisis were the two big topics. What development or theme are clients zeroing in on or worried about right now? The market is up and has had a really great year. There’s no obvious headwind, so there’s definitely less concern right now. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles There’s a lack of boogeymen [threatening] the market: There isn’t an obvious thing out there. So people are thinking about AI and the potential for the government to shut down later this year. They’ve even started to think about the 2024 presidential election, as I said. Do your clients ever ask you about the nitty-gritty of their portfolio investments? Yes, like, “XYZ is coming: Should I make a change in my portfolio? Should I sell my investments and do something more conservative?” It’s more implicit than explicit. What else do they want to know? On the flip side, we get questions around, “How do I invest in [a particular theme]?” At any given time, there’s a hot theme or two, and they ask, “How do I get exposure to that theme, and how do I make sure I’m set up to benefit”? In what way do you help clients who have the fear of missing out to not focus too heavily on such developments? That’s definitely the No. 1 [aspect] of my job. We write and talk a lot about the theme of the day but always bring it back home to the plan clients have created with their financial advisor. We try to remind people that there’s always something to be worried about — but if you let that affect your investments, you would have missed the tremendous gains in the market over the last 20 to 50 years. So we talk about things happening in the market right now but always bring it back to the kind of long-term thinking needed to be successful. It’s just repeating that message. I’m trying to remain an optimistic presence for clients and advisors. Does that mean you never express any negativity or pessimism? It’s not about never being negative. You want to acknowledge the concerns of the day but always with the focus on what we know from history, which is that over long periods of time, the market has outperformed — and investors who have stayed in the market have benefited greatly. Our clients are smart enough to see if someone is trying to be disingenuous or overly optimistic at a time when things aren’t perfect. It’s about combating the negativity that might scare somebody out of the market by focusing on longer-term rational optimism. Do you talk with advisors and clients about the war in Ukraine? Yes, geopolitics are always a big concern. You can track what our clients’ concerns are with what’s well covered in the news — whether it’s [America’s] relationship with China or Ukraine or some other big geopolitical concern. Last spring, for example, it was the war in Ukraine and what it might mean to energy prices and the tail risk of NATO getting involved or a nuclear event. But now [Ukraine] has been [comparatively] taken out of the news. It’s certainly on people’s minds, but the market hasn’t really responded negatively. I would lump Ukraine in with China in the broad bucket of geopolitical concerns. Folks are thinking about [America’s] place in the world and how our companies and the nation are impacted. When big news breaks, do you spring into action and write about it right away, communicating with advisors and clients? Or do you just stick to a certain set calendar schedule of presentations? It’s the first one [that you said]! We want to address the things that are on people’s minds and that potentially have ramifications for the market. When Ukraine happened in February 2022, we were immediately [communicating] how it would impact markets, and we produced content for advisors to put in front of clients. We’re flexible because the market is open every day, and when [crucial] things come down the pike, you have to be ready to respond to them. Are you discussing with financial advisors and clients the legal issues former President Donald Trump is dealing with — his indictments — while simultaneously running for president again? Absolutely. Politics is the No. 1 [topic]. The 2022 midterm elections took up a lot of attention too. Our message has always been the same, which is that the combination of parties in office has not really impacted markets much. There are always specific pieces of policy that we’re keeping our eyes on to the extent that they impact corporate profits. But usually, and pretty stringently, we tell people not to let their politics get involved with their investing. And that will be a big message we’ll be hitting next year as well. What sort of impact do you think the appointment of a special counsel in the Hunter Biden investigation will have on investors’ decision to vote or not vote for President Joe Biden? The interest and concern will start to grow as we get closer [to the election]. But, as I said, we have a pretty firm message on how to try to think about politics and investing. Pictured: Ross Mayfield NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next