Leonardo is presenting the Multisort Baggage Handling System (MBHS) at Passenger Terminal Expo 2023. The equipment is designed to improve the passenger experience. The MBHS is based on crossbelt sortation technology and enables a throughput of up to 8,400 bags per hour with no jams while reducing operational and maintenance costs, all in a small footprint. Exhibition visitors are getting a first-hand look at one of Leonardo’s newest automation offerings, the MBHS-Heavy Duty (MBHS-HD). It features advanced controls tailored to customers’ needs and can cope with gradients up to 15°, enabling a 20% footprint reduction and allowing connections between airport facilities on different floors. Margherita Mottini, marketing manager at Leonardo, said, “Proven, reliable, trusted – that’s Leonardo. Our state-of-the-art baggage handling system (BHS) has been installed in many airports in Europe. We have been participating in the expo since 2014. It’s a good occasion for us to showcase the technology that we display and broaden our network of customers and prospects.”  To find out more about Leonardo’s products, visit Booth 2350.  
Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.				 Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
 Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
 Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
 Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
 Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
