Expansions and enhancements continue at the Sarasota Bradenton International Airport this summer as the newest addition to the fast-growing airport, a new cell phone lot, was announced by the Sarasota Manatee Airport Authority (SMAA) on Friday. The new Cell Phone Lot is directly across from the former temporary location at t 1180 Rental Car Rd. and offers easy access from Old Bradenton Rd or the main airport entry on University Parkway. Sarasota Bradenton International Airport President and CEO, Rick Piccolo said in a news release that the new lot will help curb wait times for drivers and airport customers. “The new cell phone lot will offer the amenities necessary to ease the process of waiting for arrivingpassengers at SRQ. We encourage all airport patrons to use this new lot or park in our short-termparking lot, when picking up passengers at the airport.” The new SRQ airport cell phone lot has 124 paved parking spaces, including five handicapped-accessible spots. The lot also was designed with restrooms, vending machines, LED lighting and secured with fencing. Lot users and airport visitors will also see two news large 8’ x1 6’ screen displays in the coming months in the lot. The screens are scheduled to be installed within the next six months and will provide updated information on flight arrival times. Cell phone lot users can currently find Sarasota Bradenton International Airport flight information on the airport website or by downloading the AeroCloud app. The airport continues to expand not only its footprint and amenities but its options for destinations and routes almost monthly. On Aug. 10, Avelo airlines announced its latest nonstop flight from Sarasota to Wilmington Airport in Delaware which will begin its routes on Nov. 2. The flight will be Sarasota Bradenton airport's 54th nonstop flight marking the travel hub's massive growth in the number of direct flights in recent years due to record visits to the area during the COVID-19 pandemic. The airport continues to post increases in passenger count. In June, the airport reported 309,127 passengers with the total 12-month passenger activity at the end of the month totaling 4.1 million passengers, a 9% increase compared to the previous 12 months through June 2022. Through the first half of the year, airport officials have reported a 14% increase in passenger traffic. SRQ airport breaks records: Sarasota Bradenton International Airport reports record-breaking year Related news: New nonstop flight announced at Sarasota Bradenton International Airport This article originally appeared on Sarasota Herald-Tribune: Sarasota Bradenton Airport adds new cell phone parking lot New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.