Airport management platform AeroCloud has introduced a raft of passenger processing solutions, including common use passenger processing system (CUPPS), common use self-service (CUSS) and departure control system (DCS). AeroCloud’s passenger processing solutions include four key modules: Common Use eDesktop, Departure Control System (eDCS), Security Scanning Solutions (eScan) and Common Use Self-Service Solutions (CUSS). The Common Use eDesktop is a fully managed, cloud-hosted, secure desktop that enables airports to share desks and equipment, which can be quickly and easily switched between airline systems. The Departure Control System (eDCS) has been designed to be the most flexible DCS on the market, providing airport staff and handlers with the tools needed to process departing and arriving passengers, crew and baggage. The eScan provides simple and flexible passenger verification against a central database for multiple touchpoints including security, fast-track and lounges. The CUSS enables self-service kiosks, bag-tag printing kiosks, passenger mobile apps and automated gates to deliver a frictionless passenger experience, ensuring travelers can move efficiently and autonomously through the airport. Airports, fixed-based operators (FBOs), ground handlers and airlines can all access and share the solutions to maximize the utilization of hardware and space in terminals, while also using them to ensure that passengers have a smooth boarding experience. Lincoln Airport in Nebraska and Teesside International in the UK are some of the airports that are already harnessing AeroCloud’s passenger processing solutions to realize the benefits of common-use tools. George Richardson, CEO of AeroCloud, said, “One of the products airports rapidly need as air travel resumes are common-use systems to optimize their fixed infrastructure. That’s why we’re so thrilled to introduce our passenger processing solutions, supported by our team of experts who have decades’ worth of combined experience in common use. They take a customer-centric approach to help airports identify solutions that will solve their specific needs and deploy them fast so they can manage their environments more effectively, all the while powering better decision-making and passenger experiences.” For more key technology updates from the passenger terminal industry, click here 
Type above and press Enter to search. Press Esc to cancel.				 Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
 Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
 Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
 Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
 Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
