Expansions and enhancements continue at the Sarasota Bradenton International Airport this summer as the newest addition to the fast-growing airport, a new cell phone lot, was announced by the Sarasota Manatee Airport Authority (SMAA) on Friday. The new Cell Phone Lot is directly across from the former temporary location at t 1180 Rental Car Rd. and offers easy access from Old Bradenton Rd or the main airport entry on University Parkway. Sarasota Bradenton International Airport President and CEO, Rick Piccolo said in a news release that the new lot will help curb wait times for drivers and airport customers. “The new cell phone lot will offer the amenities necessary to ease the process of waiting for arrivingpassengers at SRQ. We encourage all airport patrons to use this new lot or park in our short-termparking lot, when picking up passengers at the airport.” The new SRQ airport cell phone lot has 124 paved parking spaces, including five handicapped-accessible spots. The lot also was designed with restrooms, vending machines, LED lighting and secured with fencing. Lot users and airport visitors will also see two news large 8’ x1 6’ screen displays in the coming months in the lot. The screens are scheduled to be installed within the next six months and will provide updated information on flight arrival times. Cell phone lot users can currently find Sarasota Bradenton International Airport flight information on the airport website or by downloading the AeroCloud app. The airport continues to expand not only its footprint and amenities but its options for destinations and routes almost monthly. On Aug. 10, Avelo airlines announced its latest nonstop flight from Sarasota to Wilmington Airport in Delaware which will begin its routes on Nov. 2. The flight will be Sarasota Bradenton airport's 54th nonstop flight marking the travel hub's massive growth in the number of direct flights in recent years due to record visits to the area during the COVID-19 pandemic. The airport continues to post increases in passenger count. In June, the airport reported 309,127 passengers with the total 12-month passenger activity at the end of the month totaling 4.1 million passengers, a 9% increase compared to the previous 12 months through June 2022. Through the first half of the year, airport officials have reported a 14% increase in passenger traffic. SRQ airport breaks records: Sarasota Bradenton International Airport reports record-breaking year Related news: New nonstop flight announced at Sarasota Bradenton International Airport This article originally appeared on Sarasota Herald-Tribune: Sarasota Bradenton Airport adds new cell phone parking lot Our editors will email you a roundup of their favourite stories from across AOL Advertisement Advertisement Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Press Association Advertisement