Trojan's maintenance-free AES Battery maximizes longevity and reduces the total cost of ownership compared to standard AGM technology. It also works in a partial state of charge without damage. SANTA FE SPRINGS, Calif. (PRWEB) January 30, 2023   Trojan Battery Company introduces the new Trojan AES Battery for floor-cleaning machines, aerial work platforms, material handling equipment, golf vehicles and other applications at Booth 1481 of the 2023 ARA Rental Show.  The rugged premium VRLA battery delivers consistent, unrivaled high output and up to twice the cycle life of standard AGM, especially in extreme deep-cycle, partial charging, or challenging environments.  "Trojan's AES Battery lets rental houses, floor-cleaning professionals, and facilities maintenance and warehouse managers maximize productivity and slash their total cost of ownership," says Matt Herr, senior product manager for Motive. "And it enables OEMs and Master Distributors to improve and differentiate their products, boost profits, and enjoy supply-chain security thanks to our global manufacturing sites."    The Trojan AES battery outperforms competitive products in these areas:
   Harsh Conditions: Robust performance in extreme conditions and harsh temperatures.   Harmless Partial State of Charging: Tested to withstand long- term partial state of charging, without harm.  Advanced Carbon Technology Extends Life and Streamlines Operations Some traditional AGM batteries must be fully recharged after each cycle to prevent corrosion, sulfation, and early failure. Yet this is often neglected on busy work sites.   Trojan's AES Battery is engineered with a proprietary carbon additive and DCS technology to work in a partial state of charge while preserving both the negative active material and the positive material.  See Our Full Product Portfolio at Booth 1481 The complete battery solutions provider, Trojan will showcase its deep-cycle flooded lead-acid, AGM, gel, lithium-ion, and AES batteries. Our lithium-ion series includes 24-, 36- and 48-volt batteries. What Sets Trojan Battery Company Apart With almost a century of battery-making experience, Trojan Battery Company helped shape deep-cycle battery technology and is a major supplier to OEMs. We offer:    A global Technical Support Line with trained employees   A network of Master Distributors and Authorized Trojan Dealers   Stop by booth 1481 to speak to our energy-storage experts and enter our Play-to-Win an iPad contest.  Learn more about Trojan's AES Battery or Find your local Authorized Trojan Dealer. About Trojan Battery Company Leading manufacturers of golf, personal transportation, and utility vehicles as well as marine equipment, floor-cleaning machines, aerial work platforms, and material-handling equipment depend on us to power their products. Since 1925, Trojan Battery Company has revolutionized deep-cycle battery technology by introducing generations of deep-cycle flooded, lithium-ion, gel, AGM, and AES batteries. Based in Santa Fe Springs, California, we operate manufacturing facilities in Sandersville and Lithonia, Georgia; Santa Fe Springs, California; Reynosa, Mexico; and Shanghai, China; two advanced Research and Development Centers in the United States; offices in Europe and Asia;  and a worldwide network of Trojan Master Distributors. Visit Trojan Battery Company, a part of C&D Technologies.  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/trojan_battery_company_launches_new_aes_battery_with_up_to_2x_the_cycle_life_of_standard_agm_at_the_2023_ara_rental_show/prweb19140444.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.