  We’re six weeks away from actual football, but the unofficial start to the season arrives in the form of football media days beginning this week. The Big 12 media days launch Wednesday, followed by the SEC next week, then the ACC, Pac-12 and Big Ten. Aflac has built on its growing presence in college sports by acquiring the title sponsorship of the annual Kickoff Game in Atlanta. The three-year deal between Peach Bowl Inc. and Aflac kicks in this season and includes four games, including two to open the 2025 season.

The insurance brand replaces Chick-fil-A, which had been the game’s title sponsor since it launched as the original neutral-site kickoff game in 2008. The new deal represents a shift from one Georgia-based company to another. Aflac learned about the opening for a new title sponsor from Gary Stokan, CEO and president of Peach Bowl Inc. Stokan was in New York with a contingent of college football luminaries last year when he first met Aflac U.S. President Virgil Miller. Chick-fil-A already had notified the Peach Bowl that they were coming off the Kickoff Game, but that they planned to stay on the postseason bowl game.

During that meeting in N.Y., Stokan pitched the Kickoff’s title sponsorship to Miller. Chick-fil-A has been so dominant in college football that opportunities like this in Atlanta rarely come along. “I told Virgil that Aflac was the perfect partner for this game,” Stokan said. Aflac has been an avid supporter of the cancer and blood disorder center in Atlanta, and a Peach Bowl Legacy Fund was created with a $20 million donation from the Peach Bowl.

Stokan: “It’s one of the greatest stories in my sports marketing career. This partnership can go a long way toward finding cures for childhood cancer.”

The new deal between the Peach Bowl and Aflac expands on the supplemental insurance company’s presence in college sports. Aflac already has endorsement deals with Alabama football coach Nick Saban, Colorado football coach Deion Sanders, South Carolina women’s basketball coach Dawn Staley and retired Duke men’s basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski as part of its “GOATS” program. 

Now, the Aflac GOATS are going to replace the Chick-fil-A cows. Future iterations of the Aflac Kickoff include: Aflac President Virgil Miller (l) and the Peach Bowl’s Gary Stokan were the principals on the deal The United Athletic Conference, an aggregation of football-playing schools from the WAC and the Atlantic Sun that opens play this fall, has brought on a new marketing and media firm to monetize its commercial rights. Highland Growth Strategies, a firm founded by longtime multimedia rights exec David Johnston, has agreed to work with the conference on its revenue efforts.

Highland will focus on two primary areas of revenue -- developing a media rights plan and a corporate sponsorship plan. 

The UAC’s main assets will include a leaguewide presenting partnership that will be unique among D-I conferences. The “United Athletic Conference presented by Brand X” will provide maximum value for the nine schools that begin play this season.

Oliver Luck is the conference’s executive director. He worked with Johnston previously when he was West Virginia AD and he hired Johnston’s former firm, Rockbridge Sports Group, to consult on a multimedia rights deal for the Mountaineers.

The UAC also has brought on Ward Wyatt to server as the conference’s chief commercial officer. Wyatt formerly ran the LSU sports property for Playfly when Johnston previously ran that side of Playfly’s business.       Florida-based sports attorney Peter Schoenthal is one of my favorite pontificators on NIL. I asked him recently about the NCAA’s push for greater transparency and uniform NIL contracts for the athletes, a couple of areas we’ve heard new NCAA President Charlie Baker address recently.

“The big thing we’ve heard about from Charlie Baker is uniform contracts and a clearinghouse,” Schoenthal said. “We’ve also heard from others about a salary cap. What they’re essentially arguing for, if you think about it, is employment without realizing that they’re arguing for employment.

“I actually agree with Charlie when he talks about uniform contracts and a clearinghouse for deals. If you think about what collective deals are, they’re salaries clothed in marketing deals. … I do think there’s a need for transparency and, say what you want about the NCAA, we need uniform rules. I just think the NCAA is a little confused at times about what they’re asking for.” Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: