Mar. 7—ATLANTA — In recognition of the 290th anniversary of the founding of the Georgia colony, Gov. Brian Kemp and W. Todd Groce, president and CEO of the Georgia Historical Society, officially appointed Dan Amos and Donna Hyland as the 2023 Georgia Trustees in a signing ceremony at the Georgia State Capitol. "It is my privilege to join Dr. Groce in appointing this year's additions to the Georgia Trustees, Dan Amos and Donna Hyland," Kemp said. "They embody the commitment to service that the Trustees represent and promote so diligently. As the Georgia Historical Society continues to preserve the history of the Peach State, I am proud to join them in recognizing these two great community leaders for their accomplishments." "It is my honor to be here with Gov. Kemp as we appoint the 2023 Georgia Trustees, Dan Amos and Donna Hyland," Groce said. "Their lives and commitment to service reflect the motto of the original Trustees, the founders of Georgia, whose guiding principle was 'Not for Self, But for Others.' We look forward to celebrating Dan and Donna and the ideal they represent at their induction ceremony." Amos and Hyland will be inducted as Georgia Trustees on April 22 at the Trustees Gala in Savannah. In conjunction with the Governor's Office, the Georgia Historical Society re-established the Georgia Trustees in 2008 as a way of recognizing Georgians whose accomplishments and community service reflect the highest ideals of the founding body of Trustees. The original Georgia Trustees, a governing body chartered and appointed by His Majesty King George II of England in 1732 to establish a new colony in North America, founded Georgia upon the principle of Non Sibi, Sed Aliis, "Not for Self, But for Others." The governor annually appoints new Trustees whose history-making accomplishments and service reflect the original Trustees' ideals. Amos became chief executive officer of Aflac Incorporated in 1990 and is the second-longest-serving CEO in the Fortune 200 behind Warren Buffett. In January 2000, Amos launched the popular Aflac duck advertising campaign, transforming Aflac from a successful supplemental insurance company to a top international brand recognized by Fortune magazine as one of the World's Most Admired Companies for 22 years. Amos' commitment to ethical business practices has led the Ethisphere Institute to recognize Aflac as a World's Most Ethical Company for 17 consecutive years, making Aflac the only insurance company in the world to appear on this list every year since the inception of the award in 2007. Amos also has appeared five times on Institutional Investor magazine's lists of America's Best CEOs for the insurance category, and he has been recognized as one of the 100 Best-Performing CEOs in the world by the Harvard Business Review five times. His leadership style has led to annual revenue growth from $2.7 billion in 1990 to $19.5 billion in 2022. In 1995, Amos and his wife, Kathelen, were inspired to spearhead Aflac's decadeslong commitment to helping families of children diagnosed with cancer. The company and its independent sales associates have contributed more than $165 million to this cause, including funding for the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, which has been named a leading childhood cancer facility in the United States by U.S. News and World Report. In Japan, through the Aflac Parents House, Aflac also has helped more than 140,000 children and their families who are facing cancer and other diseases. For 32 years, Hyland has helped shape the delivery of health care to children in Georgia and beyond. First as chief financial officer, then chief operating officer and now as president and chief executive officer, Hyland has overseen growth and achievement at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. She was instrumental during the merger of Egleston Children's Health Care System and Scottish Rite Children's Medical Center, as well as the addition of Hughes Spalding and Marcus Autism Center, which led to the formation of what is now one of the largest pediatric health care systems in the country. Today, Children's is consistently ranked as a top pediatric hospital by U.S. News & World Report and one of Fortune magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For." Hyland's dedication to pediatric health care has resulted in recognition as one of Atlanta's and Georgia's most influential leaders. Her dedication to the community extends outside of Children's, where she serves on the boards of Atlanta Committee for Progress Inc., Cousins Properties Inc., Genuine Parts Company, the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce Executive Committee, Truist Atlanta Advisory Board, Stone Mountain Industrial Park Inc., and the Ryan Seacrest Foundation. Previous inductees are Dan Cathy, Shirley Franklin, David Abney, Juanita Baranco, Robert L. Brown Jr., Robert S. Jepson Jr., Frank Blake, John Schuerholz, Edward H. Bastian, W. Paul Bowers, F. Duane Ackerman, A.D. "Pete" Correll, James H. Blanchard, Muhtar Kent, Alana Smith Shepherd, Paula S. Wallace, Arthur M. Blank, William Porter "Billy" Payne, Truett Cathy, Herman Russell, Tom Cousins, Andrew Young, Vincent J. Dooley, Sam Nunn, Henry Aaron, Robert Edward "Ted" Turner, Bernard Marcus, and Marguerite Neel Williams. For more information about the 2023 Georgia Trustees, contact Keith Strigaro, director of communications, at kstrigaro@georgiahistory.com or by phone at (912) 651.2125, extension 153. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.