DOVER ‒ The Dover Public Library has been the victim of scam artists who fraudulently obtained around $20,000 from the library's checking account over the past couple of weeks. According to Director Jim Gill, the library's fiscal officer was doing a regular accounting of transactions and noticed five checks that were cashed in Florida. They were out of sequence. None of them were of a big enough amount to draw suspicion, Gill noted. Dover police, the library's bank and the provider of its cybersecurity insurance are investigating. The people involved in these scams target small municipalities and public entities, he said. They recreated the library's checks. "They look more like real checks than our checks do." More library news: New book chronicles 100-year history of Dover Public Library He hopes the library's insurance will cover the loss. "They're looking into it before they tell us yes or no," he said. "There are deductible issues and things like that. I sure hope so. The issue of $20,000 is big to us, but in the grand scheme of things, with cybersecurity or cyber threats and things like that nature, cybercrimes and fraud, it's small potatoes compared to some of the other things they see." He added, "The bank has very clearly told us it was nobody's fault, nobody at the library's fault. They target people like us, organizations like us. We are working with the bank for an extra layer of controls that a lot of municipalities are doing with writing checks." This article originally appeared on The Times-Reporter: Scam artists hit Dover library; cash $20K worth of fraudulent checks New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.