Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA) shares are trading higher on a Bloomberg report that the pharmacy retailer is considering former Cigna executive Tim Wentworth for CEO. Walgreens announced the surprising departure of CEO Rosalind Brewer earlier this month. Analysts at Raymond James upgraded Trimble (TRMBL) shares to "outperform" after the company announced it was selling $2 billion worth of tech assets to AGCO (AGCO). AGCO CEO Eric Hanostia told Yahoo Finance Live that the deal will help build its "mixed-fleet" opportunity. Carnival (CCL) shares traded lower after reporting third quarter results that topped analyst estimates, but fourth quarter guidance disappointed. For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Yahoo Finance Live. JULIE HYMAN: And we start with Walgreens Boots Alliance. The shares higher today following a Bloomberg report that the company is considering a former Cigna Group executive, Tim Wentworth, to be the next CEO. Walgreens has been searching for a new chief after it announced the abrupt departure of Rosalind Brewer from the position earlier this month. And Ros Brewer had really tried to beef up Walgreens, sort of broader health care bona fides to compete against CVS. CVS has been sort of the clear leader in that area. Wentworth, obviously, coming from an insurer, and he had been at Express Scripts as well-- might be the one to help Walgreens further in that direction. - Yeah, and then Rosalind, so when she departed, of course, that was an abrupt departure. It took a lot of people by surprise. She did try to move them into, as you said, kind of a bigger player in the health care space, acquire the urgent care providers, but that stock, Julie, of course, has been a mess. I mean, it's down about 40% so far this year. But maybe investors taking some page of optimism here. Maybe they get a tested veteran in there into the C-suite, changes some things. JULIE HYMAN: Yeah, that seems to be what it is, a little relief there being felt in the shares. - Yep, for sure. All right, shares of Trimble and AGCO in focus. That's following news that AGCO will acquire an 85% stake in Trimble's agricultural products business. Companies say the joint venture is meant to better serve farmers worldwide with mixed fleet precision agriculture solutions. Trimble also hired today on the back of an upgrade from Raymond James to outperform from market perform. We have the AGCO CEO coming on later, excited about that interview. Lots of questions for him. What does it mean for competition in the marketplace, I think is a huge one. What's it really mean for farmers? And also his stock, Julie, has not been a performer. It's down about 10% for this year. So also just interesting to get his take on what gets investors excited again about owning that name. JULIE HYMAN: Right, and the buzzword here is precision agriculture, right, is how can farmers be more efficient with what they are doing. Precision agriculture has a lot to do with using technology in order to get the best yield from farms. And I've spoken to Eric Hansotia, the CEO of AGCO, before. And that's one of the things he's already emphasized. And now this Trimble acquisition of these assets is aimed at further improving that. It's interesting that Trimble itself is rising for a second day after this acquisition. And Raymond James pointing to what they say is their long-term favorable thesis on the stock and the evolution to a, quote, "more software recurring revenue centric mix." They also talk about less cyclicality for Trimble, which is interesting, because that's also one of the things that AGCO talked about as being a benefit of this deal. So that's something else that we can ask the CEO about. - Can't wait for that interview. That's a good one. JULIE HYMAN: Yeah, should be good. And then another-- speaking of another interview that we're looking ahead to and another mover that we're watching, Carnival shares in the red today after the company reported third quarter earnings. The cruise line topping expectations, but fourth quarter guidance looking like a concern for investors. The company said it does expect a wider than expected loss of between $0.10 and $0.18 a share in the final quarter of the year, part of that having to do with fuel costs going higher. We've been hearing that a lot from the airlines as well. Obviously, when oil goes up, translates into all kinds of higher costs for companies that depend on the fuel. - Yeah, remember, this one, too, has been a rocket ship. So a lot of good news was priced in there. But yeah, I mean, it was the guidance, your adjusted EBITDA guidance 800 to 900, and the Street was closer to 950. Challenges like those higher fuel costs for sure weighing on there. Mike Lynch, a British technology entrepreneur, was among the six missing passengers who were aboard the Bayesian, a yacht that sank in Sicily, Italy. The Democratic National Convention starts today. How long is it and when does it end? D.C. Councilmember Trayon White Sr. Cases of the mpox virus are rising in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), as the central African country awaits vaccines from the United States and Japan, the health minister said on Monday.The United States has promised 50,000 vaccine doses for DRC, while Japan on Monday agreed Monday to send 3.5 million doses, "only for children," a medical source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told AFP.
The source said that DRC "plans to vaccinate four million people including 3.5 million children". Four Milwaukee hotel workers accused of killing a man in June by pinning him to the ground must stand trial on murder charges, a court official ordered Monday.  Hyatt Hotel security guards Todd Erickson and Brandon Turner along with bellhop Herbert Williamson and front desk worker Devin Johnson-Carson each face one count of being a party to felony murder in D'Vontaye Mitchell's death.  Mitchell’s family’s attorneys have likened his death to the murder of George Floyd, a Black man who died in 2020 after a white Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for about nine minutes. Congo will receive the first vaccine doses to address its mpox outbreak next week from the United States, the country's health minister said Monday, days after the World Health Organization declared mpox outbreaks in Africa a global emergency.  Mpox cases have been confirmed among children and adults in more than a dozen African countries, and a new form of the virus is spreading. Kamala Harris spent years building a formidable political network across the country and online that helped her take over the Democratic Party this summer. Goldman walks back a key economic call. Alabama says a new state law expanding the list of felonies that cause a person to lose their right to vote won't be enforced until after the November election and asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit over the effective date.  The Alabama attorney general office wrote in a Friday court filing that the new law, which has a Oct. 1 effective date, cannot be used to block people from voting in the upcoming election, because the Alabama Constitution prohibits new election laws from taking effect within six months of the general election.  The Campaign Legal Center had filed the lawsuit last month in Montgomery Circuit Court seeking to clarify that the new law cannot block people from voting in the November election. As registration opened Monday for an estimated 500,000 spouses of U.S. citizens to gain legal status without having to first leave the country, Karen and Xavier Chavarria had nothing to celebrate.  Like many others, Karen left the United States voluntarily — in her case, for Nicaragua — as the price of living in the country illegally, planning to accumulate enough time away to be able reenter and reunite with her husband, Xavier, on a path to citizenship. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is set to deliver remarks at the 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. Here's what to know. The position by the Manhattan District Attorney's Office makes it likely that Judge Juan Merchan will sign off on Trump's request. Nicaragua on Monday shuttered 1,500 NGOs, bringing to more than 5,000 the number of such entities scrapped in a crackdown on opponents by President Daniel Ortega.Monday's announcement was the single-largest targeting of NGOs to date, bringing the total to more than 5,100. A contagious and severe strain of mpox is spreading across continents following a major outbreak in central Africa, but it hasn't reached the U.S. yet. Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg signaled openness to former President Donald Trump's request for a delay in his hush money criminal sentencing Retired federal appeals court Judge J. Michael Luttig, a prominent conservative legal scholar put on the bench by President George H.W. Bush, is endorsing Vice President Kamala Harris over former President Donald Trump, whose candidacy he describes as an existential threat to American democracy. Authorities say upward of 6,000 people could march on Monday during a day of demonstrations as the Democratic National Convention began. Home Depot's lackluster report is keeping investors on the sidelines ahead of Lowe's Q2 earnings results. US President Joe Biden will deliver a bittersweet farewell address at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, passing the torch to Kamala Harris as the party's nominee for November's election.Democrats will see Biden the "statesman," while embracing Harris as ready to "carry the torch forward." Ahead of the DNC, many recent polls show Harris ahead in national polls and nearly tied in key swing states.