Give Now 
				 »
 WFIU Public Radio WTIU Public Television Choose which station to support! 


WFIU Public Radio
										
 


WTIU Public Television
										
 Choose which station to support! 	
								    								        Kubota and the other companies part of the MOU cover about 70 percent of all agricultural machinery sold in the U.S.  
								        								
    								        								        (Acroterion via Wikimedia Commons) 
    								        								
 Kubota Tractor Corp. and AGCO have joined memorandums of understanding (MOU) with the American Farm Bureau Federation, allowing farmers, ranchers and independent technicians the “Right to Repair” their own equipment. The MOUs follow similar agreements John Deere and CNH Industrial Brands made with the bureau earlier this year. The companies will provide the necessary software, manuals and diagnostic tools necessary to service equipment. Randy Kron, president of the Indiana Farm Bureau, said it was a only a matter of time before more equipment manufacturers lined up to sign their MOUs. “Deere’s kind of the 800-pound gorilla in this deal, and once they did, the rest of them have pretty well followed along,” he said. “It gives independents (repair shops) and farmers access to the diagnostic tools, to computer systems, so they can go in and analyze what's going on.” Read more: John Deere relents on right to repair, with a catch The American Farm Bureau Federation estimates that the four MOUs cover about 70 percent of all agricultural machinery sold in the U.S. Kron said that the AFBF will continue to pursue remaining companies for MOUs. Right to Repair rules should save farmers’ time and money. During harvest season, authorized repair shops would routinely get backed up with maintenance queues leading to longer turnaround times on projects and delays in getting work completed on-time. Deeper in the MOUs is language allowing the companies to pull out of the agreement should farmers or farm bureaus lobby for right to repair legislation. Kron said this was done to create a standard across the country. “American Farm Bureau said they would work and try to limit any state because, really, you can't have 50 sets of rules,” Kron said. “You'll make it impossible for them to operate by, so the MOU gives you one standard one base. The AFBF and the various companies will meet semi-annually to evaluate the MOUs and suggest updates. Read more: Composting workshop to be held next Saturday Want to contact your legislators about an issue that matters to you? 
		Find out how to contact your senators and member of Congress here.
	 Indiana Public Media is the home of WFIU Public Radio WTIU Public Television, including your favorite programming from NPR and PBS. Learn More  © 2024, The Trustees of Indiana University • Copyright Complaints 1229 East Seventh Street, Bloomington, Indiana 47405