WITH the gorgeous weather set to continue throughout this month, many of us will be looking to get out and about - and that includes when dining. Whether it’s a picnic in the park, BBQ at home or enjoying a meal out with family and friends, dining outdoors is the way to go while the sun is shining. Here’s a round up of some of Scotland’s top spots to dine al-fresco this summer. Celentano’s in Glasgow, awarded a Michelin Bib Gourmand just six months after opening, is an outdoor dining space offering the perfect afternoon suntrap. A hidden gem in Glasgow’s east end located at the Cathedral Square, the terraced area lets guests enjoy both delicious Italian-inspired small plates, seasonal cocktails and a glass of wine or two, while overlooking the city’s breath-taking Necropolis. Celentano’s also use this space to grow seasonal fruits and herbs, as well as blooms, which means you’ll be seated among some of the ingredients you’ll be enjoying in your food and cocktails. There’s awnings and heaters to keep you cosy as the evenings draw in. Head to the east coast and The Ship Inn in Elie, Fife for a fabulous day out with sites to see, waters to wade in and food to die for. This iconic pub and restaurant with rooms is right by the beach in the pretty seaside town. Summer at The Ship brings barbeques, and alfresco casual dining. You might also catch a cricket match as it’s the only pub in Britain to have its own team that pitches on the beach. The beer garden, bar and some bedrooms are dog friendly, with homemade treats for well-behaved pooches. The menu features seasonal shellfish, seafood, and meat dishes, boasting everything from comfort food classics like fish and chips and the famed Ship Inn burger, with ingredients sourced as locally as possible. Nestled on the banks of the River Dee, Maryculter House in Aberdeen, is one of Scotland’s oldest hotels, steeped in history and full of character. The outdoor terrace is flooded with sunlight all day long, meaning diners can enjoy a full Scottish breakfast, light lunch or afternoon tea al-fresco in the picturesque Royal Deeside. Seasonality inspires the menus at Maryculter House, which allows the team to make the most of the great local businesses of Aberdeenshire, such as Rora Dairy who supply delicious yoghurt, fish from Sutherland’s of Portsoy, Ballater Haggis, fresh berries from Castletown Farm and grill items supplied by Sheridans of Ballater. Banca di Roma is Glasgow’s hottest new Italian restaurant, with a menu inspired by the Campania region of Italy, with a focus on wholesome, Italian food that’s ideal for sharing. It recently launched an al-fresco dining space on the terrace, where guests can enjoy food and drink in the Glasgow sunshine, at tables sat atop Banca di Roma’s grand stone staircase, overlooking the city’s Royal Exchange Square. The Bridge Inn in Ratho, Edinburgh is nestled peacefully on the banks of the Union Canal, and just a 20 minute drive from Edinburgh city centre. This award-winning Inn has been at the heart of the Ratho community for 13 years and they recently reopened their outdoor Canal Bar and Terrace for the summer, complete with custom-built street-food hut and beer garden. The space is surrounded by mature trees and overlooks the Union Canal, making it one of Edinburgh’s most picturesque beer gardens. The menu includes a selection of homemade subs, a variety of delicious milkshakes, an array of local beers and fresh, summer cocktails created in collaboration with Edinburgh Gin. Throughout the summer, guests dining or drinking at the Canal Bar can enjoy live music from local bands on the Terrace, as well as music from some of Edinburgh’s popular DJ’s at the weekends. Head back to Fife and 18 at Rusacks in beautiful St Andrews. This rooftop Scottish restaurant opened last summer and sits on the fourth floor, with a full glass wall offering a panoramic view across the Old Course, West Sands, and the North Sea - arguably the best views in St Andrews. The menu overseen by Executive Chef and MasterChef: The Professionals inaugural winner, Derek Johnstone focuses on open flame cooked dishes and contemporary and innovative game and seafood dishes.  The rooftop restaurant also features a putting green for added fun! We pay for your stories and videos! Do you have a story or video for The Scottish Sun? Email us at scoop@thesun.co.uk or call 0141 420 5200  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.