Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Sailor Moon fans everywhere are waiting with bated breath to see Sailor Moon Cosmos, the two-part finale to the Sailor Moon Crystal adaptation The film will be hitting Japanese theaters soon (June 9, 2023 [Part 1]; June 30, 2023 [Part 2]) while American viewers are still waiting on news for a US release. One of the reasons for the anticipation has to do with the fact that this will be the first "true" adaptation of the Sailor Stars manga, and will include characters and storylines the original anime adaptation left on the cutting room floor.
                         This includes what is the most anticipated inclusion in the movie: Sailor Cosmos! Considered a highlight by many fans of the books, Sailor Cosmos is as mysterious as she is cool. Her omission from the original Sailor Star anime remains a sore spot for Sailor Moon fans. While her inclusion was initially praised, recent events have made the inclusion of the character controversial.
      RELATED: Sailor Moon Pendant Made Using Edo Era Japanese Silverwork
  Please be advised that there will be spoilers for the entire Sailor Moon story below, so be warned.
                     Sailor Cosmos is a character from the final Sailor Moon arc Sailor Stars. In the Sailor Moon storyline, Sailor Cosmos appears as a mysterious and powerful warrior. She is said to have traveled from the far future, where she witnessed a devastating battle that resulted in the destruction of the entire universe. Feeling overwhelmed by despair and hopelessness, Sailor Cosmos refused to fight in that conflict and chose to flee, burdened with guilt and regret.
                         Sailor Cosmos is often portrayed as a figure of great wisdom and sorrow, haunted by the weight of her decisions. She presents herself as a counselor to Sailor Moon and her friends, warning them about the consequences of their actions and the potential devastation they may bring. However, Sailor Cosmos ultimately leaves the choice in the hands of Sailor Moon, as she believes in her ability to make the right decisions and create a better future.
                         One of the things that makes her so mysterious is that her origins are never fully explained. While many assume that she is a future incarnation of Sailor Moon, it ultimately is never confirmed who she is or where she comes from. Though there is enough anecdotal evidence to suggest she is a future version of Sailor Moon (the hairstyle, her guilt at running away fearful, and the staff she uses as a weapon), original author Naoko Takeuchi has remained coy about the identity and purpose of the character, letting readers come to their own conclusions.
                         One of the reasons fans were looking forward to the film adaptation is they were hoping that the new movie (particularly with the voice casting) could provide new clarity behind the mysterious character. Unfortunately for fans, the voice actress is adding to the confusion rather than clarifying it.
                         Keiko Kitagawa is a Japanese actress and former model. She was born on August 22, 1986, in Hyogo Prefecture, Japan. Keiko gained prominence in the entertainment industry through her modeling career and later transitioned to acting, appearing in various television dramas and films.
                         One of her most notable roles is in the live-action adaptation Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon. Throughout her career, Keiko Kitagawa has appeared in numerous television dramas, including Mop Girl, Dear Sister, and The First Class. She has also starred in films such as Dear Friends, The After-Dinner Mysteries, and Room Laundering, among others.
                         You would think that Kitagawa's previous involvement with a Sailor Moon series would be a good thing; that it would be non-controversial and welcomed by fans of the franchise. However, it's actually because of her previous involvement with Sailor Moon that her casting is causing controversy (especially considering who she played on that show).
                         Despite not being outright confirmed, it is generally believed by fans that Sailor Cosmo is Sailor Moon in the future. With regard to Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon, Keiko Kitagawa may have been involved, but she wasn't playing Sailor Moon; she was portraying Sailor Mars. This has caused many Sailor Moon fans to question whether their theories of Sailor Cosmos being Sailor Moon are not incorrect.
                         Is Sailor Cosmos actually Sailor Mars? Why wasn't Miyuu Sawai (the actress who portrayed Sailor Moon in the show) contacted? Does this mean Chicbi Chibi is off the table as being Sailor Cosmos? Was this stunt casting or a hint to Sailor Cosmos true identity (it should be noted that Kitagawa went on to have the biggest career out of the entire cast in later years). Then, of course, there are people who felt that Kotono Mitsuishi (the long-time voice actress for Usagi Tsukino) should have played dual roles, confirming the identity of Sailor Cosmos once and for all.
                         At the end of the day, the casting decision likely came down to talent and says little about the character, but that makes the situation more frustrating for fans who want some closer on the character's identity. It appears the mystery behind Sailor Cosmos identity is to remain a mystery for the immediate future. On the other hand, one fans controversy may be a mere clue to another fans guessing game. Maybe the movie itself will finally clear some things up in the end.
      MORE: This Sailor Moon Spinoff STILL Doesn’t Have an Anime Adaptation!
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. There's a lot of isekai anime out there, and it was inevitable that quite a few heroes and heroines became forgotten over time. Sabo will finally reveal the details behind the Revolutionary Army's infiltration of Marijoa. What could they be planning? Dead Cells releases its final update, marking the end of a significant phase in the game's development with a range of new features and improvements. Check out this guide to find out the release dates for every major video game coming out in 2024. After the success of FNAF Into the Pit, another story from the Fazbear Frights series offers a compelling case for adaptation. Naruto x Boruto Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections is very similar to its predecessors but has some changes that players need to adapt to. A Red Dead Redemption 2 fan thinks there is a Harry Potter reference in the game involving John Marston's scar that is hiding in plain sight.