Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Saturday September 23, 2023 , 4 min Read Thanks to the success of the Chandrayaan-3 mission, India's space industry has garnered global attention. And, basking in the glory are Indian startups in the sector.  On World Astronomy Day, here's a look at India's top startups in the space industry.  Only a few years back, India's space economy was $9.6 billion in 2020 but now it is expected to reach $13 billion by 2025, according to a report released by Indian Space Association (ISpA) and Ernst and Young. Thanks to emerging space-tech startups in India and supporting government frameworks such as the Indian Space Policy, the space sector has gotten bigger.   In fact, according to EY, India is home to more than space-tech startups.  Pixxel, founded in 2019 by Awais Ahmed and Kshitij Khandelwal, is a space-tech startup based in Hyderabad. It specialises in developing hyperspectral Earth-imaging satellites, which are a collection of high-resolution images.  This remote-sensing technology on Pixxel satellites enables us to see Earth's surface in great detail which helps to understand and monitor water and air quality, soil health, and much more. Pixxel collects this vital information to provide real-time data and analytics to help industries make better decisions or planning.   In 2022, Pixxel launched their first hyperspectral satellite named "Shakuntala" which was carried by an Elon Musk-owned, SpaceX Falcon-9 rocket. The startup has received funding from Google, Techstars, Omnivore VC, Radical Ventures, etc.  Agnikul Cosmos is a private aerospace startup, based on the National Center for Combustion R&D at IIT-Madras. Founded in 2017 by Srinath Ravichandran and Moin SPM aims to make affordable and customisable space vehicles.   This aerospace firm primarily focuses on building and launching orbital-class rockets, especially for micro and nanosatellites. Currently, Agnikul Cosmos is developing a completely 3D-printed satellite. In 2022, it set up India’s first-ever launch pad in Sriharikota. Altogether, it has raised a total of $34.5 million from Mayfield Fund, and LionRock Capital. CIIE, Globevestor, and many more.  Headquartered in Telangana, Skyroot Aerospace is a private aerospace manufacturer and commercial launch service provider startup in India. This firm was started by former engineers and scientists from ISRO, Pawan Kumar Chandana and Naga Bharath Daka.  Right now, Skyroot Aerospace is working to develop and launch the Vikram series. The Vikram I, II, and III are capable of carrying payloads from 200 kg to 700 kg into low Earth orbit (LEO) and sun-synchronous orbit (SSO).  This firm also won the National Startup Awards 2020. Moreover, in 2022, Skyroot Aerospace secured $51 million in Series C funding led by GIC.  Bellatrix Aerospace is a private Banglore-based aerospace manufacturer company. It was founded by Rohan Ganapathy, Nuthan Prasanna, and Yashas Karanam back in 2015. This startup is known for developing innovative thrusters and got an order from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).  Initially, the startup was planning to develop a satellite launch vehicle into low Earth orbit (LEO) named "Chetak" in 2023. However, Bellatrix Aerospace announced that they have discounted working on Chetak on X (formerly Twitter).   Despite changing their focus, Bellatrix Aerospace secured $8 million in Series A funding in 2022. Additionally, it signed a contract with the Karnataka government to set up a $76 million factory to make eco-friendly propulsion technologies for satellites in Bangalore.  Dhruva Space, founded by Sanjay Srikanth Nekkanti in 2012, is a private aerospace startup in India. This Hyderabad-based firm makes small satellite platforms for commercial, governmental and academic markets.   According to the firm, it provides full-stack space engineering solutions. Its services also include satellite launching, development and ground station solutions. This startup also won in Telangana State Industrial Awards 2022 and received the “Best Startup – Silver” award.  Furthermore, Dhruva Space was invited to the Dubai Expo in 2020 by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). In 2021, it raised Rs 22 crore led by IAN Fund and Blue Ashva Capital.  1 2 Foxconn working on plans to set up battery energy storage system unit in India 3 Rare Rabbit raises Rs 150 Cr from A91 Partners, Nikhil Kamath-backed NkSquared, and others
 4 Slice receives NCLT approval for merger with North East Small Finance Bank 5 EQT Private Capital Asia’s Mid-Market Growth Fund raises $1.6B
