Japan has been praised by fellow Asian countries for its sustainability and conservation efforts in a new poll with Thailand claiming fifth place, would you believe? Over 13,000 respondents from more than ten countries participated in the Sustainable Impact Survey 2023 conducted by the online travel agency Agoda. The respondents were asked to rank countries based on their sustainability efforts, and they ranked their home countries highly for their conservation measures. Seven out of 11 markets gave their own country the highest rating, including Thailand, India, Vietnam, Australia, Korea, Indonesia, and Japan, reported TravelDaily News. The publication of the survey findings marks the beginning of Agoda’s Eco Deals campaign, which aims to raise US$250,000 for World Wild Fund for Nature (WWF) initiatives in Asia. This campaign is an effort to encourage travellers to make more sustainable choices while travelling, as sustainability is becoming an increasingly important issue for people around the world. Enric Casals, Vice-President Southeast Asia and Oceania at Agoda, said… “Sustainability is clearly on travellers’ minds, with many aware of the environmental measures being taken in their home country as well abroad. “In addition, travellers are looking for ways to minimize their ecological footprints while making a positive impact on the places they visit. Agoda’s Eco Deals program aims to facilitate this movement by giving travellers the opportunity to support conservation initiatives simply by booking an Eco Deal accommodation.” The campaign has been expanded this year to include accommodations from Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, and India, who have joined the campaign to participate in the US$250,000 donation from Agoda. The donations will fund marine and wildlife conservation programs in the participating markets, ranging from the prevention of wildlife trade trafficking in Singapore, restoring deforested areas in Indonesia, and supporting elephant conservation in Thailand. Travellers who participate in the Eco Deals campaign will not only be supporting important conservation efforts, but they will also enjoy discounts on their accommodations. This is a win-win situation for both travellers and the environment, as it encourages people to make more sustainable choices while travelling. Agoda’s Sustainable Impact Survey 2023 highlights the importance of sustainability and conservation efforts in the travel industry. The survey shows that people around the world are increasingly concerned about sustainability and are looking for ways to make more sustainable choices while travelling. Agoda’s Eco Deals campaign is an excellent initiative that encourages people to make these choices and support important conservation efforts at the same time.  Copyright © 2024 Thaiger 