Conducting over 100 raids, verifying more than 80 people related to various gangs, securing bonds from 36 and arresting 10. This is how Jharkhand Police conducted its week-long drive against the initial phase of its clampdown against organised crime in the state. The entire operations were carried out by Jharkhand Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) between July 16 and July 24 to trace the gangs, their hideouts, supporters, their financial sources among others. During these raids, two police personnel with the ATS, including a deputy superintendent of police, sustained bullet injuries. Both are undergoing treatment at a Ranchi hospital. The Jharkhand Police are also preparing a criminal database of organised criminals in a bid to implement its ‘zero tolerance’ policy. AV Homkar, IG Operations, said that the ATS identified people related to organised criminal gangs – whose masterminds are currently in jail – such as Aman Sahu, Aman Singh, Aman Srivastava, Prince Khan of Dhanbad district, deceased Kalu Lama’s gang of Ranchi district, Lavkush Sharma gang jailed in Ramgarh district among others. “In the initial phase, raids have been conducted at 109 places in Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Latehar, Palamu, Ranchi and Bokaro under covert operations. The ATS questioned 45 suspects and most of the absconding accused were arrested,” the officer said. The police said that they tracked the affiliates of jailed gangsters and the first encounter took place on July 17 with the operatives of the Aman Sahu gang where the DSP got injured. On the same day, ATS with the help of local police arrested shooter Chandan Shaw, a gang member of jailed gangster Aman Sahu. Shaw was wanted in the murder of an employee at Rithvik Infrastructure Company in Hazaribagh’s Barkagaon and a shooting in Agoda, Ranchi. Two days later the squad arrested Warish Ansari and Sonu Kumar. Aman Sahu gang’s shooter Siddharth Kumar alias Bobby Shaw was arrested in Baharon village by the Bhandara police in Lohardaga. “Both the shooters in Aman Sahu’s gang used to extort large sums of money from the employees of coal companies and other businesses by issuing them threats,” Homkar said. The ATS arrested Ejaz Ansari and Minku Khan of Aman Shrivastava gang on July 20 and seized close to Rs 50 lakh in cash along with a vehicle. On July 24, the sleuths arrested three members of one Kallu Lama gang. The trio – Rohit Munda, Abhishek Malik and Shubham Vishwakarma – have murdered one Bittu Khan of Lavkush gang in Ranchi’s Morabadi area. “Kallu Lama gang had terrorised people residing in Ranchi’s Morabadi and Barwadda area of Dhanbad,” the police said. Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Nine people have been arrested in the Porsche accident case, including the 17-year-old driver whose blood sample was swapped with his mother's at Sassoon Hospital. A chargesheet has been filed and bail applications submitted, with evidence showing the driver was drunk. Previous arrests include the minor's parents and hospital staff for conspiring to swap the samples.  