Hayley Smith travelled for ten hours to Dublin, with eight-year-old son Cohen only to be turned away due to 'no kids policy' Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters Sign up to our daily newsletter for the latest local and breaking news in Bristol. We have more newsletters A furious mum has vowed never to visit Ireland again after she and her son travelled for 10 hours to their £365 holiday room - only to be turned away due to a 'no kids policy'. Hayley Smith had travelled for ten hours on August 2, by car and ferry from Derby, to Dublin, Ireland, with eight-year-old son Cohen Smith. The 27-year-old says that when she arrived at the ALTIDO pop-up hotel at Highlight Thomas Street, the receptionist refused to let the pair in claiming that children weren't allowed on the premises because of 'insurance'. 'Livid' Hayley says she handed over her phone that showed she'd booked an ensuite double room on travel agent Agoda's website for four nights for one adult and one child, aged eight. But she claims the receptionist refused to let them in leaving them with nowhere to go. The childminder forked out £420 for another hotel 20 minutes away but 'heartbroken' Hayley decided to go home two days early because it was too far away from the activities they'd planned. ALTIDO pop-up hotel has apologised and said it didn't know the booking was made via Agoda, which had an incorrect listing, and will be issuing a refund. Hayley, from Derby, Derbyshire, said: "It was student accommodation but it's empty so they're renting out the rooms. "There was no parking outside so we had to walk about 15 minutes with our bags. When we got there, the receptionist shook her head and said 'children aren't allowed in here'. "I got up the email that confirmed it was for one adult and child, it even said his age in brackets and she said she didn't know why it had let us book but children aren't allowed in because of insurance. They said there was nothing they could do, I had to contact Agoda. "We'd come all that way and had nowhere to go. I was livid.  "I felt stranded because I was in a different country. I didn't even have the car nearby, it was getting dark and Cohen hadn't eaten. It was horrendous. I didn't know what the hell to do. "We got a taxi to the car and I had to drive 20 minutes to the new accommodation but it was horrible so we came back early. The only thing I want is my money back. I won't go to Ireland again. I'm put off." Hayley claims that Agoda offered her a full refund and £50 to spend on their website but she says she'll never use them to book accommodation again. Hayley booked the trip last month and had planned to take Cohen to a wax museum and on a boat trip. A return trip on the ferry had cost £300 and she had to pay for a new ticket when she decided to go home early. The mum-of-one booked accommodation at the pop-up hotel, which partners with Highlight Thomas Street throughout the summer period when students leave in a bid to accommodate the high demand of tourism in Dublin. Hayley said: "I wanted to do a road trip and it was the easiest place to get to. There's lots of things to do for children, we'd been looking forward to it. I put £80 worth of petrol in the car, the ferry was £300 and then we had to pay to come home early. "I contacted Agoda and they said I can have a full refund and offered me £50 to use with their company which I won't be doing again. I want them to explain why I was allowed to book a room for a child if children aren't allowed in the building." Agoda was contacted for comment. An ALTIDO pop-up hotel spokesman said: "According to our system, the guest made this booking via Booking.com and we were unaware at the time that the booking was made via Agoda. "The Booking.com listing clearly states that no children under the age of 18 are permitted and that the property is adult-only. As such, due to the policy, we were unable to accommodate the guest and to provide a refund at that time. "However, since being notified that the booking was made via Agoda and not via Booking.com directly, we have discovered that the Agoda listing is incorrect and as such will be issuing a refund in full to the guest. We sincerely apologise for the situation the guest was put in here." 