The draw means Dortmund have a two-point lead at the top of the table but second-place Bayern Munich have a game in hand Bundesliga leaders Borussia Dortmund saw their title chances dealt a blow as they were held to a draw at VfL Bochum. The result means second-place Bayern will go top with four games to go if they beat bottom club Hertha Berlin on Sunday. Anthony Losilla's fierce strike from outside the box gave Bochum the lead but Karim Adeyemi tapped in an equaliser two minutes later. Jude Bellingham was denied late on as Bochum battled for the point. Dortmund are top with 61 points but Bayern Munich are just two behind before Sunday's game.  Union Berlin are third on 55 points and host Bayer Leverkusen on Saturday. This video can not be played Will Bellingham stay or move? The view from Dortmund Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE England still Stokes' team, says stand-in skipper Pope Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.