
                            By
                                Ryan Smith
 American International Group has announced the appointment of Patricia Walsh (pictured above) as executive vice president and general counsel. The appointment will take effect Dec. 1. In her new role, Walsh will be responsible for AIG’s legal, compliance and regulatory functions. She will report to Peter Zaffino, chairman and CEO of AIG, and serve on the company’s executive leadership team. Rose Marie Glazer will remain interim general counsel until Walsh assumes the role. Prior to joining AIG, Walsh served as general counsel and corporate secretary at Stripe. She has also served as a director on the board of Corebridge Financial since September 2022. Before joining Stripe, Walsh served as executive vice president and chief legal officer at Voya Financial. She has also served as deputy general counsel at Signa and MassMutual. “Trish is a top legal expert in financial services, with considerable insurance industry knowledge, customer focus, and experience navigating today’s financial and regulatory environment,” Zaffino said. “I am very excited to have Trish join us at this pivotal time as we position AIG for the next phase of our journey to becoming a top-performing company. As chairman of the Corebridge Financial board of directors, I have had the opportunity to work closely with Trish and I am very confident that she will be a terrific addition to our leadership team and will have a significant and positive impact on AIG.” “I am honoured and proud to join AIG, an iconic company poised for exciting expansion and global growth,” Walsh said. “Over my career, I’ve been privileged to help new companies scale and established companies find new opportunities to increase enterprise value. AIG’s leadership team, under Peter’s guidance, encompasses both the bold vision and mission-driven focus I associate with startups with the disciplined execution and operational excellence of more established companies. I’m thrilled to be part of AIG’s journey.” Last month, AIG announced the appointment of Edward L. Danridge as chief marketing and communications officer. The company also recently announced the appointment of Lucy Fato as vice chair. Have something to say about this story? Let us know in the comments below.