Business | Business News Our unmissable weekly email of all the gossip, rumours and covert goings-on inside the Square Mile  I would like to be emailed about offers, event and updates from Evening Standard. Read our privacy notice. Insurance giant Aviva has agreed to buy the UK protection arm of American International Group (AIG) for £460 million. The deal to snap up AIG Life UK will add 1.3 million individual protection customers and 1.4 million group members. Aviva chief executive Amanda Blanc said: “This acquisition brings significant strategic and financial benefits to Aviva. It strengthens our prospects in the highly attractive UK protection market and continues our progress in repositioning the group towards capital-light growth Amanda Blanc, Aviva “It strengthens our prospects in the highly attractive UK protection market and continues our progress in repositioning the group towards capital-light growth.” The deal is expected to complete in the first half of 2024. FTSE 100-listed Aviva said the combined businesses will “create a more efficient platform from which to serve existing and new customers”. AIG Life was set up in 2014 following AIG’s takeover of Ageas Protect and it launched into the protection market four years later, with its acquisition of Ellipse from Munich Re. AIG Life reported £158 million of new business sales in 2022. The deal comes after Aviva recently sold off its 25.9% stake in Singapore Life Holdings, together with two debt instruments, to Sumitomo Life Insurance Company in a deal worth £800 million. Ms Blanc said at the time it was a move to further simplify the business and its global footprint. Aviva had already sold its majority stake in Aviva Singapore in 2020. Woman dies and girl, 17, injured in Manchester triple stabbing Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs Celebrate Art of London’s collaborations with women artists Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT 1 UK Woman dies and girl, 17, injured in Manchester triple stabbing 2 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 3 Football Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs 4 UK Sicily yacht sinking LIVE: London tech boss Mike Lynch 'among several missing' as Bayesian superyacht sinks 5 Showbiz Eamonn Holmes replaced on GB News with no explanation