
  Business leaders are braced for a greater impact from a controversial new tourism licensing regime than even they expected.
 
  Concerns over the short-term lets licensing scheme come as one local authority at the forefront of its implementation said along with pressures from a planned visitor levy, or tourist tax, 80% of self-catering tourism firms would face closure.
 
  The worrying statistic has been revealed by the City of Edinburgh Council papers that are being discussed today. Take five minutes to catch up.
 
What is happening with Airbnb in Scotland?
 
  The Scottish Government has moved to address the impact of the rise of unregulated Airbnb-style short-term letting accommodation, including the effects on the supply of housing for residents and concerns over anti-social behaviour, with a licensing scheme.
 
READ MORE: Eight out of ten self-caterers in city to close
 
  It comes against the backdrop of a rise in the number of Airbnb listings in the UK from 83,000 in 2016 to 339,000 this year.
 
What is the licensing scheme and when does it kick in?
 
  The scheme is mandatory for all short-term let accommodation across Scotland, including holiday cottages, B&Bs, guest houses, pods, and yurts and it is due to go live on October 1.
 
    ‘Our worst fears exceeded:’ 80 per cent of self-caterers in city to close https://t.co/uSzhLIUiUT
 
  So far, the majority of operators have not signed up. Local authorities have been given powers to designate control areas to manage high concentrations of short-term lets. 
 
Why are people not signing up for this?
 
  Many consider it too onerous with costs ranging from £86 to £24,000 and there are concerns around planning permission. Industry insiders warn the cost of complying with the system can be prohibitive and additional red-tape and expense is said to be prompting people to exit the industry.
 
READ MORE: Anger over Humza Yousaf ‘disdain’ for Scottish tourism
 
  The Association of Scotland’s Self-Caterers said its recent survey of around 1,270 short-let businesses found more than 60% of operators had yet to apply for a licence.
 
What will the impact be?
 
  Tourism leaders say the scheme “risks criminalising” hard-working people who have operated small firms for decades, and there are fears the implementation of the scheme will devastate Scottish tourism and in particular jewels in the crown like the city of Edinburgh and the Highlands.
 
  The ASSC, which represents over 1,700 businesses, said that “there should be legislation, but this approach is flawed and must be amended", and added: "Our worst fears have not only been realised, they have been exceeded."
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.