NEW PHILADELPHIA ‒ Mayor Joel Day is urging council to consider enacting legislation to regulate short-term rental properties such as Airbnb and Vrbo in the city. He told council that local Realtors have told him that there has been increased interest in purchasing houses in residential areas to operate as short-term rentals. More on regulations: Effort to regulate Airbnbs in New Philadelphia on hold "The city doesn't necessarily want to discourage this type of business development, but it does need to be regulated like our hotels and motels," he said. "Presently short-term rentals are not required to meet the code requirements, have inspections or collect and remit lodging tax as hotels and motels must do." City officials have been working on this issue for years but the effort was put on hold in 2022 when the Ohio General Assembly considered House Bill 563, which would have made it difficult for local governments to ban or restrict short-term rentals. Day provided testimony at the time against the measure. HB 563 never moved out of committee. Incident in Bucks Township: Tuscarawas County sheriff's deputy hit by vehicle while responding to 300-person 'party' According to the Tuscarawas County Convention & Visitors Bureau, there are currently 194 Airbnb and Vrbo listings in the county with 1,155 beds, including nine listings in the city of New Philadelphia. The average room rental is $208 per night. So far this year, occupancy has been at 19% and total revenue has been $1.8 million in Tuscarawas County. In 2022, average room rental was $186 per night, with a 48.3% occupancy rate. Total revenue last year was $3.2 million for Tuscarawas County. More on rentals: New $1.5 million rental property part of vacation home growth in Tuscarawas County Rose Tipka, who owns three vacation rental properties in Tuscarawas County, believes that the regulation of the industry should be left up to the professionals. She doesn't own any properties in New Philadelphia. "I think when you have professional hosts, they adhere to community standards that provide excellent accommodations and care for their guests, and we should always encourage the professional hosts to be the ones doing it," she said. "Unfortunately, there's a lot of messaging out there that being an Airbnb host is super easy and really profitable. As somebody who does it, it is a lot of work and it does take a lot of education. I think the key there is having these professional hosts do what they do best." During discussion on legislation, Councilwoman Cheryl Ramos told the mayor that her top priority is regulation of rental properties in the city, not regulation of short-term rentals. "It's not safe to have multiple families and multiple people living in single-family homes, people living in basements without egress windows," she said. "I see a lot. There's children involved, too. I continue to get complaints from my constituents and neighbors about the trash, the number of cars parked ‒ like a mini car lot in front of a single-family home." Residents have also complained about junk vehicles, trailers, campers and boats in yards. Day responded that there is no reason why council can't deal with short-term rentals and rental properties at the same time. Draft legislation on both issues, as well as creation of a vacant property registry, was assigned to council's Economic Development Committee. Reach Jon at 330-364-8415 or at jon.baker@timesreporter.com.  This article originally appeared on The Times-Reporter: Joel Day wants New Philadelphia to regulate Airbnbs New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.