With various wildfires burning across the state right now, Arizona's wildfire season, which typically extends from May through early October, has just gotten started. Although there have been significant fires such as the Volunteer and Bullet fires, which burned 2,675 and 3,249 acres, respectively, this year has seen a decrease in fire activity across the state. According to statistics from the National Interagency Fire Center, in 2023 there have been 12 fires that burned more than 100 acres, with a total area of about 12,172 acres being burned across the state so far this year. In contrast, by this same time in 2022, there were 22 wildfires that had started, which eventually burned 127,643 acres across the state. Wildlife experts and meteorologists chimed in as to why this year's wildfire season has been milder than other record-breaking seasons. Gabriel Lojero, a meteorologist at the Phoenix office of the National Weather Service spoke on some of the weather conditions that have affected this year's wildfire season. “We've had a really active winter and then we had a lot of snowfall across the high country and then good rainfall in the lower elevations and then cooler-than-normal temperatures," Lojero said. "In fact, we're still seeing that persist right through the earlier part of the summer." Rainfall statistics from the National Weather Service also show the differences in rainfall between 2022 and 2023. During the first six months of 2022, only 0.9 inch of rainfall was seen in Phoenix. Compared with the first five months of 2023, we have already seen 3.34 inches of rainfall. According to statistics from the U.S. Drought Monitor, produced at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, drought conditions across the state are less severe than those in 2022. In 2022, the entire state was under drought conditions; this year, only about 18% of the state is experiencing some level of drought conditions. Wildfire map:Track where fires are burning in Arizona in 2023 Michael Crimmins, professor of climatology at the University of Arizona, is a wildfire expert who has studied climate conditions and their effects on wildfires for the past 18 years. “In the fire community, they think of fuels in terms of very heavy fuels which are like trees and logs and it takes a long time for them to wet up and it takes a long time for them to dry down,” Crimmins said. “If you get wet conditions that persist for months or seasons, then those fuels, they can get wet and it can take a while for them to dry up.” Fuels such as trees and grasses dry at different speeds, depending on environmental factors and the diameter of the fuel. According to statistics from the U.S. Forest Service's Wildland Fire Assessment System, fuels could dry out as fast as one hour to as slow as 42 days. “We're now going into the monsoon season,” Lojero said. “Once we get those daily thunderstorms to start materializing across the area due to the monsoon, then the wildfire season is going to shut off once we get that precipitation due to the monsoon pattern.” According to Crimmins, this year's increased moisture could be helpful in preventing the spread of lightning-caused fires across the state. How are fires forecasted?What we know about Arizona's new year-round fire season "It (lightning) can be very effective at igniting fires in dry conditions (especially dry lightning, which occurs in storms with little rain), but will be limited this year if fuel moisture levels are still high when storms occur," Crimmins said. This year’s monsoon has been forecasted to have drier-than-normal conditions with above-normal temperatures. Arizona's monsoon season normally runs from June 15 to Sept. 15. According to Lojera, there is about a 35% chance for these conditions with a 65% chance of a normal to an above-than-normal level of precipitation in the region. But this year’s monsoon might be slightly delayed, according to forecasts from the National Weather Service. Crimmins believes that this delay might cause a specific window of time to open which could see an increase in wildfires, but it might not be enough to increase the current levels of wildfires. “I wouldn't expect even in that short window to have big fires erupting across the Southwest just because we've had all these other beneficial things going on in the background, like fuel moisture and soil moisture,” Crimmins said.