David Chang is taking his talents to “Thursday Night Football.” The acclaimed chef and entrepreneur has signed on with Amazon’s Prime Video to do food-driven segments for select games in the Thursday package, the company confirmed exclusively to The Post.  Starting Thursday night when the Commanders host the Bears, Chang plans to check out local tailgates and highlight local chefs, restaurants and their cuisine. Chang told The Post how this opportunity came about. “My company, Majordomo Media, is actually in conversation with Amazon about a few different projects, and when they saw some potential for me to tell stories on ‘Thursday Night Football,’ it didn’t take much to get the deal done. Food has always helped me better understand the world, whether it’s a new culture, a new person, or a new city,” Chang said. “There are thirty-two unique NFL fanbases spread across the country, each passionate about their specific rituals and traditions. I can’t think of a better way to explore the country, with food as a way in.” His first feature will air on the pregame show, “TNF Tonight.” Chang grew up in the DC area and said he is thrilled to be returning back for the first time with the Commanders under new management. He plans to showcase local institutions such as Old Ebbitt Grill, Ben’s Chilli Bowl and Martin’s Tavern, which he credits for keeping “the Washington flame burning during the dark years.” Chang founded Momofuku, which now has offshoots across New York City, in 2004. He hosts “The Dave Chang Show” for the Ringer and created and starred in the Netflix series “Ugly Delicious.” The Black Friday matchup between the Jets and Dolphins at MetLife Stadium will be one of the pregames on which Chang will be featured. Stream the game live on Thursday night on Amazon Prime Video Though it’s presumable that Amazon will whip up any number of integrations for its Black Friday NFL excursion, the specific plans will not be revealed until a later date. “David Chang is an avid NFL fan and we are thrilled to bring his unique talents, personality and culinary expertise to ‘Thursday Night Football,’” Mike Muriano, Executive Producer of Live Sports for Prime Video, said in a statement.  “Food and football are such a big part of the fan experience — so, to have someone of David’s caliber celebrate fans and put his spin on the role food plays on gameday culture will be an exciting addition to our broadcast.” In addition to “Thursday Night Football,” Prime Video exclusively airs a number of Yankees games and a WNBA package.  Advertisement