Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Scott Gries/Getty Images British adventurer and environmentalist David de Rothschild Nick Ut/ap In this June 17. 2009, file photo, former Hollywood private eye Anthony Pellicano is shown in court in Los Angeles.  (AP Photo/Nick Ut, File) LEON NEAL / AFP/Getty Images Angelina Jolie Jamie McCarthy/Getty Sonja Morgan attends the 30th Annual GLAAD Media Awards New York, May 04, 2019. (Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for GLAAD) British adventurer and environmentalist David de Rothschild Angelina Jolie’s new friend David de Rothschild might be more interesting than Brad Pitt.The son of the late Sir Evelyn de Rothschild is an heir of the Rothschild banking family of England.This column reported a few weeks ago that Angie was looking for an appropriate partner. Now maybe she has found him.The British explorer has been living in Venice Beach with Ukrainian actress Karina Deyko and is friends with actor Ezra Miller and Fiat heir Lapo Elkann.De Rothschild owns a clothing company called Lost Explorer, but he’s better known as a climate change activist who has hiked to both poles.He also built a catamaran, Plastiki, out of discarded plastic bottles and then sailed the boat from San Francisco to Sydney.
British adventurer and environmentalist David de RothschildDe Rothschild, a connoisseur of beautiful women, once dated actress Diane Kruger.While their very public three-hour lunch was all philanthropy and let’s save the planet together, sources say Jolie and de Rothschild were taking measure of each other.

*******As the lead prosecutor for the U.S. Attorney’s office in L.A. Dan Saunders sent ex-private investigator Anthony Pellicano to prison for 17 years for racketeering, wiretapping and weapons charges.Saunders, now with Kasowitz Benson Torres, stars in “The New York Times Presents: The Sin Eater: The Crimes of Anthony Pellicano,” a two-part documentary on FX and Hulu.
In this June 17. 2009, file photo, former Hollywood private eye Anthony Pellicano is shown in court in Los Angeles.  (AP Photo/Nick Ut, File)Pellicano was known as a “fixer” who allegedly solved problems for big-name clients like Michael Jackson,  among many others. He shut people down through threatening, ruthless tactics.But Pellicano kept his mouth shut and refused to cooperate with prosecutors.“Would the case have been different if Pellicano had cooperated? Certainly,” Saunders said.Saunders loved working as a prosecutor. “That’s why I stayed there 14 years.” The average stay is five to seven years. But he’s had great success in the private sector.“Civil practice provides a whole new set of challenges,” he said.****Air Supply might be soft rock at its softest, but singer Russell Hitchcock was a hard-core party animal.On “The SDR Show” with Ralph Sutton, Hitchcock revealed that at 73 he’s fully tatted up with his most recent tattoo from only a month ago; his cocktail of choice in the ’70s was quaaludes, tequila, and cocaine; his post-concert routine involved at least three bottles of wine; and he only just got sober after breaking his ribs falling out of a car.Hitchcock told how Axl Rose of Guns N’ Roses asked to meet him for dinner at the famed Hollywood metal bar the Rainbow.Over dinner, Rose was all compliments and even mentioned that on an upcoming song (“Don’t Cry”) Rose might be breaking Hitchcock’s record for holding the longest note (“All Out of Love”) and asked Hitchcock if he’d mind.Hitchcock’s response: “I don’t give a f–k.”But when Hitchcock approached Rose at the Freddie Mercury tribute a few years later, Rose claimed not to know who he was.“So, I used a nasty word and walked away,” Hitchcock said.According to Sutton, “I’ve been doing this for over 20 years and I have to say Russell might be the most metal guy I’ve ever met!”****How far will the women of Bravo go for the next level in skin treatment? It seems as far as Hoboken.Sonja Morgan, of “The Real Housewives of NYC,” crosses the Hudson to go to Attain Medspa owned by Lauren Ben-Meir.Morgan has to look great while promoting her new show on Bravo “Welcome to Crappie Lake” with Luann de Lesseps.
Sonja Morgan attends the 30th Annual GLAAD Media Awards New York, May 04, 2019. (Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for GLAAD)****DJ David Guetta arrived at Joey Morrissey’s M2 in South Beach with his girlfriend Jessica Ledon during Miami Music Week.You couldn’t put a knife between the two lovers; even when photographers asked them to pose separately, they refused.Ledon stayed extra close to Guetta when the club’s scantily clad dancers surrounded the superstar DJ on stage.Guetta played his new, controversial AI song, “Emin-AI-em,” which mimics Eminem’s voice.****Manhattan comic Laura Merli just headlined at Gowanus performance space Littlefield. She told the crowd: “Before I had a dog in the city, I didn’t realize how much people throw meat on the street. I’m constantly pulling her away from pieces of chicken, ribs … stuff in chalk outlines.”Merli also said, “I once got dumped so a guy could move to Vegas to be an understudy for a clown mime. You don’t know pain until you’ve watched someone leave you — on a unicycle.” The son of the late Sir Evelyn de Rothschild is an heir of the Rothschild banking family of England. This column reported a few weeks ago that Angie was looking for an appropriate partner. Now maybe she has found him. The British explorer has been living in Venice Beach with Ukrainian actress Karina Deyko and is friends with actor Ezra Miller and Fiat heir Lapo Elkann. De Rothschild owns a clothing company called Lost Explorer, but he’s better known as a climate change activist who has hiked to both poles. He also built a catamaran, Plastiki, out of discarded plastic bottles and then sailed the boat from San Francisco to Sydney. De Rothschild, a connoisseur of beautiful women, once dated actress Diane Kruger. While their very public three-hour lunch was all philanthropy and let’s save the planet together, sources say Jolie and de Rothschild were taking measure of each other. ******* As the lead prosecutor for the U.S. Attorney’s office in L.A. Dan Saunders sent ex-private investigator Anthony Pellicano to prison for 17 years for racketeering, wiretapping and weapons charges. Saunders, now with Kasowitz Benson Torres, stars in “The New York Times Presents: The Sin Eater: The Crimes of Anthony Pellicano,” a two-part documentary on FX and Hulu. Pellicano was known as a “fixer” who allegedly solved problems for big-name clients like Michael Jackson,  among many others. He shut people down through threatening, ruthless tactics. But Pellicano kept his mouth shut and refused to cooperate with prosecutors. “Would the case have been different if Pellicano had cooperated? Certainly,” Saunders said. Saunders loved working as a prosecutor. “That’s why I stayed there 14 years.” The average stay is five to seven years. But he’s had great success in the private sector. “Civil practice provides a whole new set of challenges,” he said. **** Air Supply might be soft rock at its softest, but singer Russell Hitchcock was a hard-core party animal. On “The SDR Show” with Ralph Sutton, Hitchcock revealed that at 73 he’s fully tatted up with his most recent tattoo from only a month ago; his cocktail of choice in the ’70s was quaaludes, tequila, and cocaine; his post-concert routine involved at least three bottles of wine; and he only just got sober after breaking his ribs falling out of a car. Hitchcock told how Axl Rose of Guns N’ Roses asked to meet him for dinner at the famed Hollywood metal bar the Rainbow. Over dinner, Rose was all compliments and even mentioned that on an upcoming song (“Don’t Cry”) Rose might be breaking Hitchcock’s record for holding the longest note (“All Out of Love”) and asked Hitchcock if he’d mind. Hitchcock’s response: “I don’t give a f–k.” But when Hitchcock approached Rose at the Freddie Mercury tribute a few years later, Rose claimed not to know who he was. “So, I used a nasty word and walked away,” Hitchcock said. According to Sutton, “I’ve been doing this for over 20 years and I have to say Russell might be the most metal guy I’ve ever met!” **** How far will the women of Bravo go for the next level in skin treatment? It seems as far as Hoboken. Sonja Morgan, of “The Real Housewives of NYC,” crosses the Hudson to go to Attain Medspa owned by Lauren Ben-Meir. Morgan has to look great while promoting her new show on Bravo “Welcome to Crappie Lake” with Luann de Lesseps. **** DJ David Guetta arrived at Joey Morrissey’s M2 in South Beach with his girlfriend Jessica Ledon during Miami Music Week. You couldn’t put a knife between the two lovers; even when photographers asked them to pose separately, they refused. Ledon stayed extra close to Guetta when the club’s scantily clad dancers surrounded the superstar DJ on stage. Guetta played his new, controversial AI song, “Emin-AI-em,” which mimics Eminem’s voice. **** Manhattan comic Laura Merli just headlined at Gowanus performance space Littlefield. She told the crowd: “Before I had a dog in the city, I didn’t realize how much people throw meat on the street. I’m constantly pulling her away from pieces of chicken, ribs … stuff in chalk outlines.” Merli also said, “I once got dumped so a guy could move to Vegas to be an understudy for a clown mime. You don’t know pain until you’ve watched someone leave you — on a unicycle.” Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News