A beauty playground for beautyholics, Sephora recently introduced a new vegan skincare in their plethora of brands. The South Korean skincare brand is touted as 100% vegan, and cruelty-free, with a reef-safe (yays to ocean lovers!) sunscreen. Founded by a gutsy young female entrepreneur Hana Lee, 33, who endeavours to uphold her promise that Melixir’s products, ingredients, and packaging are as gentle to nature as on our bodies. ​ That’s not all, South Korea's top makeup celebrity artist Pony, has expressed her love for Melixir vegan lip butter. Yahoo Life Singapore chats with its South Korean CEO and founder Hana Lee on what it means for Melixir to be certified as 100% vegan, her trials and tribulations as a young female entrepreneur in the saturated beauty industry and her top Melixir recommendations for Singapore’s hot and humid weather. READ MORE: Best homeware and furniture stores in Singapore to replace Crate & Barrel Jennifer Lopez swears by this S$85 serum for 'glowy' skin – and you can buy it now Robinsons Hotel Collection Silk Pillowcase review. It's 61% off now! Get Melixir from Sephora Hana Lee: To be 100% vegan, we care about two principles. Firstly, NO animal testing, done for a long time in the beauty industry, and NO animal ingredients to be used. I got the inspiration for Melixir in 2014. Back then, I worked for a beauty tech startup in San Francisco, and a client looking for a cruelty-free cosmetic option opened my eyes to how widespread animal testing was in the industry. I decided that someone needed to create a solution, and I went on a journey to create a skincare brand that I promised would be 100% vegan and sustainable. It has been five years, and we have kept our promise. We do conduct clinical tests to ensure the efficacy of the products. We test on artificial skin and human subjects. Shouldn’t skincare be as healthy as our diet?According to CEO & founder Hana Lee, Melixir started with this simple question. ​ That’s a great question. People often underestimate young female entrepreneurs’ ambitions and achievements, so I needed to validate myself 10 times more than others. I worked closely with my team and listened to what our customers said. Eventually, this led us to focus on our initial mission for years, making us unique and relevant to our customers in their 20s and 30s. I got inspired to create Vegan Airfit Sunscreen SPF 50+ PA++++ by a friend who loves scuba diving and nature. However, the chemicals used in everyday sunscreen threaten the health of coral reefs and other marine life. My friend often goes diving but finds it hard to find sunscreens that don’t harm the ocean and coral, so he asked me to create one that is safe for the ocean. So, I made a reef-safe sunscreen powerful enough for outdoor activities with SPF 50+. My favourite is Vegan Relief Facial Moisturizer. Skin-soothing routine is something that I am deeply into to keep my skin stay healthy and hydrated. However, under the strong sunlight of Singapore, I immediately feel the heat on my face. To lower the skin temperature of the face, I love to put Vegan Relief Facial Moisturizer. The moisturizer is even better when you keep it in the fridge and put a thick layer on your face, like a sleeping mask. You will feel the surprising cooling effect overnight. Vegan Airfit Sunscreen SPF 50+ PA++++ by Melixir is perfect for Singapore weather. When I stay in Singapore, the weather is hot and humid, and this sunscreen works perfectly because it is lightweight and doesn't leave any white cast even when I sweat. In addition, it has strong sun protection with SPF 50+ PA++++. It works best for people looking for easy texture with solid sun protection. I would love to introduce the latest vegan beauty trends we started in Seoul as soon as possible. Koreans are deeply invested in natural-looking skincare that shows one's true self without masking it. In addition, we are developing high-performance serums and moisturisers made of Asian medicinal plants, so stay tuned until we bring them to Singapore! Get Melixir from Sephora Get it from Sephora Available at Sephora It comes in 12 shades Buy them from Sephora Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. A former Soviet aircraft carrier burned in a waterway near Shanghai over the weekend, the latest setback for the decommissioned warship since its conversion into a Chinese tourist attraction. Keep up to date as Arsenal look set to complete £30m swoop while Chelsea continue their new striker search "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv Paetongtarn Shinawatra, daughter of the divisive former leader Thaksin Shinawatra, became Thailand's prime minister after receiving a royal letter of endorsement Sunday, two days after she was chosen by Parliament following a court order that removed her predecessor.  Paetongtarn is the third Shinawatra to hold the job, after her billionaire father and her aunt Yingluck Shinawatra.  Both were removed from office and forced into exile in coups, although Thaksin returned to Thailand last year as Pheu Thai formed a government. The post Teo Heng Teochew Porridge: 70-year-old heritage Teochew porridge stall with lava eggs & stuffed tau pok appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Voters over 70 are backing Harris over Trump, 51 to 48 percent, Emerson College poll finds