 If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Prime Day 2023 LIVE: The 91 Best Early Deals to Shop Now People / Jaclyn Mastropasqua  It’s official! Amazon’s biggest sale event of the year is back for 2023. Amazon Prime Day will take place on Tuesday, July 11 and Wednesday, July 12, and this year, the two days of deals are shaping up to be better than ever. 
  While we’re still a few weeks out from the massive shopping event, Amazon has already dropped thousands of deals ahead of the big day, which means you can snap up steep savings at this exact moment. Right now, you can prep for summer with on-sale patio furniture and breezy dresses, along with discounted tech, like the coveted Apple AirPods and Amazon Kindles. 
  Not sure where to start? Don’t worry, we’ve made it super easy this year. We’re dropping all the best early Prime Day deals to shop as we find them in real time; this way, you’re guaranteed not to miss a thing. 
  Keep checking back throughout the day as we update this story with more deals. 
  Apple AirTag 4-Pack, $89 (Save $9) Amazon  Never lose an item again with the help of Apple AirTags, which are priced at just $23 per tag right now. AirTags have a one-tap setup that automatically connects with your iPhone or iPad, allowing you to track them through the Find My app. The replaceable battery lasts up to a year, and you can grab extras for as little as $1 per battery.
 Score Discounts on Floral, Printed, Flowy, and Breezy Blouses Amazon  Whether you’re searching for blouses to wear to the office, in your home office, or while you’re out and about this summer, Amazon’s got you covered. So many blouses are on sale, there’s almost too much to choose from. Prices are as little as $23 on customer-loved styles, some of which we’ve included below.
  Best blouses to shop right now
 Vizio 40-Inch D-Series Full HD Smart TV, $168 (Save $62) Amazon  Watch your favorite TV shows and movies in high definition on this Vizio smart TV, which comes with access to all the top streaming platforms (subscriptions required). Its IQ picture processor means faster navigation and load times, allowing you to get to your program in record time. Plus, the top-notch engine makes the gaming experience lightning-quick and more responsive.
 Score Second Generation Apple AirPods for Under $100 Amazon  Not interested in spending more than $200 on headphones? You can snag these AirPods for just under $100 — with more than 500,000 five-star ratings, they’re clearly an Amazon shopper favorite. Thanks to the charging case, the headphones offer over 24 hours of listening time, and they’re easy to set up and connect with all your Apple products.
 Amazon’s Best-Selling Cloud Slippers Are Just $24 Today Amazon  These super comfortable cloud slippers provide shock absorption and support, conforming to the outline of your feet. Shoppers can choose from a handful of colors, all of which are available in sizes 4–11.5.
 OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker, $182 (Save 9%) Amazon  Wake up every morning to a cup of coffee with the OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker. The coffee maker can brew a single serving, or you can set it to make up to eight cups at a time, which will stay hot in the double-walled carafe. It even has a handy cleaning mode.
 Give Fido a Cozy Place to Sleep with This Best-Selling Dog Bed Amazon  The Bedsure Bolster Dog Bed offers orthopedic support with its high-density egg crate foam that distributes weight evenly and relieves joint pressure. It’s waterproof and easy to care for (just remove the zippered cover and toss it in the washing machine). You can choose from a range of sizes depending on how big or small your dog is.
 East Oak Breezeway Patio Furniture Set, $260 (Save $70) Amazon  Place this modern rattan furniture set on the patio, porch, or balcony — anywhere you want to catch some rays. The weather-resistant set comes with two comfortable chairs and a matching tempered glass table, which is the perfect size to hold plates or drinks. Shoppers appreciate that its easy assembly, with one mentioning in a review that it only took 10 minutes to set up.
 Calvin Klein Modern Cotton Bralette, $28 (Save 30%) Amazon  These Calvin Klein bralettes are the epitome of comfort thanks to their soft and stretchy material, adjustable straps, and underwire-free design. Pick up multiple colors, such as plaid and blue, all of which are available in sizes S–XL, while they’re on sale. The bralettes have earned thousands of five-star ratings from Amazon shoppers, who say they’re “super comfortable” and “fit perfectly” in reviews.
 Frigidaire Silver Compact Ice Maker, $77 (Save 23% with Prime) Amazon  This popular ice maker is a must this summer, whether you’re planning to throw parties with copious piña coladas or simply trying to stay cool. The ice maker can produce up to 26 pounds of ice in just 24 hours, and you can even choose between different ice shapes. Thanks to the transparent window at the top, you can watch your ice being made in real time. 
  One thing to keep in mind: This is a Prime member-only deal, meaning you have to have a membership to access the one-sale price. Not yet a Prime member? Sign up here to unlock this deal, along with exclusive perks like Prime Video and free two-day shipping.
 Save Up to 46% on the Mzoimzo Bed Pillows Amazon  Upgrade your old, smushed pillows with this set from Amazon that’s picked up a five-star rating from more than 5,600 customers. The pillows have a breathable cover and are both super fluffy and supportive, helping to relieve neck and shoulder pain. Choose from sizes standard, queen, king, and European.
 Sensyne 10-Inch Ring Light, $25 (Save 50%) Amazon  More than 45,000 reviewers have given this ring light a five-star rating, and for at least two good reasons: There are three different color modes (cool white, warm yellow, and daylight), and it comes with an adjustable tripod stand and a wireless remote that allows you to snap photos from up to 30 feet away. 
 Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K, $25 (Save 55%) Amazon  Prime members, this deal is exclusively for you: Amazon’s most powerful streaming stick to date is outfitted with faster apps and better navigation, so you can get to your favorite content easily. You’ll be able to watch in bright 4K ultra HD and choose from countless movies, TV shows, and songs through Netflix, Prime Video, Peacock, and more (subscriptions required).
 Save $50 on the Top-Rated Beats Powerbeats Pro Wireless Earbuds Amazon  More powerful than their tiny size conveys, the Beats Powerbeats Pro Wireless Earbuds provide up to nine hours of continuous listening time. Adjustable hooks help the headphones fit comfortably on your ears and offer stability during workouts and commutes. You can also change the volume and pause, play, and skip songs directly on the earbuds.
 FeelinGirl Shapewear Bodysuit, $20 (Save 38%) Amazon  Body confidence comes from within, but a little smoothing and cinching from shapewear that shoppers say “works like magic” can help bring it out. Made from a blend of nylon and elastane, this Amazon bodysuit is super stretchy, soft, and supportive, according to reviewers. You can wear it under dresses, jeans, and skirts, so grab it while it’s on sale.
 Strut into Summer with Ray-Ban Blaze Aviator Sunglasses Amazon  Looking for a pair of sunglasses you’ll wear every day? These Ray-Ban aviator sunglasses are a universal crowd pleaser, complete with metal frames and UV-protection lens. Even better? They’re been marked down to Amazon’s lowest price in the last 30 days.
 Scoop Up Dust and Pet Dander with the Shark Wandvac Hand Vacuum Cleaner Amazon  Not every mess requires pulling out the heavy upright vacuum. That’s where this Shark hand vacuum comes into play: Its powerful, high-speed suction picks up debris, pet hair, and more, and its convenient tools help target tight spaces. You may never use that old clunker again!
  Other hand vacuums on sale today
 Rockland Vienna Hardside Luggage, 3-Piece Set, $180 (Save 40%) Amazon  Get prepped for takeoff with this three-piece luggage set that’s just $180 today. The set includes a large, a medium, and a small suitcase, the latter of which should fit in most airlines’ overhead bins. Each bag has waterproof zippers, double spinner wheels, and ergonomic handles.
  Shop more luggage sets today
 Apple 2020 MacBook Air Laptop, $800 (Save $199) Amazon  Apple computers are on sale at Amazon, and you can snap up this Air laptop for $200 less than usual. The powerful laptop provides 18 hours of battery life, super fast memory, and a bright retina display. Plus, you’ll be able to seamlessly connect it with all your other Apple devices.
 Ekouaer Swimsuit Beach Cover-Up, $26 (Save 43%) Amazon  This fashionable bathing suit cover-up provides a layer of protection from strong beach breezes and UV rays. Made from 100 percent rayon, the swimsuit cover-up has a deep V-neck, an asymmetrical hem, and cuffed sleeves. There are so many pretty colors to choose from, including light green and navy.
 Jumbo Insulated Cooler Bag, $28 (Save 22%) Amazon  Capable of fitting up to 30 cans, this extra-large cooler bag is like bringing a mini fridge to the beach. Alternatively, it can be your barbeque buddy: The insulation not only keeps ice frozen for hours, but can also keep hot food hot.
 Bedsure Cooling Pillow Cases, $16 (Save 30%) Amazon  Dealing with night sweats? Transform your sleep with these cooling pillowcases, which have been marked down to just $8 per piece. They’re made from a temperature-regulating bamboo material that wicks away moisture while you sleep. Choose from sizes ranging from standard through California king, all of which are available in more than 20 solid colors.
 Get Lit with These Mood-Setting String Lights Amazon  Transform your outdoor space into a bona fide oasis with these mood-setting string lights. Prop them over a fence, around a garden, or along the side of the house, then flip them on whenever you please. Each purchase comes with 16 shatterproof LED bulbs and 50 feet of wire, giving you plenty of glow. 
  More outdoor lights on sale today
 Dyson Hot and Cool Jet Focus Heater and Fan, $330 (Save 30%) Amazon  Stay comfortable all year long with the dual Dyson Hot and Cool Heater and Fan, which has been slashed to just $330. The device uses ceramic plates to heat up, keeping you warm during cold weather, while the amplified airflow cools you down when it’s hot. You can even choose between two settings: “focused” directs personal airflow, while “diffused” is designed to heat or cool an entire room.
 Waterpik Cordless Advanced Water Flosser, $80 (Save 20%) Amazon  This PEOPLE Tested-recommended water flosser is equipped with four tips, three pressure settings, and 45 seconds of floss time, leaving your mouth clean and plaque-free. To use the device, simply fill the port with warm water and start flossing.
 Ninja Mega Kitchen System, $160 (Save $40) Amazon  Blend, blitz, and crush to your heart’s content with the Ninja Mega Kitchen System, which is 20 percent off today. The powerful kitchen tool can tackle just about any kitchen task, whether that’s chopping vegetables, pulverizing ice, or blending berries into a smoothie. It can even fold dough — no stand mixer required.
 Running GIrl Strappy Sports Bra, $23 (Save 15%) Amazon  This nylon-spandex sports bra is super comfortable, according to hundreds of Amazon reviewers. Its sweat-wicking capabilities will actually keep you dry while you’re working out, plus the inner mesh lining is super breathable. And it’s pretty cute too, complete with criss-cross straps and a cutout in the back.
 Sellotz Inflatable Pool, $80 (Save 20%) Amazon  No pool? No problem! Just put this inflatable pool in your backyard and you’ll be swimming in no time. The pool can hold up to 312 gallons of water at a time and is designed to fit two adults (or three to five kids) at once. Plus, its BPA-free materials are thicker than comparable options, according to the brand, drastically reducing its risk of popping.
 Bose SoundLink Micro Bluetooth Speaker, $99 (Save $20) Amazon  Provide a soundtrack to every activity this summer with the Bose SoundLink Micro Bluetooth Speaker. The waterproof speaker is super small, but it’s also super powerful, producing crisp and clear sound. It even comes with a silicone strap, allowing you to attach it to a backpack, beach cooler, or even bike handlebars.
 Save Up to 78% on Stick Vacuums Amazon  Cordless stick vacuums are on sale at Amazon, including fan-favorite models from Inse, Shark, Bissell, and Dyson. Get set for effortless cleaning with these must-have vacuum cleaners while they’re heavily marked down.
  Stick vacuums on sale today
 Cool Off with This Portable Neck Fan That’s 28% Off Amazon  Staying cool doesn’t mean parking yourself in front of an air conditioner — simply place this portable fan around your neck. The fan drives powerful gusts of cold air through 78 outlets, making hot weather a bit more bearable. It has three speeds and can run for up to 16 hours on a single charge. Heads up: This discount is for Prime members only!
 Weber Spirit II 2-Burner Liquid Propane Grill, $449 (Save $100) Amazon  Grilling season is in full swing, which means you won’t want to miss out on this Weber grill while it’s $100 off. It has two burners, cast-iron grates, and a built-in thermometer, plus two side tables to hold grill tools (and your finished burgers).
  RELATED: Amazon Quietly Discounted Tons of Grilling Accessories with Hundreds of Five-Star Ratings
 Matbeby Bedding Quilted Mattress Topper, $31 (Save 56%) Amazon  Before splurging on a whole new mattress, try upgrading a lackluster bed with this top-rated topper and see if it does the trick. Its top layer is filled with a microfiber material that’s cooling and breathable, and the quilted diamond seams prevent the material from moving around overnight.
 Save Up to 40% on Levi’s Jeans Amazon  Levi’s Premium Wedgie Straight Jeans are up to 40 percent off, bringing their price down to as little as $65. The high-rise jeans are made from 100 percent cotton and finished off with a button closure. Many shoppers, as well as the brand, recommend sizing up to get the best fit.
 Lodge 10.25-Inch Cast Iron Pre-Seasoned Skillet, $20 (Save 42%) Amazon  Sear, fry, bake, and sauté in the beloved Lodge cast iron skillet, which has picked up over 53,000 perfect ratings from Amazon reviewers. The skillet is compatible with just about any surface, including in the oven, over a grill, and on induction cooktops, and with proper care, it lasts for generations.
 Best Choice Products Adjustable Gravity Chairs, $110 (Save $20) Amazon  Bring these versatile gravity chairs to the beach —  or simply post up on your lawn. The chairs smoothly recline into a zero-gravity position, keeping you comfortable while you read or chat. Sold as a pair, the chairs are even outfitted with cupholders.
 Conair Hair Dryer, $10 (Save 41%) Amazon  This powerful Conair hair dryer can hit up to 1,875 watts of power, delivering hot air that dries hair quickly. Then, seal your style in with the cool setting. Thousands of shoppers have raved about the device, with reviewers noting that it has “strong power” and is the “perfect everyday dryer.”
 Walk for Miles in These Customer-Loved New Balance Sneakers Amazon  The New Balance Women's 608 V5 Cross Trainers sneakers are constructed with leather uppers, rubber soles, and foam inserts, which come together to offer style, support, and comfort. The sneakers are available in sizes 5–12 in both regular and wide widths.
 Tons of Roomba Robot Vacuums Are Discounted Right Now Amazon  Robot vacuums can often cost an arm and a leg, but you don’t need to spend a ton of dough today. Amazon slashed prices on a slew of Roomba robot vacuums, with the cheapest going for just $179. Score robot mops, self-emptying devices, and more.
  iRobot Roomba vacuums on sale today
 Amazon  The always-popular Apple AirPods have been marked down by 20 percent, making it a perfect time to snap them up. Designed with superior noise-canceling technology and a rich audio experience, the headphones dazzlingly showcase your favorite music and podcasts. 
 Amazon  Sear, sauté, and fry with these beloved All-Clad nonstick skillets. Each purchase comes with a set of two pans, one measuring in at 8 inches and the other at 10. The skillets are outfitted with straight sides to avoid excess splatter and hold heat well, so you won’t have to worry about cold spots. 
 Amazon  Whether you’re dealing with wildfire smoke or simply need to rid your home of allergens, most people would benefit from investing in an air purifier. We like this Clorox model that can be integrated with Alexa and captures up to 99.97 percent of allergens and bacteria in its HEPA filter.Shop more air purifiers today
 Amazon  Looking to add new, well-sharpened knives to your collection? Snap up the Henckels 15-Piece Knife Set while it’s $24 off. The set is super sharp straight out of the box and complete with all the necessities, including a 4-inch paring knife, 5-inch serrated utility knife, 8-inch bread knife, and more. 
  Henckels individual knives on sale today
 Amazon  The weather is only getting hotter outside — which means you’re likely doing everything you can to stay cool inside. Rather than sweat while you sleep, opt for these cooling sheets that wick away moisture and absorb heat. Choose from plenty of colors, available in sizes full through California king.
  Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more.
 Amazon  Say adieu to cleaning the house yourself thanks to the iRobot Roomba 694 Robot Vacuum, which will do all the work for you. Its three-stage cleaning power lifts dust, dirt, and debris from both carpets and hard floors, and it’s equipped with sensors that prevent it from accidentally falling down a flight of stairs or bumping into obstacles.
 Amazon  Slip into these 100 percent textile Adidas sneakers for pure comfort, whether you’re taking long walks or heading into a workout class. The sneakers have Cloudfoam cushioning for the utmost support. Shoppers can choose from a handful of colors, available in sizes 5–11.
  This best-selling hair tool — an upgraded version of the original — still gives you two products in one: a hair dryer and hot air brush. You can style your hair with the hot air brush, creating luscious waves and curls, and now, you can also pop off the attachment and use just the dryer function.
 Amazon  Peak beach season (a.k.a. the best time of the year) is right around the corner, which means you’ll be pulling out swimsuits, towels, and coolers any minute now. If you don’t yet have one, you’ll also want to nab a heavy-duty beach umbrella while it’s on sale — this one is complete with a sand anchor so that it won’t fly away, and it’s easy to carry thanks to the strap you can sling over your shoulder.
 Amazon  Prep for comfortable summer strolls with another pair of Crocs, available now in a slew of colors and sizes. The waterproof shoes are beloved by both children and adults, and this popular style has picked up a whopping 402,000 perfect ratings at Amazon. In reviews, shoppers simply state that they’re “better than flip-flops.”
 Amazon  Designed with memory foam, breathable coils, and a cashmere top, this Casper mattress is a luxe sleeping surface — and you can save $100 on a queen size bed right now. The memory foam material takes pressure off of your muscles, back, and joints, giving you an all-around better night’s rest.  
 Amazon  Finding a place to store seasonal clothes or excess linens doesn’t have to be a pain when you have these handy storage bags. Pack them with anything from winter coats to toys, then tuck them away out of sight, like under the bed or in the back of closets. Since each bag has a window, you’ll always know what’s inside. Pro tip: Click the 50%-off coupon on the product page to access the full discount.
 Amazon  Super hot days are right on the horizon, so the time to buy flowy and breezy dresses to help you stay cool (and look cute) is now. Countless dress styles are on sale before Prime Day, whether you want minis, midis, or maxis.
  Dresses on sale today
 Amazon  Don’t wait to snap up the Apple Watch Series 8 while it’s on sale — it’s a sellout risk. Seamlessly pair the device to your iPhone to track sleep stages, respond to text messages, and even take calls.
 Amazon  You’ve probably seen the Lululemon belt bag in the wild by this point, and while it’s often sold out, you can snag a similar option from Amazon. The Ododos Mini Belt Bag is just $16 today — the lowest price it’s been in the last month — and has room to fit a wallet, keys, phone, and other small items. Plus, it comes in 28 colors.
 Amazon  Hollywood’s favorite skincare tool is on super sale at Amazon right now. The original version of the dermatologist-approved device employs red light therapy and microcurrents to help reduce the appearance of wrinkles, fine lines, dark circles, and blemishes just by waving it over your skin for a few minutes a day. Note: Prices vary by wand color.
 Amazon  When there’s a discount on Le Creuset, don’t wait to add it to your cart. We love this enameled cast iron skillet that’s ready to use straight out of the box — no seasoning required. Use it to sear slabs of meat and fry the perfect egg.
 Amazon  Forget about missing a spot with the Shark Navigator Vacuum Cleaner. The device can deep clean carpets and power across hard floors, plus it has swivel steering and a large-capacity dust cup that allows for longer cleaning sessions.
 Amazon  Amazon is overflowing with swimsuits for summer — and many are on sale right now. There are styles for everyone, including one-pieces, tankinis, sporty two-pieces, and more, with prices starting at just $21.Swimsuits on sale today
  If you thought those floor stains were unmoveable, think again. The Shark Steam Pocket Mop can easily unlatch dirt with hot, powerful steam — and without the use of chemicals. Plus, you can wash and reuse the microfiber pads, so the device is plenty sustainable. Shop more steam mops today
  Upgrade from an old manual toothbrush to an electronic device that uses 40,000 vibrations a minute to remove plaque from teeth and improve gum health. Each purchase comes with eight extra brush heads, a wireless charging case, and a travel case, so you can take it on the go. Be sure to click the on-page coupon to get the full discount.
 Amazon  Droves of Amazon shoppers are picking up the Midea Air Conditioner while it’s on sale. Choose from several settings, as well as a three-speed fan, and let the powerful air conditioner cool down a room up to 250 square feet. 
  Amazon Prime Day starts on July 11 and ends on July 12, 2023 at midnight PT. 
  What is Amazon Prime Day?Amazon Prime Day is one of the site’s biggest shopping events of the year, featuring thousands of deals over a 48-hour period. Some deals will last the entire day, while others only a handful of hours — so make sure to keep an eye on the site all day long. Prime members will be able to shop exclusive markdowns that often best Black Friday deals, along with steep deals you wouldn’t find at other stores. Along with discounts on products, including smart TVs and nonstick skillets, you’ll also find tons of deals on streaming channels and subscription services. 
  Although the majority of deals are geared toward members, all shoppers will be able to grab non-Prime deals as well. 
  How long is Prime Day?Prime Day will last a total of 48 hours over the span of two days. 
  What is on sale for Prime Day?Although we don’t know what will exactly be on sale during Prime Day, we do know that there will be discounts in every category, including home, kitchen, fashion, beauty, electronics, and furniture — just to name a few. You’ll definitely find deals on headphones, vacuum cleaners, kitchen appliances, patio furniture, summer fashion, and more, and we estimate that discounts will be up to 70 percent off.   
  How do I find the best deals for Prime Day?Amazon’s deals hub will be constantly updated with discounts throughout the two-day sale, but make sure to check out the PEOPLE Shopping team’s early deals coverage, where you’ll find all the on-sale products that are actually worth your time.
  Plus, while everyone will be able to shop most Prime Day deals, Prime members have the exclusive benefit of two-day shipping. If you have yet to become a member, you can always go for a 30-day trial subscription, which not only unlocks free shipping, but also gives you access to Prime Video, exclusive Prime Day deals, and more perks. 
  Are there Prime Day compete sales?Yes! Historically, other major retailers have offered competing deals and sales around the same time as Prime Day in July. Expect to see big markdowns at Best Buy, Target, Nordstrom, Walmart, and more. Like Prime Day, these sales typically include popular kitchen appliances, TVs, mattresses, summer fashion, outdoor furniture, vacuums, and other big-ticket items.
