 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Breathe a sigh of relief with our best-in-category picks for at-home air purifiers. Samson McDougall is a journalist, copywriter, editor and science graduate. Samson specializes in making the complex simple, using the English language to democratize knowledge through highly effective, accessible communication.  In This Article Health / Henry Wortock  While most of us don’t even think about it, if you live with allergies or asthma or with someone who does, you understand the importance of air quality. Did you know the air can be significantly more polluted inside our your home than the outside world? The good news is that it's easy to make your home allergy-friendly thanks to all the plug-and-play air purifiers on the market. 
  As our expert consultant and air-quality specialist, Dr. Paula Olsiewski, notes, air purifiers with HEPA filters remove particles that can trigger or exacerbate symptoms of asthma or allergies. We all can benefit from using air purifiers at home because they reduce the particulate matter in the air, diminish routine exposure to airborne disease, and lower risks of respiratory conditions, such as asthma.
  In the Health lab, we tested dozens of air purifiers for different allergy concerns. We evaluated them based on setup, design, noise level, feature, value, and overall experience. We also had an Allergist from our Medical Expert Board review this article for medical and scientific accuracy. 
  To remove potentially harmful contaminants, air purifiers suck dirty air in through a filtration system, and blow cleaner air back into the room. Among the mountains of options, you’ll find all kinds of jargon and unverifiable claims. So, to cut through that noise, we’re going to break down four key terms here to help you know what to look for (and to help you navigate this article).
  Super effective at improving air quality during our 30-minute test, and with a super low annual running/maintenance cost of around $80, the Blueair Blue Pure Max 411i rated as our top pick across the board. Its wireless connectivity is a nice touch—allowing remote adjustments and filter usage updates. We especially loved that its night setting was quiet enough to place in the bedroom corner for air filtration during sleep.
  On the lowest setting, we recorded excellent PM2.5 reductions of 84% and TVOC reductions of 81%. And on high, we saw even higher PM2.5 and TVOC reductions—well above the median when measured against the other models we tested. Even though the device did a great job of reducing odors and scored highly for small particle removal, it failed to visibly remove much of the heavy particulate matter, such as pet hair, dirt, or flour. But then, neither did the other devices we tried in our in-house test. Overall, we’d recommend this purifier as a great pick for filtration.
  The sensitive touch display takes a bit of trial and error to get used to.
 Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock  The Cuckoo 3-in-1 True HEPA Air Purifier’s simple setup and filter insertion had us up and running with little fuss. The intuitive interface and color-coded air-quality reader made adjustments easy. And on the two lower settings, the noise levels were not distracting.
  While we noticed a marked improvement in air quality during the 30-minute test on the lowest setting, on the high (turbo) setting the device failed to reduce odors adequately and lacked the power required to pick up pet hair. The reduced high-setting efficacy for the low setting delivered an 82% reduction in PM2.5 and a 92% reduction in TVOC; compared to -58% PM2.5 and -57% TVOC while on turbo. 
  This may not be the best option for large spaces, but 30-minute particulate reductions of over 50% in a 177 sq ft room are still very good. So, if you’re after a budget bedroom purifier, you get great bang for your buck with the Cuckoo 3-in-1 when coupling its small-room performance with its low price point and annual running/maintenance costs of around $100.
  On the highest setting, this purifier is noisy and its performance was less impressive.
  For a mid-price device, the Bionaire True HEPA 360° Air Purifier brings together a few more features than most. The three speeds plus a 4, 8 and 12-hour timer, a night light, night mode, ionizer, and filter replacement indicator give you plenty of functionality for the $180 cost. Despite a bit of initial fiddling with the buttons, the easy-to-use interface and filter replacement systems led us to score this purifier our top pick for ease of use.
  Even on the highest setting, noise was not an issue (closer to ambient white noise than anything irritating). Its annual maintenance costs of under $100 fall in the lower realms of the devices we tested. Low-setting PM2.5 reductions of 78% and TVOC reductions of 81% were impressive. As were the high-setting results—well above the median when measured against all models we tested. While we didn’t get the reduction of odors we experienced with higher-end models,  for small-particle filtration, the air-quality numbers don’t lie. And this purifier more than measured up to our testing. 
  Initially, the buttons are slightly difficult to see.
 Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock  Scoring highly in terms of effectiveness, ease of use and maintenance, and value, we found a lot to like about the Clorox Large Room Air Purifier. The four settings plus indicator light were easy to use and read. The once-annual filter change is a breeze. Whether on low or high settings, we found the cylindrical three-stage filter did a great job of filtering air from every corner. All in all, we’d highly recommend this product for larger spaces like living rooms.
  The noise level on the highest setting is slightly louder than other devices we tried.
 Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock  The clean lines and effortless functionality of the LG PuriCare™ 360 Single Filter Air Purifier set it apart straight out of the box. With dual remote or on-device button controls, you can adjust speeds, set sleep timers, fire up the four-speed booster, and toggle between modes wherever you are. Or you can leave it in smart mode to let the device automatically control the fan speed, booster, and oscillating features. The easy-to-read light-up sensors indicate odor levels along with PM concentration and size. Its eight speeds let you find the sweet spot between efficacy and noise for day or nighttime use.
  We were impressed by the overall power and sheer air throughput (in booster mode, it felt like an oscillating fan, circulating air and cooling the room). But even though we recorded (80%+) PM2.5 reduction on low and high settings, on its highest setting this model scored below average in terms of removing TVOC (67%) when compared to other models we tested. That said, a reduction of 50% or more is a great result in 30 minutes. So, if you’re after a purifier that deals with large volumes of air in a short period of time (and looks good while doing it), we recommend the LG PuriCare™ 360 as definitely worth a demo.
  It didn’t score as highly in TVOC reduction as other models we tried.
  The simple four-speed functionality and low noise made this Shark Air Purifier easy to use. The level of odor was reduced during testing. The handy auto mode that adjusts filtration speed to air quality made it easy to maximize energy efficiency—which is good, given the relatively high cost of replacement filters ($70).
  This purifier scored well in reducing PM2.5 and TVOC on its low setting (80%+ for both). While on the higher setting we saw a large drop in efficacy in removing small particles—among the lowest totals across the models we tested, though still a 38% reduction in 30 minutes. Still, if you’re most likely to keep your purifier running on low—or better still, let the auto settings do their econo thing—this is one to keep in mind for smaller spaces.
  The 30-minute test on the highest setting produced lower-than-average small particle filtration results (when measured against the other models we tested).
  From the clean LCD interface to auto light sensors to set fan speeds, wireless connection, air-quality sensors, a negative ion generator, and super quiet five-speed fan—this Rabbit Air A3 Ultra Quiet Air Purifier certainly packs a lot of features into its low-profile wall-mountable design. And the robust customizable five-layer filter—including a filter for large particles and activated charcoal and BioGS HEPA filters—is impressive.
  During testing, we found that while this air purifier proved so-so regarding odor and particulate haze reduction, it removed small particles extremely well. On the low setting, we saw reductions in PM2.5 and TVOC of around 88% and 81%. And in the highest (and still very quiet) setting, we saw reductions of 72% and 83%. If If the latest tech, connectivity, and good looks are your thing, this device could be worth the investment.
  All the features in the world only provided a slight performance improvement over less expensive models we tested.
 Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Henry Wortock Health / Henry Wortock  Easy to set up and with wipeable filters for multiple uses, the Kenmore 1500e Air Purifier with SilentClean™ HEPA Technology impressed from the get-go. And though the display panel was hard to spot at first, once located, it’s so intuitive to use it even remembers your last preferred setting after you’ve powered off. The thing we loved most was that the “SilentClean™” technology lived up to its promise, with this device proving to be the quietest of all models we tested.
  Although this purifier performed well in odor reduction on both low and high settings—on par with all the other purifiers we tried—it didn’t capture larger particles like pet hair. Its performance in reducing PM2.5 was well below the median in both settings, but we believe this quiet achiever is worthy of consideration.
 Health / Henry Wortock Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Dera Burreson Health / Henry Wortock  We conducted our lab tests in three rooms in the Health Lab, ranging between 177 and 728 sq ft. Once familiar with each air purifier—including manufacturer specifications—our editors inserted factory filters and ran a simple noise test, measuring decibel levels at two and eight feet from the device on its lowest, medium, and highest settings.
  Our editors then placed their devices two feet from the wall, with various measurement points marked on the floor in front of and adjacent to the air purifier. (As shown below.)
  To determine the best air purifiers for allergies, we first spoke with some experts. Prior to testing, we interviewed both Dr Qamar and Melanie Carver to gain insights to inform our test methodology. Ms Carver also reviewed our test method prior to beginning. We also consulted with:
  The three conference rooms we used for testing each air purifier varied in size, between 177 and 728 sq ft. This allowed us to match the manufacturer CADR ratings with either a small, medium or large room in order to check each device’s efficacy at improving air quality in the room size suggested on the box.  
  Every expert we consulted agreed that High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters are a must when choosing an air purifier for allergies. These filters are the US standard and are able to filter 99.97% of particles 0.3 microns in diameter out of the air—meaning they can eliminate dust, allergens, and dander. Melanie Carver notes that activated carbon filters (also present in all of the models we tested) are useful for removing odors and TVOC.
  We measured noise levels using a decibel meter at two and eight feet from each device while running on low, medium, and high settings. The range of noise levels we recorded was between 40 and 66 decibels. As a rule of thumb, general conversation registers around the top of this range. It’s important to note many manufacturers claim readings far lower than those we recorded. This will be due to variations in the test methodology, so we recommend using our noise levels listed above as a sense check for comparisons between devices only.
  When purchasing an air purifier for allergies, one of the key specifications to look for is the Clean Air Delivery Rate (CADR). This specifies how quickly an air purifier is able to remove contaminants, such as dust, pollen, and smoke, from the air in a room. As Dr Olsiewski notes, it’s important that the air purifier has a CADR that matches the size of the room you intend to use it in. Most air purifiers have the CADR listed on the specification sheet or box.
  We also tested these air purifiers, but they didn't make any of our top categories:
  Dr Olsiewski notes that good air purifiers can clean the air in a room, reducing the symptoms of asthma or allergies in as little as 15 minutes. Throughout testing, we recorded reductions of PM2.5 and TVOC in the realms of 60–90% during our 30-minute tests. As a rule of thumb, look at the Clean Air Delivery Rate (CADR) of a device to ascertain the levels of allergens such as dust, pollen, and smoke it can remove from a space during a fixed period of time. As Dr Qamar notes, the CADR of your purifier should be equal to at least two-thirds of the room’s area in square feet.
  Short answer: always look at the manufacturer’s recommendations. It’s worth considering the cost of replacement filters (up to $129 in the models we tested) when choosing the right purifier for you. Some devices even have cleanable filters for multiple uses. 
  All the experts we spoke to agreed that, as the places we spend most of our time, bedrooms are the best place for air purifiers for allergies. This makes noise levels a key consideration, especially if you’ll be using an air purifier while you sleep. Dr Olsiewski also suggests kitchens as a great place for air purification, as cooking produces a lot of particulate matter that can impact the air quality of your home.
  Samson McDougall is a journalist, copywriter, editor, and biology graduate. His work encompasses everything from web copy for science museums to sexual health articles for universities, info sheets for first-in-category pharmaceuticals to brand messaging for wearable touch therapy by neuroscientists. Samson is a walker, hiker, surfer, and all-round nature lover. He is allergic to dogs and lives with a family member experiencing a severe dust mite allergy.
 US EPA O. The inside story: a guide to indoor air quality.