Sample announcement strip lore ipsum dolor sit met. CTA HERE Copyright © 2024 | MOMENTUM MEDIA Sample announcement strip lore ipsum dolor sit met. CTA HERE The venture aims to temper the surging cost of both business and personal travel. SHARE Share this article on: 
 Local payment start-up Airwallex has partnered with travel firm Expedia to offer customers discounts when travelling overseas. 
 Head of North America strategic partnerships at Airwallex Jessica Chiu said as global business and personal travel regained momentum, the collaboration with Expedia would deliver a 10 per cent discount on hotel stays when booking on the platform. 
 “We know the cost pressures many companies are facing in their budgets but we also understand how important work travel can be to building new relationships and growing a business,” said Ms Chiu. 
 “Whether it’s meeting new business prospects, attending a conference or an internal team gathering, we recognise face-to-face engagements help build better connections.” 
 “With so many business travellers looking to book trips amid rising costs and inflation, this partnership with Expedia makes travel more affordable for all Airwallex customers around the world.” 
 The partnership comes as part of Airwallex’s mission to enable modern businesses to grow and operate outside of borders and restrictions through its straightforward foreign currency exchange. 
 Vice-president of retail partnerships at Expedia Group Clayton Nelson said he is excited to introduce Airwallex’s users to the discounts and promotions his group offered. 
 “We are delighted to be partnering with Airwallex to offer their members a way to access discounts across our depth and breadth of global travel supply on our sites,” said Mr Nelson. 
 “We’re always looking for ways to connect our partners with travellers via our industry-leading affiliate technology.”
 Expedia’s Traveller Value Index 2023 revealed one in three people were planning business travel in the coming year following the removal of COVID-19 restrictions and Airwallex said it had been working on ways to support firms as they grow across borders. 
 Founded in 2015 in Melbourne, Airwallex has grown to 1,200 staff across 19 international offices. 
  
   AUTHOR Josh Needs is a journalist at Accountants Daily and SMSF Adviser, which are the leading sources of news, strategy, and educational content for professionals in the accounting and SMSF sectors. Josh studied journalism at the University of NSW and previously wrote news, feature articles and video reviews for Unsealed 4x4, a specialist offroad motoring website. Since joining the Momentum Media Team in 2022, Josh has written for Accountants Daily and SMSF Adviser. You can email Josh on: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. 
									Comments will undergo moderation before they get published.							 Receive breaking news directly to your inbox each day. Recognising the rising stars in the accounting industryThe inaugural Accountants Daily Rising Stars will bring the... Get breaking news