LONDON and NEW YORK, Aug. 31, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Airwallex, a leading global payments and financial platform for modern businesses, today announced its partnership with Public, a U.S.-based multi-asset investing platform, to minimise conversion costs for UK investors when purchasing U.S.-based equities on the Public app. The news comes on the heels of Public's entry into the UK, the company's first expansion outside of the United States. With this launch, UK members can create a portfolio with over 5,000 U.S.-listed equities, benefit from low FX fees, and zero commission trading during U.S. stock market hours, all while accessing Public's deep data and insights. Airwallex's financial infrastructure and global payment capabilities create a seamless investment journey for Public's customer base. Through Airwallex's API and developer toolkit, Public is able to create a frictionless experience for UK investors when they convert their GBP into USD in order to invest in U.S. stocks, providing a competitive edge for Public as it continues to grow its UK user base. Airwallex's integration has made it easier for UK members to access the US markets. Ryan O'Holleran, Head of Enterprise Sales, EMEA at Airwallex, commented, "Access to a global investing platform levels the playing field for retail investors, and Airwallex's financial operating infrastructure enables businesses like Public to operate on a global scale. We're excited to be powering Public's UK app and further break down barriers for UK investors to access the U.S. market." Speaking about this partnership, Dann Bibas, GM of International at Public, said, "Partnering with Airwallex has allowed Public to take the first step toward growing from a U.S.-based-investment platform to a global one, aligning with our mission of making public markets work for all people. Looking ahead, we're confident that Airwallex's suite of products across cross-border payments and FX will enable Public to support more investors in more places for a long time to come." NOTES TO MEDIA For further information If you have any questions or would like to request further information, please contact Stephanie Kendall, Manager, Corporate Affairs, EMEA, Airwallex at stephanie.kendall@airwallex.com or Rachel Livingston, Communications, Director, Public.com at rachel.livingston@public.com.  About AirwallexAirwallex is a leading global financial platform for modern businesses, offering trusted solutions to manage everything from payments, treasury, and spend management to embedded finance. With our proprietary infrastructure, Airwallex takes the friction out of global payments and financial operations, empowering businesses of all sizes to unlock new opportunities and grow beyond borders. Proudly founded in Melbourne, Airwallex supports over 100,000 businesses globally and is trusted by brands such as Brex, Rippling, Navan, Qantas, SHEIN and many more. For more information, visit http://www.airwallex.com. Airwallex (UK) Limited (Company No. 10103420) is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (firm reference number 900876). About PublicPublic is an investing platform that allows everyone to invest in stocks, treasuries, ETFs, crypto, and alternative assets, like fine art and collectibles-all in one place. We help people be better investors with access to custom company metrics, live shows about the markets, and insights from a community of millions of investors, creators, and analysts. Learn more at www.public.com. * For a detailed list of fees you may pay, please see our Fee Schedule. This content is not investment advice. When you invest, your capital is at risk. The value of your investments may go up or down. The past performance of a security or financial product does not guarantee future results or returns. There is always the potential of losing money when you invest in securities or other financial products. Investors should consider their investment objectives and risks carefully before investing. 'Public' is a trading name of Public Investing UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 13760183 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Public Holdings, Inc. Registered office at C/O Browne Jacobson LLP 6 Bevis Marks, Bury Court, London, United Kingdom, EC3A 7BA. Public Investing UK Limited (FRN: 985994) is an appointed representative of Khepri Advisors Limited (FRN: 692447) which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Brokerage services for US-listed, registered securities are offered by Open to the Public Investing, Inc., member FINRA & SIPC. Brokerage services for alternative assets are offered by Dalmore Group, LLC, member FINRA & SIPC. Cryptocurrency trading services are offered by Bakkt Crypto Solutions LLC (NMLS ID 1828849), which is licensed to engage in virtual currency business activity by the NYSDFS. Brokerage services for U.S. Treasuries are offered by Jiko Securities, Inc., member FINRA & SIPC. Banking services are offered by Jiko Bank, a division of Mid-Central National Bank. Securities investments: Not FDIC Insured; No Bank Guarantee; May Lose Value. See public.com/disclosures for more information. Photo - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2198103/Airwallex_and_Public.jpg  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/airwallex-and-public-partner-to-minimise-fx-costs-for-uk-investors-purchasing-us-based-equities-301914087.html