News and resources on payments systems, innovations and initiatives worldwide. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Airwallex, a leading global payments and financial platform for modern businesses, today announced its partnership with Public, a U.S.-based multi-asset investing platform, to minimise conversion costs for UK investors when purchasing U.S.-based equities on the Public app. 
31 August 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The news comes on the heels of Public’s entry into the UK, the company’s first expansion outside of the United States. With this launch, UK members can create a portfolio with over 5,000 U.S.-listed equities, benefit from low FX fees, and zero commission trading during U.S. stock market hours, all while accessing Public’s deep data and insights.  Airwallex’s financial infrastructure and global payment capabilities create a seamless investment journey for Public’s customer base. Through Airwallex's API and developer toolkit, Public is able to create a frictionless experience for UK investors when they convert their GBP into USD in order to invest in U.S. stocks, providing a competitive edge for Public as it continues to grow its UK user base. Airwallex’s integration has made it easier for UK members to access the US markets.  Ryan O’Holleran, Head of Enterprise Sales, EMEA at Airwallex, commented, “Access to a global investing platform levels the playing field for retail investors, and Airwallex’s financial operating infrastructure enables businesses like Public to operate on a global scale. We’re excited to be powering Public’s UK app and further break down barriers for UK investors to access the U.S. market.” Speaking about this partnership, Dann Bibas, GM of International at Public, said, “Partnering with Airwallex has allowed Public to take the first step toward growing from a U.S.-based-investment platform to a global one, aligning with our mission of making public markets work for all people. Looking ahead, we’re confident that Airwallex’s suite of products across cross-border payments and FX will enable Public to support more investors in more places for a long time to come.” Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre