Login Strong, independent women. Updated on December 21, 7:30 p.m. (GMT+8): Improved relevancy. Girls don’t want boyfriends. Girls want Jujutsu Kaisen’s Maki Zenin. J-pop star Akase Akari seems to have a major crush on the Jujutsu Kaisen 0 movie protagonist, as seen in her Maki Zenin cosplay. The My Dress Up Darling singer is known for her adorable anime and video game cosplays. This time around, she dresses up as the cool, badass supporting character from the series. Akari portrayed the green-haired anime character dressed in Maki’s second-year Tokyo Jujutsu High uniform. She also brought the character’s naginata (traditional Japanese halberd) polearm weapon to fight cursed spirits. Together with the help of her photographer, Okada P, Akari relived the events of the Kyoto Goodwill Event Arc by taking a photo near a river. During this arc, Tokyo and Kyoto Jujutsu High students faced each other in a series of jujutsu challenges. Despite not having the ability to see curses, Maki remains to be a powerful jujutsu sorcerer with her insane physical strength and weapon mastery. She is dubbed the best cursed tool user at Tokyo Jujutsu High for being able to wield a wide array of weapons. Maki is good friends with Toge Inumaki, Panda, and JJK0 protagonist Yuta Okkotsu. Aside from Maki, Akari has also cosplayed other anime characters such as Chainsaw Man’s Makima, Shikimori’s Not Just A Cutie’s Shikimori, Cardcaptor Sakura’s Sakura, Spy x Family’s Yor, and Kaguya-sama: Love is War’s Kaguya. The singer rose to fame after performing “Koi no Yukue”, the ending song of the My Dress Up Darling anime. She captured the hearts of many weeaboos after cosplaying as the series’ protagonist, Marin Kitagawa, in the song’s official music video. Fans can follow Akase on her Twitter (@akase_official) and Instagram (@akaseakari_official) accounts to get updated on her latest song releases and cosplays. Just a heads up, some of the links on ONE Esports are affiliate links. This means if you click on them and make a purchase, we may earn a small commission at no additional cost to you. It’s a way for us to keep the site running and provide you with valuable content. Thanks for your support! READ MORE: Best quotes from JJK 0 that speak directly to your heart Sign up for a free ONE Esports account and start engaging with other fans! You'll also receive a monthly newsletter and other goodies!