Apr. 12—GREENUP — Greenup County Judge-Executive Bobby Hall announced the Greenup County portion of the old AK Steel Ashland Works property is now listed with a realtor. It currently belongs to Cleveland-Cliffs. "I didn't know if I would ever live long enough to see that happen, but it's now listed with a broker," Hall said. "They are working diligently to get that piece of land marketed." Hall said a section in Boyd County is not EPA-approved yet, but all of the property situated in Greenup County "as of today, has been approved by the EPA." Hall highlighted a few other exciting developments for the county, including King's Daughters Medical Center President and CEO Sara Marks writing a letter of support in helping with the county's broadband internet application. He said the county has a verbal contract with a "very large corporation in Greenup County," but he couldn't divulge more details on Tuesday. "I will make sure everybody knows everything we're doing once papers are signed," Hall said. Hall also announced the construction of the new farmers market has been approved. "The engineering has been completed, and there should be dirt moving within the next week or two," Hall said. "This will be another asset to our county." Since Jan. 1, the county has utilized the services of 14 county-based contractors, according to Hall. Hall said the county is working to get water to 25 homes on Rock Gate Road, and he and the commissioners are still working on the best solution to get sewer to Lloyd. The newly formed Greenup County Economic Development Authority was set to meet on Wednesday. Hall announced board members of that group (terms through June 30, 2027). They are the following: Aaron Thompson, Shawn Moore, Kristie Patterson, Kevin Fraley, Dustin Burchett, Drew King, Craig Hunt, Matthew Brent, Jeff Dupuy, Keith Wellman, Jacob Sizemore, Kevin Howard, Andy Zabrieszack, Rick Loperfido, James Stevens, Greg Logan, Joe Virgin, Earnie Duty and Joe Dillow. Other notable items from Tuesday's fiscal court meeting: —Darren Gifford, of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, talked about the Rural Secondary Program, and said Greenup County will get $244,000 to use on county projects. KYTC will receive $261,000 to spend on state highway projects. Gifford said KYTC proposed to pave Ky. 503 (Naples Road) from the Boyd-Greenup line to Zabrieszack Lane in Argillite. —Dustin Burchett, city administrator for Raceland, recognized first responders for their work on the scene of a fatal accident that occurred on Sunday evening at the intersection of Pond Run Road and U.S. 23 in Raceland. A 15-year-old female died after a tractor trailer and mini-van collided. Seven others in a mini-van survived. The driver of the tractor trailer was treated and released. Burchett said he truly believed first responders saved some lives that day. Commissioner Earnie Duty II led a prayer for family and friends of the young woman who passed away. —Duty said the county is one step away — one signature, according to Hall — on starting the dredging at the Greenup County boat ramp. —Hall proclaimed April 22 "Kite Day" in Greenup County. An event will take place at McKell Middle that day. —Greenup County Public Safety Director Buford Hurley reminded the court that this week is National Public Safety Telecommunications Week. —Due to primary election preparations, the next meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 9, at 9:30 a.m. on the third floor of the courthouse in Judge Jeff Preston's court. (606) 326-2664 — asnyder@dailyindependent.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.