Get businessline apps on Connect with us TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS Connect With Us Get BusinessLine apps on By KR Srivats 
Comments
 
READ LATER
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited (formerly Max Bupa Health Insurance Company), a standalone health insurer, has signed a corporate agency agreement with Sundaram Finance Limited, a diversified financial services group.  Through this tie-up, Niva Bupa’s select range of indemnity plans would be offered to Sundaram Finance’s growing customers. Sundaram Finance will use its network of over 640 branches across the country to reach out to customers as part of this partnership. Krishnan Ramachandran, MD & CEO, Niva Bupa Health Insurance said, “We are elated to enter into this partnership with one of the most trustworthy and reliable financial institutions in the country. We are confident that our thoughtfully designed health insurance products will be backed by superior customer experience, enabling us to meet the healthcare needs of Sundaram Finance’s vast customer segment and penetrate further into the emerging markets across the country.” Rajiv Lochan, MD, Sundaram Finance Limited said, “We are pleased to be associated with Niva Bupa Health Insurance, and offer their best-selling and most popular products to our valuable customers.” Focus on higher profits, digitisation, insurers hope for better health infra to support growth Lochan added, “Health Insurance is no more a choice, but a necessity and we believe that by offering a range of comprehensive products which are designed to fulfil varying customer needs, we can provide innovative and tailor-made solutions to our customers.” Some of the retail products being offered by Sundaram Finance to its customers include ReAssure — Niva Bupa’s highest-selling comprehensive family floater plan; Senior First — a tailor-made plan for Senior Citizens; and Health Recharge — a Super Top Up plan.  
Comments
 BACK TO TOP Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines  for posting your comments.  We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber