Home > Gaming News Wall World, developer and publisher Alawar Premium’s roguelite indie about vertical mining and defending a robospider, has released a new teaser for the Wall World: Deep Threat DLC. It’s expected to roll out this summer, but a release date has not been confirmed. Wall World is available now on PC. According to a new tweet from Alawar Premium’s feed, the DLC will include a story expansion, 9 new biomes, more technologies, exciting bosses and more.  Today’s teaser sets up the central conflict that will propel the story forward, as a stranger retaliates over crossing the rift. However, the teaser is also brief and vague, in order to maintain a sense of mystery.  This may be disappointing for some, but it’s a smart move, since Wall World’s lore has played a large role in its success. Wall World’s genres are very busy, and require more than a vertical gimmick to stand out. Continuing the story will be a big hook for players to remain invested.  The sleek design of the new enemy looks fantastic, creating an air of authority and legitimate danger. It hints at some very fun bosses ahead. It should also give fans an idea of what other kinds of biomes might exist in Wall World’s DLC. The Steam page mentions that players will explore a “remote section of the Wall”, and that new enemies will go beyond Zyrex types. Wall World only just launched in April, so the DLC is a welcome surprise. The devs’ world feels lived-in and creative, while the rhythmic gameplay loop offers just enough twists on familiar mechanics. It’ll be neat to see how that expands, and if the content will keep this kind of pace. You can read our full review of Wall World, and more about other upcoming DLCs by checking out the rest of our news section. Anthony Fertino is a novelist and lifelong gamer, born and raised in Southern California. He's been a content writer for over 10 years, and studied film at SMC for 4 years. When he isn't playing shooters, RPGs, or indies, he's reading SFF novels and trying the latest tabletop games. All comments go through a moderation process, and should be approved in a timely manner. To see why your comment might not have been approved, check out our Comment Rules page! This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Comment Nickname (Required)  Email (Required)   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ