
                  The Stars captain received a two-game suspension for the play, encourages team to focus on one game at a time
                 The Stars' challenge to create history by becoming the first team ever to come back from an 0-3 deficit in the conference finals received an extra hurdle on Wednesday, as captain Jamie Benn was suspended for two games by the NHL for a cross-checking penalty in Game 3. Benn drove his stick into the neck of Vegas forward Mark Stone and received a game misconduct penalty just 1:52 into the game. Benn missed the remainder of that contest and Dallas went on to lose 4-0. The league's Department of Player Safety announced the two-game suspension on Wednesday afternoon. "The bottom line is they are going to drop the puck tomorrow at 7, and we've got to win a game," Stars coach Pete DeBoer said in the morning. DeBoer on Focusing on the Next Game In the history of the NHL, 204 teams have been down 3-0 in a series and only four have come back to win. It has never happened in the conference finals with a berth in the Stanley Cup Final on the line. Dallas players say they don't want to focus on the task of winning four straight and would rather concentrate on just winning Game 4 to get things started. "I think the big thing is starting with tomorrow," said forward Jason Robertson. "We've had the response all year, so tomorrow won't be any different." Robertson on the Inconsistency this Postseason In addition to Benn being out, forward Evgenii Dadonov is listed as "doubtful" with a lower body injury he sustained in Game 3. That means the Stars could bring in both Luke Glendening and Fredrik Olofsson, who were healthy scratches last game. DeBoer said Jake Oettinger will get the start in net, despite being pulled in Game 3. Oettinger has played more games than any of the four goalies remaining in the playoffs and has been pulled in three of the past eight games. DeBoer was asked if he thinks fatigue could be affecting the performance of the 24-year-old. "I know talking to him he says he feels great, doesn't feel any energy issues and those are conversations we've had every day," DeBoer said. "We've limited his practice time, things like that." Oettinger said he's excited about the opportunity to get back in. "You put your whole season into this, and you want to play your best in these moments," Oettinger said. "When you can't do that for your team and your fans, that's one of the worst feelings in the world. It's part of the position. People say the ups and downs, these are the downs." Oettinger on the emotions of Game 3 The entire experience on Tuesday was a major downer. In addition to Benn's suspension, Max Domi was fined $5,000 for a slashing penalty and Stars President Brad Alberts issued an apology for fan behavior of throwing debris on the ice and for forcing the second period to end early as a result. It was a tough night. Benn didn't talk after the game but answered questions on Wednesday morning about the penalty. "Just an unfortunate play," he said. "I think I just need to be more responsible with my body and my stick . . . put my team in a tough situation. It was pretty unfortunate." Jamie Benn on the Emotions of Last Night Benn said he might have been swept up in the emotion of the moment. Vegas had just scored 71 seconds into the game, and then Benn came out for his first shift. "My first shift of a game on home ice, when you're pretty jacked up and down 1-0, so you want to try to get your team going," Benn said. "Emotions are high and, you know, it was just an unfortunate play." Now, he will have to sit two games because of the mistake. "We just have to win one game," Benn said in the morning before he was aware of the suspension. "Focus on Game 4 and doing whatever it takes to win that game." Robertson said there is motivation for the team to keep winning in hopes of getting Benn back on the ice. Robertson said when Joe Pavelski was knocked out in Game 1 vs. Minnesota, the entire team talked about winning games so that Pavelski could get back on the ice. "It was similar to the first series when Pavs got hurt," Robertson said. "We didn't know how long he would be out, and we wanted to keep playing in order for his season not to end. So, I'm sure there is extra motivation for all of the guys. He is our leader on the team, so we want to be able to get him back on the ice." DeBoer said the team is going to find positive motivation where it can. "I think everybody wants to see Jamie Benn play again," DeBoer said. "I think we all want to make sure his season doesn't end on a note like that, and I think guys are going to work their [tails] off to make sure that they give him a chance to play again." This story was not subject to the approval of the National Hockey League or Dallas Stars Hockey Club. Video: DeBoer on Focusing on the Next Game is a Senior Staff Writer for DallasStars.com and has covered the Stars since 1994. Follow him on Twitter @MikeHeika