Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » Lions get Springbok and Blitzbok boost for Challenge Cup showdown in Paris Ivan van Rooyen names Jaco Kriel, Willem Alberts and Andries Coetzee and Blitzbok JC Pretorius in Lions team for Challenge Cup game in Paris.   Ivan van Rooyen has selected Springboks Jaco Kriel, Willem Alberts and Andries Coetzee and Blitzbok JC Pretorius in the Lions match 23 for their game Stade Francais in Paris on Saturday.  The Lions continue their journey in the European Challenge Cup when they take on the French outfit at the Stade Jean Bouin stadium in Paris. Undefeated in the competition, the team from Ellis Park will look to improve their recent run of results in the United Rugby Championship with a positive outcome against the Pink Army. ALSO READ: Challenge Cup — Lions ready to roar again Sevens recruit Pretorius is set to get his first taste of 15-man rugby for his franchise after being named on the Lions bench alongside former Paarl Boys pupil Rhynardt Rijnsburger, who is also in line to make his debut.  In the starting lineup, Kriel makes his return to the team at openside flank. Alberts is brought into the team as the No 4 lock ahead of Ruan Venter. In an injury-enforced changed, Gianni Lombard cracks the nod at flyhalf in absence of Jordan Hendrikse, who suffered an ankle niggle against Munster last week. Andries Coetzee slots in at fullback with coach Van Rooyen opting to shift Quan Horn to the wing where he replaces Stean Pienaar. Kick-off for this European Challenge Cup clash is at 15:00 SA time. ALSO READ: Stade Francais vs Lions — Challenge Cup stats, facts and key history Lions — 15 Andries Coetzee, 14 Quan Horn, 13 Henco van Wyk, 12 Marius Louw (captain), 11 Edwill van der Merwe, 10 Gianni Lombard, 9 Morné van den Berg, 8 Emmanuel Tshituka, 7 Emile van Heerden, 6 Jaco Kriel, 5 Darrien Landsberg, 4 Willem Alberts, 3 Asenathi Ntlabakanye, 2 PJ Botha, 1 JP Smith.Subs: 16 Michael van Vuuren, 17 Rhynardt Rijnsburger, 18 Ruan Smith, 19 Ruhan Straeulis 20 Sibusiso Sangweni, 21 JC Pretorius, 22 Andre Warner, 23 Manuel Rass. Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! The Daily Lotto is a lottery game that guarantees a jackpot every day. Are you South Africa’s next big winner? Good luck! Orlando Pirates legend Benedict Tso Vilakazi has warned that the Buccaneers’ CAF CL journey might end at Friday. Friends and family of Reeva Steenkamp are remembering her on another birthday since her murder by boyfriend Oscar Pistorius in 2013. Missed an episode of Skeem Saam? No problem! Watch the latest episode of your favourite South African soapie here! Betway Premiership side Kaizer Chiefs are not resting. Amakhosi have reportedly sent an offer to buy a striker target for this season. Marshall Dlamini, the EFF secretary-general, will be the party’s chief whip in the National Assembly, replacing Floyd Shivambu.  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.