Sent weekly directly to your inbox! Badgers’ number one singles player Brandon Hall hits the ball back over the net in a singles match during the 2023 season. Big Foot’s Grayson Grunow, a part of the number one doubles team with his partner Jesse Robison, wrapped up his high school tennis career at the WIAA Individual State Tennis Tournament in Madison Friday, June 3. Badger senior and future collegiate tennis player Evan Bernales alongside his doubles partner Marco Alberts competed in the WIAA Division 1 Individual State Tennis Tournament Friday, June 2. Big Foot/Williams Bay tennis player Jesse Robison (Williams Bay) closed out his high school tennis career alongside his doubles partner Grayson Grunow at the WIAA Individual State Tennis Tournament in Madison Friday, June 2. The Lake Geneva Badger boys tennis team had three individual state qualifiers (Marco Alberts/Evan Bernales, Brandon Hall) and two from Big Foot/Williams Bay (Grayson Grunow/Jesse Robison) who all competed at the WIAA Individual State Tennis Championships Thursday, June 1, at Nielsen Stadium in Madison. Badger Singles: Round 1: Union Grove’s Nolan Shaub defeated Hall (20-6) 6-0, 6-2. Doubles: Round 1: Germantown’s Adam Emerson/Casey Emerson defeated Bernales/Alberts (22-5) 6-3, 6-2. Roundup “It may be wasn’t the matches that we wanted to have to end the individual season per say,” Lauterbach said. “But with what the one doubles team (Bernales/Alberts) and the one singles player (Hall) did throughout the year was amazing. It’s always disappointing to lose, but they had such a tremendous season, and we couldn’t have scripted this season any better from winning so many matches, being Southern Lakes Conference Champions and sectional champions, both individually and as a team.” The Badger tennis team (12-8) as a whole will be traveling back to Nielsen Stadium on the campus of the University of Wisconsin Friday, June 9-10 for the WIAA State Boys Team Tournament, where they will open against number one-seeded Middleton (19-0). “We’re in as a tough as draw as you can get,” Lauterbach said. “But getting there and being only one of the eight teams to qualify for the team state tournament is what we’ll hang our hat on. We’re going to compete to the best of our ability and go from there.” Big Foot/Williams Bay Doubles Round 1: Homestead’s Ryan Contardi/Edwin Wu defeated Grunow/Robison (15-14) 6-2, 6-0 Roundup “I think the guys were a little disappointed with how they played,” Big Foot/Williams Bay head boys tennis coach Adam Westhauser said. “We were able to connect with a bunch of the guys from Badger over the weekend and we all had some tough outings. But I think Grayson and Jesse enjoyed the opportunity and the experience of being able to go out there, and we’re just happy to be a part of it and represent Big Foot and Williams Bay up at state.” In the fall, Grunow will be attending the University of Wisconsin – Milwaukee where he will be majoring in business. Robison will be attending the University of Wisconsin – Madison and major in Civil Engineering. BFWB is expected to return all but three now graduated players (Grunow, Robison, and David Hernandez) to next year’s team. “Looking ahead to this upcoming year, a lot of seniors from our conference (Rock Valley) have now graduated and we have a team that’s weighted heavily with sophomores now who are going to be juniors next year,” Westhauser said. “That gives us a lot of opportunity. Obviously missing Jesse and Grayson will be tough, but this season allowed a lot of the underclassmen to gain a lot of experience in some tough matches, and that should bode well for us in 2024.” Badger freshman and number one singles player Brandon Hall backhands the ball back over the net in his match against Big Foot's Scout Giroux Thursday, May 18. Big Foot senior Grayson Grunow lines up the ball and hits it back over the net in the number one doubles match against Badger seniors Evan Bernales and Marco Alberts Thursday, May 18. Badger senior Evan Bernales hits the ball back over the net in their number one doubles match against Big Foot/Williams Bay Thursday, May 18. Badger freshman Christian Polkow hits the back over the net in their number 2 doubles match against Big Foot/Williams Bay Thursday, May 18. Big Foot sophomore Elliot Vail hits the ball in his doubles match against Badger Thursday, May 18. Badger freshman Johnny Engerman swings his racket with force and hits the ball back over the net in his match against Big Foot/Williams Bay Thursday, May 18. Big Foot's Ethan Rurey waits for the ball in his match against Badger Thursday, May 18. The Badger doubles pairing of Will Spende and Oliver Nafziger high five in between points during their match against Big Foot/Williams Bay Thursday, May 18. Big Foot's Logan McHugh hits the ball in his match against Badger Thursday, May 18. Badger senior Lars Matson anticipates the ball in his match against Big Foot/Williams Bay Thursday, May 18. Big Foot’s Yeison Santos runs to his right to hit the ball back over the net during a tennis match. Big Foot’s Jack Kammermeier his the ball back over the net in his match against Badger Thursday, May 18. Big Foot’s Scout Giroux competes in the number one singles match against Badger freshman Brandon Hall in the non-conference matchup Thursday, May 18. Sent weekly directly to your inbox! Reporter   The Badger boys cross country program has been a staple of success over the last several years, winning five consecutive Southern Lakes Confer… Big Foot football had a season last year that everyone would like to forget and move past. Fortunately, they’ve done that with the hiring of T… The Badger girls tennis team heads into the new 2024 season looking to build off an outstanding year on the tennis courts in 2023, where they …     Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.