NORWICH — These Guys Brewing is expected to open in its new, vastly larger space on Church Street by summer. Owners Ray and Rebecca Alberts said Monday that the brewery's new location at 49 Church Street, in the former Beth Jacob Religious School, should be open by June, with brewing operations already moved into the basement by March. While there will be a two-week downtime for the restaurant, extra beer will be brewed so there’s no disruption with the brewery move, said Ray Alberts. The business is currently at 78 Franklin St. “It’s possible (that it can open earlier), but I’d rather have people pleasantly surprised than disappointed,” Rebecca Alberts said. The restaurant will increase from 2,600 to 9,800 square feet, which includes a roof deck to be opened later. All of the staff will stay, and more will be hired, Rebecca Alberts said. The husband-and-wife team have been working on the move for over two years now. Revitalizing downtown NorwichNorwich wants to spend $10 million in state grants on lower Broadway. Here's how, and why. Before These Guys acquired the school building near the end of last year, an offer was made to take the business to Mystic, but “we really wanted to stay in Norwich,” Rebecca Alberts said. When The Bulletin visited the building last year, the inside walls and basement gymnasium tiles were still there, and there were concerns about asbestos. Now, the asbestos has been removed, the tile dug up, and the school building is currently hollow, with some building materials about, but the picturesque view of downtown Norwich and the harbor remains. However, parts and materials availability impacted the project last year, and are still impacting it now. For example, an elevator delivery has been pushed back three times now, and it’s expected in April, Rebecca Alberts said. “They have to come in and measure, and everyone has to agree with the drawings, and all of that takes time,” she said. “It’s one hiccup after another, but that’s construction, so it’s fair to a degree.” When the new brewery is up and running, These Guys expects to sell beer to package stores and restaurants all across the state, and eventually expand to other states, Ray Alberts said. “Especially all the golf courses around here,” he said. “I made deals last year with them all; it’s nice.” Your opinion wantedNorwich wants your input on city projects, but is this little-used tool worth the price? As These Guys prides itself as being one of the first of the current wave of businesses on Franklin Street, the move is “bittersweet.” “There’s a lot of good and bad memories in that location,” Rebecca Alberts said. Currently, the only other brewery in Norwich is Epicure Brewing, just a few doors down from These Guys’ location on Franklin Street. Rebecca Alberts would like to see at least a couple more brewers in the city, to create a walkable brewpub attraction like Portland, Maine. “The downtown has become more alive in the past few years with everything the city is trying to do,” said Rebecca Alberts, also the chairperson of the Norwich Community Development Corporation Board of Directors. Murals, public art in downtown NorwichFrom 50-foot-tall murals to painted fire hydrants: Norwich's unofficial public art trail Norwich Mayor Peter Nystrom, during a Monday visit to the city by Lt. Gov. Susan Bysiewicz, said the  old racquetball courts of the YMCA building could be turned into another brewery space, as part of the city’s $2 million Community Challenge Grant from the state. “The Y has an opportunity,” he said. Bysiewicz said she loved the idea of the city becoming “a small epicenter” for brewing. This article originally appeared on The Bulletin: These Guys Brewing in Norwich plans Church Street move for June 2023 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.