In a report released today, Simeon Gutman from Morgan Stanley maintained a Hold rating on Albertsons Companies (ACI – Research Report), with a price target of $24.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $19.20. Gutman covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Walmart, Wayfair, and AutoZone. According to TipRanks, Gutman has an average return of 1.2% and a 54.79% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on Albertsons Companies is a Hold with an average price target of $26.25. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on Albertsons Companies’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending November 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $18.15 billion and a net profit of $375.5 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $16.73 billion and had a net profit of $424.5 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 48 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of ACI in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Albertsons Companies Inc is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated on June 23, 2015. The Company is a food and drug retailer in the United States, with local presence and national scale. It operates approximately 2,205 stores across 33 states under 18 banners, including Albertsons, Safeway, Vons, Jewel-Osco, Shaw’s, Acme, Tom Thumb, Randalls, United Supermarkets, Pavilions, Star Market and Carrs. It provides its customers with a service-oriented shopping experience, including convenient and value-added services through 1,698 pharmacies and 378 adjacent fuel centers. Its stores offer grocery products, general merchandise, health and beauty care products, pharmacy, fuel and other items and services. Various agricultural commodities constitute the principal raw materials used by the company in the manufacture of its food products.  Read More on ACI: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks