Fry's Food Stores plans to add four new supermarkets in Arizona next year as parent Kroger Co. proceeds with its controversial merger plans with Albertsons Cos. One of the new grocery stores will be in the Gladden Farms section of Marana, but the other locations weren't disclosed. Fry announced it has added seven supermarkets and nine gasoline stations in Arizona since 2018 while extensively remodeling 40 other stores in the state — a combined investment of more than $550 million. Monica Garnes, president of Fry’s Food Stores, also noted that the company has expanded its online shopping service, PickUp, which is available at 111 Arizona locations. “Over the last five years, our investments in our state’s communities (demonstrate) Fry’s significant commitment to Arizona and (have) had a positive impact on the state’s economy and employment numbers," she said in a prepared statement. Kroger ranked as the fourth-largest nongovernmental Arizona employer in this year's Republic 100 special report, with 20,200 Arizona employees. Albertsons placed seventh with a statewide workforce of 14,400, raising concerns in Arizona about layoffs, store closures, higher prices and other repercussions if the merger goes through. However, two other nontraditional grocery rivals, Walmart Stores and Amazon, were higher up the Republic 100 employment list, in second and third places, respectively. Banner Health is Arizona's largest nongovernmental employer. Within Arizona, Kroger owns 127 Fry's stores and four Smith's Food and Drug locations. Some 24 Albertsons or Safeway stores in Arizona, roughly one-fifth of the locations that Albertsons Cos. owns here, will be sold to C&S Wholesale Groceries, under a divestiture agreement announced by the companies last month, with no store closures or layoffs of frontline workers planned. Overall, more than 400 stores nationally are slated for sale to privately held C&S. That deal is designed to allay anticompetitive concerns and reduce overlap with Fry's stores in certain communities. The Federal Trade Commission is reviewing the merger proposal, which was announced last October and is scheduled for completion in early 2024. Reach the reporter at russ.wiles@arizonarepublic.com.