In a report released yesterday, Alexander Hacking from Citi maintained a Hold rating on Commercial Metals Company (CMC – Research Report), with a price target of $56.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $43.22. Hacking covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as Newmont Mining, Alcoa, and Cleveland-Cliffs. According to TipRanks, Hacking has an average return of 19.7% and a 59.52% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Commercial Metals Company with a $57.75 average price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  The company has a one-year high of $57.90  and a one-year low of $31.16. Currently, Commercial Metals Company has an average volume of 875.3K.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Commercial Metals Co. engages in the manufacture, recycling, and marketing of steel and metal products. It operates through the following segments: Americas Recycling, Americas Mills, Americas Fabrication, and International Mill. The Americas Recycling segment processes scrap metals for use as a raw material by manufacturers of new metal products. The Americas Mills segment manufactures finished long steel products including reinforcing bar, merchant bar, light structural and other special sections as well as semi-finished billets for re-rolling and forging applications. The Americas Fabrication segment includes rebar fabrication operations, fence post manufacturing facilities, construction-related product facilities and facilities that heat-treat steel to strengthen and provide flexibility. The International Mill segment manufactures rebar, merchant bar and wire rod as well as semi-finished billets. The company was founded by Moses Feldman in 1915 and is headquartered in Irving, TX.  Read More on CMC: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks