NEW YORK, April  24, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Levi & Korsinsky, LLP notifies investors in Catalent, Inc. ("Catalent" or the "Company") CTLT of a class action securities lawsuit. CLASS DEFINITION: The lawsuit seeks to recover losses on behalf of Catalent investors who were adversely affected by alleged securities fraud between August 30, 2021 and October 31, 2022. Follow the link below to get more information and be contacted by a member of our team: https://zlk.com/pslra-1/catalent-class-action-submission-form?wire=3 CTLT investors may also contact Joseph E. Levi, Esq. via email at jlevi@levikorsinsky.com or by telephone at (212) 363-7500. CASE DETAILS: The filed complaint alleges that defendants made false statements and/or concealed that: a) Catalent materially overstated its revenue and earnings by prematurely recognizing revenue in violation of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"); b) Catalent had material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting related to revenue recognition; c) Catalent falsely represented demand for its products while it knowingly sold more product to its direct customers than could be sold to healthcare providers and end consumers; d) Catalent disregarded regulatory rules at key production facilities in order to rapidly produce excess inventory that was used to pad the Company's financial results through premature revenue recognition in violation of GAAP and/or stuffing its direct customers with this excess inventory; and e) as a result of the foregoing, defendants lacked a reasonable basis for their positive statements about the Company's financial performance, outlook, and regulatory compliance during the class period. WHAT'S NEXT? If you suffered a loss in Catalent during the relevant time frame, you have until April 25, 2023 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff. NO COST TO YOU: If you are a class member, you may be entitled to compensation without payment of any out-of-pocket costs or fees. There is no cost or obligation to participate. WHY LEVI & KORSINSKY: Over the past 20 years, the team at Levi & Korsinsky has secured hundreds of millions of dollars for aggrieved shareholders and built a track record of winning high-stakes cases. Our firm has extensive expertise representing investors in complex securities litigation and a team of over 70 employees to serve our clients. For seven years in a row, Levi & Korsinsky has ranked in ISS Securities Class Action Services' Top 50 Report as one of the top securities litigation firms in the United States. CONTACT:Levi & Korsinsky, LLP Joseph E. Levi, Esq.Ed Korsinsky, Esq.55 Broadway, 4th Floor Suite #427New York, NY 10006jlevi@levikorsinsky.comTel: (212) 363-7500Fax: (212) 363-7171www.zlk.com   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.