Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec 20, 2022-- Algolia, the leading API-First Platform for Search & Discovery, today announced that it is closing out 2022 with 30+ notable award wins from industry leaders including Forbes, Inc., Salesforce, and more. Driven by strategic executive leadership, inclusive company culture, strong core values, and a commitment to furthering innovation in search and discovery, Algolia is consistently recognized as a pioneer in the tech industry and the workforce. “From ranking within the top 40 on the Forbes Cloud 100 list to several accolades for being a great place to work, to partner awards, the diversity in how Algolia is being recognized truly stands out,” says Bernadette Nixon, CEO of Algolia. “It has been a fast-paced and momentous year for Algolia. To receive so much recognition during the same year that we celebrated our 10-year anniversary is a testament to the hard work our team puts in each and every day.” Company Growth and Executive Recognition  Driven by an increase in customers, multi-product innovation, the strategic acquisition of Search.io, and a growing partner ecosystem, Algolia, and its executive team, were recognized as leaders across many top-tier award programs. Ranking #39 on the Forbes Cloud 100, the company was showcased based on its market leadership, operating metrics, and people and culture. Similarly, Inc. Magazine’s annual 5000 list recognized Algolia as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America. CEO Bernadette Nixon recently earned prestigious industry recognition with her STEVIE Award for Women in Business as the Best Female Entrepreneur and acknowledgement in the Software Report as one of the top 50 Women in SaaS of 2022. Bernadette’s wins are a testament to her strong track record of growing and scaling global businesses. Technology Innovation  Algolia’s commitment to empowering companies to modernize their search and discovery capabilities and revamp the customer journey was recognized through numerous wins, including the Salesforce Commerce Cloud Partner Awards, which honored the company for its outstanding performance of digital transformation within the Salesforce ecosystem. While Algolia continually provides unparalleled search and discovery experiences, the MarTech Breakthrough Awards named Algolia the Best Overall Conversion Optimization Solution, beating out over 2,950 nominations from 18 countries. Ventana Research, an independent advisory services firm, recognized Algolia with a Digital Innovation Award for its ability to advance technology, change, and generate value within its industry. Algolia also took first place in G2’s Enterprise Search Software list for the 11th consecutive time. Another notable award received in 2022 was the Hermes Creative Award for Best Digital Billboard. Company Culture  Over the years, Algolia has secured multiple accolades for being a top workplace due to its company values: grit, humility, care, candor, and trust. In 2022, the company earned a spot on Great Places To Work’s list of UK employers for the first time. Additionally, Algolia won Comparably Awards for Best Company Culture, Best CEO, Best Company for Diversity, and Best Company for Women. For more information on Algolia, visit https://www.algolia.com/. About Algolia  Algolia is revolutionizing search and discovery by providing the world’s most powerful API-First Search and Discovery Platform with its unique hybrid search engine, which is a combination of keyword and vector-based semantic search via Neuralsearch technology, in a single API. Algolia empowers both builders and business users with a better way to build unique and engaging end user experiences at Internet scale to predict what customers want with blazing fast speed and the best application browse experience leading to more remarkable Discovery. Algolia is your guide to the world’s content powering discovery where you live, work, and play. Discovery, as a result, is reinvented as the right content finds each user to inform, enrich and surprise. More than 17,000+ companies including Under Armour, Birchbox, Stripe, Slack, Medium, and Zendesk rely on Algolia to manage over 1.5 trillion search queries a year. Algolia is headquartered in San Francisco with offices in New York, Atlanta, Austin, Paris, London, Bucharest, and Sydney. To learn more, visit www.algolia.com. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221219005710/en/  CONTACT: Media Sean Welch  [email protected] INDUSTRY KEYWORD: APPS/APPLICATIONS TECHNOLOGY COMMUNICATIONS SOFTWARE NETWORKS INTERNET DIGITAL MARKETING SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION RETAIL ONLINE RETAIL  SOURCE: Algolia  Copyright Business Wire 2022.  http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221219005710/en Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.