The atmosphere is primed for a Power 5 college football showdown at Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium, for the first night game of the season and the first real test for the Razorbacks. Several fans were on hand Friday night to witness the stadium’s red glow on the eve of the game, and the excitement continues to rise as Saturday’s 6:30 p.m. kickoff approaches. Fans and others have taken to Twitter to offer their pregame thoughts on the matchup with the Cougars. Here is a glimpse of what’s being said: BYU players have no idea where Arkansas is on the map. pic.twitter.com/u29vP0BBnq — Barstool Sports (@barstoolsports) September 15, 2023 Kenneth Dewayne Jefferson Jr goes off for 300+ yards passing and 70+ yards rushing. Arkansas 48 – BYU 17 Let’s hear your predictions below! pic.twitter.com/7VatvFjGuX — Hillbilly HogFan (@HillbillyHogfan) September 15, 2023 A preview of BYU and Arkansas 😂🐗 pic.twitter.com/mckjMnLd00 — Josh (@OleDavis22) September 14, 2023 BYU vs. Arkansas predictions with the voice of the Razorbacks Jon Williams (@radiojondeek)#BYUSN | #BYUFootball pic.twitter.com/XJFtI1Hb44 — BYU Sports Nation (@BYUSportsNation) September 15, 2023 Story originally appeared on Razorbacks Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there will be a 100-game winner in MLB this season, take a look at the panic meter for teams in baseball and discuss the Rays recalling top prospect Junior Caminero. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday.