
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)   Digital Commerce Market
The report focuses on the growth prospects, digital commerce market forecast, restraints, and digital commerce market analysis.
PORTLAND, PORTLAND, OR, UNITED STATES, July 10, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- According to the report published by Allied Market Research, the global digital commerce market was estimated at $4.21 trillion in 2020 and is anticipated to hit $17.53 trillion by 2030, registering a CAGR of 15.1% from 2021 to 2030. The report provides an in-depth analysis of the top investment pockets, top winning strategies, drivers & opportunities, market size & estimations, competitive scenario, and varying market trends.
Growing penetration of the Internet and smartphones, increasing usage of social media and social commerce, and advancement of multiple payment modes drive the growth of the global digital commerce market. On the other hand, online frauds and several cyber security issues restrain the growth to some extent. However, digital commerce automation and the expansion of cross-border e-commerce are expected to create lucrative opportunities in the industry.
Request Sample Report at:  
COVID-19 scenario-
.Huge supply chain disruptions, especially during the initial phase of the pandemic, augmented the demand for digital commerce.
.At the same time, demand for online shopping also increased significantly, which made the food & beverage, manufacturing, and logistics companies spike up their investments in automation, including the automation of supply chains. This factor impacted the global digital commerce market positively.
.This trend is quite likely to continue post-pandemic as well.
The global digital commerce market is analyzed across components, browsing methods, payment modes, business types, industry vertical, and region.
By browsing medium, the mobile/table segment held the highest market share in 2020, holding more nearly three-fifths of the global market. The same segment is also projected to manifest the fastest CAGR of 16.5% from 2021 to 2030.
For Report Customization:  
By payment mode, the digital wallets segment contributed to the major share in 2020, accounting for around two-fifths half of the global digital commerce market, and is expected to lead the trail during the forecast period. The same segment is also anticipated to cite the fastest CAGR of 17.4% from 2021 to 2030.
By region, North America held the highest market share in terms of revenue 2020, garnering more than two-fifts of the global digital commerce market. The market across Asia-Pacific, however, is expected to showcase the fastest CAGR of 17.7% throughout the forecast period. The other provinces discussed in the report Europe and LAMEA.
The key market players analyzed in the global digital commerce industry report include Best Buy, Amazon.com, Inc., JD.com, Inc., Otto GmbH & Co, Rakuten, Inc., Walmart, Inc., The Home Depot, Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Shopify, Inc., and eBay, Inc. These market players have adhered to several strategies including partnership, expansion, collaboration, joint ventures, and others to prove their flair in the industry.
Buy the Complete Report (322 Pages PDF with Insights, Charts, Tables, and Figures) at: 
Key Benefits For Stakeholders:
.The study provides an in-depth analysis of the digital commerce market along with the current trends and future estimations to elucidate the imminent investment pockets.
.Information about key drivers, restraints, and opportunities and their impact analysis on the digital commerce market size is provided.
.Porter's five forces analysis illustrates the potency of buyers and suppliers operating in the digital commerce market.
.The quantitative analysis from 2020 to 2030 is provided to determine the digital commerce market potential.
Inquiry Before Buying:  
Thanks for reading this article; you can also get individual chapter-wise sections or region-wise report versions like North America, Europe, or Asia. 
If you have any special requirements, please let us know and we will offer you the report as per your requirements. 
Lastly, this report provides market intelligence most comprehensively. The report structure has been kept such that it offers maximum business value. It provides critical insights into the market dynamics and will enable strategic decision-making for the existing market players as well as those willing to enter the market. 
Similar Report:
1. e-commerce logistics market 
About Us: 
Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of "Market Research Reports" and "Business Intelligence Solutions." AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients in making strategic business decisions and achieving sustainable growth in their respective market domains. 
Pawan Kumar, the CEO of Allied Market Research, is leading the organization toward providing high-quality data and insights. We are in professional corporate relations with various companies. This helps us dig out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirm utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Every data company in the domain is concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry. 
Contact: David Correa 5933 NE Wi Toll-Free: 1-800-792-5285 UK: +44-845-528-1300n Sivers Drive #205, Portland, OR 97220 United States Hong Kong: +852-301-84916 India (Pune): +91-20-66346060 Fax: +1-855-550-5975  Web:  Follow Us on: LinkedIn TwitterAllied Market Research
Allied Market Research
+1 800-792-5285
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
twitter 
linkedin  MENAFN10072023003118003196ID1106576879 Digital Commerce Market The report focuses on the growth prospects, digital commerce market forecast, restraints, and digital commerce market analysis. PORTLAND, PORTLAND, OR, UNITED STATES, July 10, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- According to the report published by Allied Market Research, the global digital commerce market was estimated at $4.21 trillion in 2020 and is anticipated to hit $17.53 trillion by 2030, registering a CAGR of 15.1% from 2021 to 2030. The report provides an in-depth analysis of the top investment pockets, top winning strategies, drivers & opportunities, market size & estimations, competitive scenario, and varying market trends. Growing penetration of the Internet and smartphones, increasing usage of social media and social commerce, and advancement of multiple payment modes drive the growth of the global digital commerce market. On the other hand, online frauds and several cyber security issues restrain the growth to some extent. However, digital commerce automation and the expansion of cross-border e-commerce are expected to create lucrative opportunities in the industry. Request Sample Report at:   COVID-19 scenario- .Huge supply chain disruptions, especially during the initial phase of the pandemic, augmented the demand for digital commerce. .At the same time, demand for online shopping also increased significantly, which made the food & beverage, manufacturing, and logistics companies spike up their investments in automation, including the automation of supply chains. This factor impacted the global digital commerce market positively. .This trend is quite likely to continue post-pandemic as well. The global digital commerce market is analyzed across components, browsing methods, payment modes, business types, industry vertical, and region. By browsing medium, the mobile/table segment held the highest market share in 2020, holding more nearly three-fifths of the global market. The same segment is also projected to manifest the fastest CAGR of 16.5% from 2021 to 2030. For Report Customization:   By payment mode, the digital wallets segment contributed to the major share in 2020, accounting for around two-fifths half of the global digital commerce market, and is expected to lead the trail during the forecast period. The same segment is also anticipated to cite the fastest CAGR of 17.4% from 2021 to 2030. By region, North America held the highest market share in terms of revenue 2020, garnering more than two-fifts of the global digital commerce market. The market across Asia-Pacific, however, is expected to showcase the fastest CAGR of 17.7% throughout the forecast period. The other provinces discussed in the report Europe and LAMEA. The key market players analyzed in the global digital commerce industry report include Best Buy, Amazon.com, Inc., JD.com, Inc., Otto GmbH & Co, Rakuten, Inc., Walmart, Inc., The Home Depot, Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Shopify, Inc., and eBay, Inc. These market players have adhered to several strategies including partnership, expansion, collaboration, joint ventures, and others to prove their flair in the industry. Buy the Complete Report (322 Pages PDF with Insights, Charts, Tables, and Figures) at:  Key Benefits For Stakeholders: .The study provides an in-depth analysis of the digital commerce market along with the current trends and future estimations to elucidate the imminent investment pockets. .Information about key drivers, restraints, and opportunities and their impact analysis on the digital commerce market size is provided. .Porter's five forces analysis illustrates the potency of buyers and suppliers operating in the digital commerce market. .The quantitative analysis from 2020 to 2030 is provided to determine the digital commerce market potential. Inquiry Before Buying:   Thanks for reading this article; you can also get individual chapter-wise sections or region-wise report versions like North America, Europe, or Asia.  If you have any special requirements, please let us know and we will offer you the report as per your requirements.  Lastly, this report provides market intelligence most comprehensively. The report structure has been kept such that it offers maximum business value. It provides critical insights into the market dynamics and will enable strategic decision-making for the existing market players as well as those willing to enter the market.  Similar Report: 1. e-commerce logistics market  About Us:  Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of "Market Research Reports" and "Business Intelligence Solutions." AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients in making strategic business decisions and achieving sustainable growth in their respective market domains.  Pawan Kumar, the CEO of Allied Market Research, is leading the organization toward providing high-quality data and insights. We are in professional corporate relations with various companies. This helps us dig out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirm utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Every data company in the domain is concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry.  Contact: David Correa 5933 NE Wi Toll-Free: 1-800-792-5285 UK: +44-845-528-1300n Sivers Drive #205, Portland, OR 97220 United States Hong Kong: +852-301-84916 India (Pune): +91-20-66346060 Fax: +1-855-550-5975  Web:  Follow Us on: LinkedIn Twitter Allied Market Research
Allied Market Research
+1 800-792-5285
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
twitter 
linkedin  MENAFN10072023003118003196ID1106576879 MENAFN10072023003118003196ID1106576879 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN