Eric Reignier (left) and Greg Gatzke (right). Image courtesy of ZAG Technical Services ZAG Technical Services (ZAG) has announced the promotion of Eric Regnier to Vice President of Operations. In 2021, Regnier was brought on as a project manager, then became ZAG’s IT Security and Compliance line of business manager. Earlier this year, Regnier was named interim vice president of operations, where he oversaw the client services, engineering and project management teams. Greg Gatzke, founder and president of ZAG says, “Eric’s exceptional ability to navigate complex operational challenges, streamline processes, and drive continuous improvement has been instrumental in delivering above and beyond clients’ expected business outcomes. Eric’s commitment to cultivating talent, empowering individuals, and promoting a positive work environment has also profoundly impacted team members, fostering a collaborative and respectful environment that has accelerated our growth.” Before joining ZAG, Regnier earned a bachelor’s degree, two master’s degrees and numerous certifications in technology and computer science. He also served 13 years as a fast-attack submarine officer in the U.S. Navy. Regnier also spent a considerable portion of his childhood on the family farm in Nebraska, allowing him to couple his passion for agriculture and skills in technology. Regnier says, "It's an honor to lead this team of talented and dedicated professionals to achieve ZAG's mission of 'Enabling Our Clients to Succeed'. New technologies and the evolving needs of the businesses we support are what make our work challenging and engaging, but it's ZAG's people and our clients that make our work meaningful and rewarding. I am grateful to be entrusted with this charge and am excited to meet the challenges ahead." You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Food Engineering audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of Food Engineering or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
    Join the editorial staff from FOOD ENGINEERING and Refrigerated & Frozen Foods as they break down the 2024 Top 100 Food and Beverage Companies and discuss the factors affecting this year’s rankings.
 Don't miss this opportunity to enhance your recipe management processes and stay ahead in the competitive food and beverage market.
   Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing