Edited is making retail insights more personal. The global retail intelligence platform has launched MyEdited, which the company says is “drawing on the expertise of merchandisers, buyers and retail strategists from the world’s biggest brands.” The platform’s new feature has a Q&A interface and is designed to “quickly and efficiently supply retail professionals with key insights into their business performance powered by both internal and market data,” the company said in a statement. The company is calling it a game-changer. More from Footwear News How a LinkedIn Employee Created Community at Work Through a Shared Love of Sneakers Tech Tuesdays: Bata Taps Blue Yonder + More News Doug Kofoid, CEO of Edited, said the company believes this new interface “will be a game-changer for retailers. Merchandisers, buyers and planners will no longer have to dig through multiple data sources to surface valuable insights. MyEdited will not only supply them with the right questions they should be asking, but also combine both their internal data and competitor market data in one simple dashboard.” The upgrade was created by a team at Edited led by its chief product officer, Brian Tomz, along with members of the firm’s advisory board, including executives from Puma, PVH and Coach New York. The company said MyEdited interface “answers some of the most common questions asked by [its] customer base, including, ‘Which products are price increase candidates?’ and, ‘What are the assortment gaps?’” In the fintech space, Splitit, the buy now, pay later solution provider, said it is expanding its partnership with AliExpress to expand into the U.S. with its “pay after delivery” service. The “pay after delivery” service by Splitit allows shoppers to start paying for their products after delivery is complete via a custom-branded experience embedded into the AliExpress checkout. Splitit’s technology will allow AliExpress shoppers to pay for their purchases with their existing credit cards. This follows a successful rollout in countries such as Germany, Spain, France, Italy, the Netherlands, the U.K. and Australia. In Spain and Germany, Splitit has implemented its payment solution of paying by installments using existing credit for customers to pay over three or six months for AliExpress. Mirakl’s latest industry report reveals insights into online marketplaces. The company noted that, in 2022, “platform business models like drop shipping and digital marketplaces grew at six times the overall e-commerce rate. Both marketplace operators and third-party sellers alike are flocking to these platforms in order to take advantage of growing customer demand and profitable adjacent opportunities.” Researchers at Mirakl said the growth is driven by “the millions of individual businesses selling on those platforms. Brands and retailers recognize the opportunities offered by platform business models, as they can join forces with other retailers and reach new audiences in a matter of weeks — in some cases, businesses can begin selling on marketplaces in just four days.” The drop-ship model is ideal for small businesses in particular as they don’t have to worry about inventory. Other findings from the report include that the number of businesses that began selling on marketplaces in 2022 “increased by 31 percent over the previous year, demonstrating a surge of interest in the platform economy.” The report also showed that 53 percent of marketplace sellers surveyed “are selling on more marketplaces than they were a year ago, and 62 percent expect to expand across additional marketplaces in the next 12 months.” Best of Footwear News A History of Forever 21: From Humble Beginnings to Bankruptcy and the Shaquille O'Neal Bounceback Footwear Company CEOs You Should Know List of Footwear Company CEOs You Should Know Sign up for FN's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.