The site even used photos taken from her site to sell the jewellery, which is now being sold on AliExpress for 40p Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters A jewellery maker found online shopping giant Shein flogging 'rip off' versions of her £55 handmade hedgehog earrings for just £1.50 each - even using her own photos to market them. Emma Farley claims she discovered her sterling silver hedgehog earrings being sold by the world's biggest fashion retailer earlier this month and then discovered them also on fellow Chinese giant AliExpress too. The 47-year-old said the two sites featured her own images taken from her websites to advertise the cheap 'knock-off' products, which feature her hand holding the handmade earrings. Emma said she was first alerted to the 'copied' designs when one of her followers sent her a screenshot of her design being sold on Shein, before a friend flagged it up on AliExpress with six of her photos advertising the product for as little as 40p. It also proclaims to have '99,998 pieces available'. The part-time jeweller said she didn't know who to contact at Shein, whose profits were believed to be $1.1billion in 2021, to complain to so instead shared her outrage on social media. And within 24 hours of shaming the company, Emma said she received a message from Shein on Twitter who informed her the product had been taken off their website and they were investigating the incident further. After emailing Shein, an 'IP [intellectual property] counsellor' at the company replied and blamed the incident on a 'third party vendor' who they said had assured them the product did not infringe any intellectual property rights. Shein demanded she submit proof she owns the designs, including sending 'IP certificates and registrations' and screenshots of the original design process. Shein said it was 'not their intent to infringe anyone's valid intellectual property' and claimed they had launched an investigation. Emma, whose full-time job is as a freelance marketer, said: "It's absolutely crazy. My first thought was what are these poor customers receiving as they were using my images to advertise the product. Were they going to receive nothing [after ordering them]? Emma Farley's silver hedgehog earrings, which shopping giant Shein and AliExpress used to market their rip off earrings (Image: Kennedy News and Media) "This is my design being used on other websites. What if people thought they were my products and linked it back to me and then to not receive them. That would be awful. [Their designs] are a cheap version. If you think you're getting what you see in the images you'll be disappointed. "It's really misleading marketing." After finding her design had also been copied by AliExpress, Emma held off from contacting the website straight away and decided to order a pair of the earrings to see what the product was actually like. AliExpress was launched in 2010 and is an online retail service made up of small businesses in China and other locations such as Singapore. When the AliExpress earrings arrived in the post this week in a small plastic bag, Emma described them as a '100 percent rip off' of her design. Emma said: "It's one hundred per cent a rip off of my design. "They have tried to replicate the product. It's a similar size and it has got the same blue eyes as my design. "[AliExpress's] design is a sculpted hedgehog like mine but it is made out of a base metal and the ear wires are a cheap alternative so if you had any allergies they would not be good for your ears. I make my product out of real silver and I hand sculpt everyone under a magnifying lens. "Theirs [AliExpress] are definitely made in a mould. It is basically a cheaper version of mine." Emma launched her business Little Silver Hedgehog in 2014 and made her first pair of the hedgehog earrings in 2018. She initially created the jewellery business to raise funds to help rescue hedgehogs and wildlife and sells her products via Facebook and Etsy. The jewellery maker said her designs are shipped all over the world and said she recently shipped an order to Singapore, which she suspects could be how the Chinese-owned businesses were able to get hold of her design. Emma said: "I know I did send a pair of my earrings to Singapore not long ago and I'm trying to find out where this went. A screenshot of the AliExpress website using Emma's images (Image: Kennedy News and Media) "I remember thinking at the time this was a bit unusual but I do send orders all over the world. Now I can't trace it but I 100 percent sent one of my designs to the far east. "It doesn't do anything that the design was intended to do, which is to raise awareness and help wildlife. It couldn't be more different. I always pride myself on ethics. "I even use parcel tape without any plastic in it so it can be recycled, my boxes are recycled and even the silver I use to create the product is recycled. Theirs [AliExpress] came in a plastic bag inside a jiffy bag." Emma said after posting about the experience on social media she found other small businesses have also had this happen to them. She now hopes to raise awareness of what is happening and show the effect it is having on small business like herself. Emma said: "It's just so sickening and sad to have heard about so many other makers affected in the same way. Even though I am flattered in some way that the design is deemed fabulous enough to be copied, this theft has a huge impact on businesses. "It took me many hours of experimenting and designing to craft these. It cannot be right that all this hard work can be copied and then sold for £1.50. Please consider shopping small, local and ethical. "I'm not sure I can stop it. They have been mass-produced now and they'll be being sold all over the place. For me, it is now about raising awareness of it." Emma's hedgehog earring design is still being sold on the AliExpress website but has been discounted to 40 pence per unit. Emma said she intends to contact AliExpress this week regarding her designs to get them to take the product off their site. Shein's IP counsellor's email response to Emma reads: "Shein respects artists and the intellectual property rights of others. Upon receiving your email, Shein immediately removed the disputed images and products from the site and will not sell them again in the future. "Please also note that Shein did not design the disputed products - the products were sourced from a third-party vendor who represents and warrants that the products do not infringe any third party's intellectual property rights. However, we would like you to provide the following document(s), whichever applies to you the best. The proof of ownership includes but is not limited to: "Copies of IP certificates and deposits, registrations. The first date of public listings if no registrations (mandatory). Screenshots of the original design process documents. And screenshots displaying the shooting time and shooting parameter setting for the original photographs (mandatory)." A Shein spokesperson said: "Shein takes all claims of infringement seriously. It is not our intent to infringe anyone's valid intellectual property and it is not our business model to do so. Upon receiving this claim, we immediately removed the item in question from our site and launched an investigation. "Shein suppliers and marketplace sellers are required to comply with company policy and certify their products do not infringe third-party IP. We continue to invest in and improve our product review process." AliExpress was contacted for comment. 