 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  •The event will include hackathons, panel discussions, tech mentorships, STEM awareness workshops, pitching competitions and Networking sessions with Tech and innovation experts. •“We have already started the calling for applications and we hope to award the top 3 innovations and ideas with a price of Sh300,000 and get the opportunity to be incubated and accelerated,” he said. In a bid to foster innovation and nurture entrepreneurship at the grassroots level, the Countrywide Innovation hub is conducting the North Eastern Innovation week at Garissa university. The symposium which started today will end on Wednesday. According to Abdinoor Alimahdi Secretary General of the Association of Countrywide Innovation Hubs, the Objective of the event is to tap into the unique potentials of the region by encouraging young innovators to showcase their ideas and get mentorship and training to sharpen their skills and approaches to improve their ideas. The event will include hackathons, panel discussions, tech mentorships, STEM awareness workshops, pitching competitions and Networking sessions with Tech and innovation experts. “We have already started the calling for applications and we hope to award the top 3 innovations and ideas with a price of Sh300,000 and get the opportunity to be incubated and accelerated,” he said. Alimahdi regretted that not much has been done to bring down information to the Marginalized population, making it aloof to emerging trends in innovation and technology. “It is unfortunate that innovation work in the rural and semi-urban areas is least highlighted, much attention is given to start-ups and innovative work within the big cities with more funding and support circulating in the more accessible and enlightened population within the city, this is what needs to be changed,” he said. Abdikadir Aden, an environmentalist crusader based in Garissa said organizing the North Eastern Innovation Week at Garissa University is timely. “In the semi-urban regions, a huge bulk of talent and skill remain untapped as Investors and partners focus is concentrated on innovators in the big cities, which also happen to be better endowed with technology and access to the same is cheaper and faster,” he said. He added: “ Due to its centrality, innovative work and programming, in Nairobi and big cities in the region, is more highlighted and support to innovation and start-up development is immense in the city overshadowing the big opportunities and potential outside the city." “From addressing gaps in Education, Health, Forest and Agriculture Sectors, a Regional Innovation Hub is urgently needed for Northern Kenya. So much to learn from the community with great minds and ideas. We must invest in locally made solutions for local problems,” he said. The event was graced by among others Garissa University vice-chancellor Prof. Ahmed Warfa, Garissa trade executive  Mohamed Suleiman Maalim, and his Education Madam Ebla Mihaj for gracing the North Eastern Countywide Innovation Hubs is an association of ICT and innovation hubs located outside Nairobi. Its main objective is to promote activities and programs of the member hubs and support their vision of testing and building impactful sustainable businesses in rural and Second tire towns of Kenya. Currently, they have a membership of 63 members spread across 15 Kenyan Counties. Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  