EPA has announced $523,796 in funding to 21 student teams for their research and innovative solutions to address environmental and public health challenges as part of the Agency’s People, Prosperity, and the Planet (P3) Program. “EPA’s P3 program, now in its twentieth year, is an exciting and unique program that recognizes the power of students to translate imagination and science into new solutions that protect human health and the environment,” said Chris Frey, Assistant Administrator for EPA’s Office of Research and Development. “Congratulations to this year’s teams. Their innovative projects tackle critical environmental issues and include an eco-friendly coating to reduce contamination in marine environments, a device to remove microplastics from stormwater, an air monitoring and filtration technology to reduce student exposures to air pollutants, and more.” The 21 Phase I recipients announced today will receive grants of up to $25,000 each to help them develop their proof of concept and will be eligible to compete for a Phase II grant of up to $100,000 to further implement their designs. Teams from the following institutions are receiving funding for the 19th Annual P3 Phase I awards: Boasting a circulation of more than 95,000 100% qualified subscribers, Waste Advantage Magazine is an independent publisher with staff that has more than 100 years of experience in publishing. Printed 12X annually, Waste Advantage Magazine is solely dedicated to covering the solid waste and recycling industry with one publication and one price.

Our circulation delivers a blanket coverage of the industry, focusing on our key audience that consists of municipal and private sector executives and operations managers in the areas of collection, transfer stations, recycling, landfills, waste conversion and C&D activities throughout North America. Diverse content helps our audience stay informed through the latest news, best practices, equipment and technology, and a dedicated MarketPlace connects buyers and sellers of new and used equipment and services.  Phone
1-800-358-2873 Email
[email protected] Copyright © 2024 Waste Advantage Magazine. All rights reserved. Website designed and programmed by Green Group Studio