The National Alliance of Filipino-Americans (NAFA) welcomes a new office, it’s only one in the Coachella Valley. Located off Cook Street in Palm Desert, the new office is a big step for NAFA's mission. “We exist in order to serve the community of Filipino-Americans and give them services that will enhance their life," said Isabel Chapman, President of NAFA. The organization has been around since 2010, providing medical services through a free clinic on the 3rd Saturday of each month. “People who do not have any insurance, or they might have brand new insurance but don't know where to go. Or somebody who's just here to visit the country," Chapman explained. “We give them free lab work if they are in dire need of it health wise and cannot afford it out of their own pocket.” Services include medical and dental outreach. Although their mission is nothing new, Chapman tells News Channel 3 this office will act as an established home base.  Located inside the LaserMed Pain Institute, Chapman says it’s a place where NAFA can further expand its medical outreach mission. “We do not turn away anybody who walks in the door. You come in, we serve you. And we have had other non Filipino Americans come in," she said. “Our first major administrative project should be the conversion of medical records fromhardcopy to electronic files so we may expand our health services,” says Dr. Kenneth Russ who wasmedical director of NAFA’s Medical Outreach for 10 years. “Given the Outreach has been goingfor the past 12 years since NAFA’s inception, our files need to be brought to the 21st centurytechnology.” He says the organization’s mission to help those who are less-fortunate in the community is what drives them. “It's a Filipino word. It's bayanihan, which is kind of help your neighbor,' Dr. Russ explained. Their warmth and their spirit of caring and that appeals to me, and that the group of board members and volunteers wonderful group of people.” The new office of NAFA is located at 36917 Cook Street, Suite 103, Palm Desert. The suite is the clinic for LaserMed Pain Institute.  For more information, call (760)-200-2456 or (760) 713-6232. 
Jump to comments ↓
 Samantha joined KESQ News Channel 3 in May 2021. Learn more about Samantha here here. News Channel 3 is committed to providing a forum for civil and constructive conversation. Please keep your comments respectful and relevant. You can review our Community Guidelines by clicking here  If you would like to share a story idea, please submit it here. Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Community Guidelines KESQ-TV FCC Public File | KPSP-TV FCC Public File | KDFX-TV FCC Public File | EEO Report | FCC Applications | Do Not Sell My Personal Information Daily News Headlines
Morning Forecast
Breaking News
Severe Weather
Contests & Promotions
Coronavirus Updates Accessibility Tools