
Projects
 
Images
 
Products
 
Folders
 
Feed
   Marina Bay Sands has unveiled plans for a significant expansion project to be designed by Safdie Architects, led by Moshe Safdie, the architect of the existing structure. Featuring a luxury hotel and a 15,000-seat entertainment arena, the new intervention signals a new development phase in the evolution of the iconic landmark in Singapore. Anticipated to commence construction by July 2025, the project is slated for completion by July 2029, promising an array of new amenities and facilities for visitors to enjoy. Marina Bay Sands has unveiled plans for a significant expansion project to be designed by Safdie Architects, led by Moshe Safdie, the architect of the existing structure. Featuring a luxury hotel and a 15,000-seat entertainment arena, the new intervention signals a new development phase in the evolution of the iconic landmark in Singapore. Anticipated to commence construction by July 2025, the project is slated for completion by July 2029, promising an array of new amenities and facilities for visitors to enjoy. This article is the eighth in a series focusing on the Architecture of the Metaverse. ArchDaily has collaborated with John Marx, AIA, the founding design principal and Chief Artistic Officer of Form4 Architecture, to bring you monthly articles that seek to define the Metaverse, convey the potential of this new realm as well as understand its constraints. In this feature, architect John Marx interviews Heather Gallagher, an international expert in transformative events and the experience economy and former Head of Technology at Burning Man.  This article is the eighth in a series focusing on the Architecture of the Metaverse. ArchDaily has collaborated with John Marx, AIA, the founding design principal and Chief Artistic Officer of Form4 Architecture, to bring you monthly articles that seek to define the Metaverse, convey the potential of this new realm as well as understand its constraints. In this feature, architect John Marx interviews Heather Gallagher, an international expert in transformative events and the experience economy and former Head of Technology at Burning Man.  + 6 BIG and HNTB have just won the competition to design an Athletics ballpark in Las Vegas. Situated along the iconic Las Vegas Strip, the ballpark for the Athletics Major League Baseball team promises to uphold the values of the “Entertainment Capital of the World.” Nestled between Tropicana Avenue and Reno Avenue on Las Vegas Boulevard, the ballpark boasts 33,000 seats in an open-air stadium sprawling across nine acres. BIG and HNTB have just won the competition to design an Athletics ballpark in Las Vegas. Situated along the iconic Las Vegas Strip, the ballpark for the Athletics Major League Baseball team promises to uphold the values of the “Entertainment Capital of the World.” Nestled between Tropicana Avenue and Reno Avenue on Las Vegas Boulevard, the ballpark boasts 33,000 seats in an open-air stadium sprawling across nine acres. With the approach of summer in the southern hemisphere — promising to be one of the most intense on record amidst a year already considered one of the hottest in history — the search for places that offer moments of relaxation, freshness, and fun intensifies. As the high temperatures of summer draw near, the relevance and demand for facilities like clubs, with their outdoor leisure areas, pools, and green spaces, stand out significantly. These places become true havens, providing the opportunity to escape the heat and a range of other activities and benefits for their users. With the approach of summer in the southern hemisphere — promising to be one of the most intense on record amidst a year already considered one of the hottest in history — the search for places that offer moments of relaxation, freshness, and fun intensifies. As the high temperatures of summer draw near, the relevance and demand for facilities like clubs, with their outdoor leisure areas, pools, and green spaces, stand out significantly. These places become true havens, providing the opportunity to escape the heat and a range of other activities and benefits for their users. + 11 The vomitorium and its purpose is one of historical architecture’s most common misconceptions. It’s said that the vomitorium was a room that neighbored Roman feasts, where guests could socially eject the contents of their stomach before returning to the feast with renewed capacity. Although this theory was not entirely based on fiction – as Romans are known to have indeed taken up habitual regurgitation, possibly as a sign of excess wealth – there’s no reason to believe there was a specific room dedicated to the practice. The vomitorium and its purpose is one of historical architecture’s most common misconceptions. It’s said that the vomitorium was a room that neighbored Roman feasts, where guests could socially eject the contents of their stomach before returning to the feast with renewed capacity. Although this theory was not entirely based on fiction – as Romans are known to have indeed taken up habitual regurgitation, possibly as a sign of excess wealth – there’s no reason to believe there was a specific room dedicated to the practice. The original usage of the term ‘vomitorium’ – taken from the same Latin root ‘vomere’ – in fact refers to a room that allows a large building to disgorge itself of its contents. A vomitorium, therefore, is nothing more than a corridor. Specifically, a wide, arterial corridor leading to or from a high-capacity public space such as a theatre, arena, or stadium, designed with the intention to get as many people in or out of the venue as quickly as possible. A well-designed vomitorium, for example, is essential for efficient emergency evacuation procedures, but even during day-to-day activity, the ability to move large numbers of people quickly helps with a venue’s turnover and creates a more pleasant crowd experience. The original usage of the term ‘vomitorium’ – taken from the same Latin root ‘vomere’ – in fact refers to a room that allows a large building to disgorge itself of its contents. A vomitorium, therefore, is nothing more than a corridor. Specifically, a wide, arterial corridor leading to or from a high-capacity public space such as a theatre, arena, or stadium, designed with the intention to get as many people in or out of the venue as quickly as possible. A well-designed vomitorium, for example, is essential for efficient emergency evacuation procedures, but even during day-to-day activity, the ability to move large numbers of people quickly helps with a venue’s turnover and creates a more pleasant crowd experience. + 30 When designing buildings, attention often focuses on residential units, prioritizing apartment comfort and functionality. However, it is equally important to consider common areas, which play a fundamental role in residents' quality of life and in building a community that shares the same space. In addition to their social benefits, these communal spaces can also play a significant role in promoting sustainability and user well-being. After all, the integration of green areas and spaces dedicated to leisure and sports reduces stress and provides new activities for residents. When designing buildings, attention often focuses on residential units, prioritizing apartment comfort and functionality. However, it is equally important to consider common areas, which play a fundamental role in residents' quality of life and in building a community that shares the same space. In addition to their social benefits, these communal spaces can also play a significant role in promoting sustainability and user well-being. After all, the integration of green areas and spaces dedicated to leisure and sports reduces stress and provides new activities for residents. + 32 Even before we got used to remote work, some offices were already concerned about the well-being of their teams and how to attract new talent to work in their physical spaces. In this context, the decompression rooms had already become fundamental parts of the architectural program to demonstrate that the company is concerned with encouraging people to live together, relieving everyday pressure and bringing moments of pleasure during the workday. Currently, when many have already returned to the offices, environments like this have become increasingly essential to ensure the well-being of the employee, as well as improve their performance. Even before we got used to remote work, some offices were already concerned about the well-being of their teams and how to attract new talent to work in their physical spaces. In this context, the decompression rooms had already become fundamental parts of the architectural program to demonstrate that the company is concerned with encouraging people to live together, relieving everyday pressure and bringing moments of pleasure during the workday. Currently, when many have already returned to the offices, environments like this have become increasingly essential to ensure the well-being of the employee, as well as improve their performance. + 19 In every casino, there’s much more than meets the eye. Although guests are typically only aware of what’s happening on a surface level, a casino’s ability to create a false sense of reality extends beyond the programming of slot machines and betting against the odds at the tables. It reaches far into every corner of the room and is designed in such a way, that their intentionality behind every flashing light, “cha-ching!” jackpot noise, smokey bar, and endless maze of slot machines all come together to place a bet against human psychology. They say there’s a reason why the house always wins, but what is it about the design of these spaces and the allure of the gambling table that makes visitors always come back for more? In every casino, there’s much more than meets the eye. Although guests are typically only aware of what’s happening on a surface level, a casino’s ability to create a false sense of reality extends beyond the programming of slot machines and betting against the odds at the tables. It reaches far into every corner of the room and is designed in such a way, that their intentionality behind every flashing light, “cha-ching!” jackpot noise, smokey bar, and endless maze of slot machines all come together to place a bet against human psychology. They say there’s a reason why the house always wins, but what is it about the design of these spaces and the allure of the gambling table that makes visitors always come back for more? + 4 Inaugurated recently, The Chimelong Theatre, a circus hall on the island of Hengqin, in Zhuhai, China, was conceived to replace the Chimelong Hengqin International Circus City, damaged by a typhoon in 2016. Imagined by Stufish Entertainment Architects, founded by the late Mark Fisher, the project is one of many permanent entertainment spaces designed by the studio in China. Inaugurated recently, The Chimelong Theatre, a circus hall on the island of Hengqin, in Zhuhai, China, was conceived to replace the Chimelong Hengqin International Circus City, damaged by a typhoon in 2016. Imagined by Stufish Entertainment Architects, founded by the late Mark Fisher, the project is one of many permanent entertainment spaces designed by the studio in China. Fosun Group hired Woods Bagot to transform commercial planning of Dahua, an 82-year-old historic textile mill, into China’s next retail and entertainment district. Located in Xi’an’s urban center, the site sits next to Daming Palace, the Tang Dynasty’s royal residence and a national heritage site which attracts thousands of tourists each year.  Fosun Group hired Woods Bagot to transform commercial planning of Dahua, an 82-year-old historic textile mill, into China’s next retail and entertainment district. Located in Xi’an’s urban center, the site sits next to Daming Palace, the Tang Dynasty’s royal residence and a national heritage site which attracts thousands of tourists each year.  + 5 North America’s largest classical repertory theatre company, the Stratford Festival revealed Hariri Pontarini Architects’ design for their new Tom Patterson Theatre at a town hall meeting last month. According to Antoni Cimolino, the Stratford Festival’s Artistic Director, the company desires a new facility that compares to distinguished theatres worldwide.  North America’s largest classical repertory theatre company, the Stratford Festival revealed Hariri Pontarini Architects’ design for their new Tom Patterson Theatre at a town hall meeting last month. According to Antoni Cimolino, the Stratford Festival’s Artistic Director, the company desires a new facility that compares to distinguished theatres worldwide.  As part of larger ElBaseetah Suburbs for Investment and Community Development S.A.E. RTNHB project in south Egypt; RTNHB will provide an entertainment and social space among Nubian people, their visitors, and guests. Funded by ECO Group, the site will be an attractive Nubian area, a spot of social interaction, cultural dialogue, and place for entertainment in front of Philae Temple. As part of larger ElBaseetah Suburbs for Investment and Community Development S.A.E. RTNHB project in south Egypt; RTNHB will provide an entertainment and social space among Nubian people, their visitors, and guests. Funded by ECO Group, the site will be an attractive Nubian area, a spot of social interaction, cultural dialogue, and place for entertainment in front of Philae Temple. Working in architecture is always a challenging experience in which you just never know what might happen next. That said, there are a number of things we can collectively relate to as a part of this industry. Here we've created a list of things we're all too familiar with—whether that relates to finishing projects, working with clients, or just dealing with people that totally don't even know what goes on in architecture. Which ones did we miss? Working in architecture is always a challenging experience in which you just never know what might happen next. That said, there are a number of things we can collectively relate to as a part of this industry. Here we've created a list of things we're all too familiar with—whether that relates to finishing projects, working with clients, or just dealing with people that totally don't even know what goes on in architecture. Which ones did we miss?