 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 73F. Winds S at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 73F. Winds S at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 7:52 pm August 19, 2024    DRIPPING SPRINGS — The Texas Hill Country — famous for its pristine streams, blooming wildflowers, star-filled night skies, and tucked-away small towns — is home to more than 3.8 million people and growing fast. Home to three of the fastest growing counties in the country, the Hill Country’s population is projected to grow to 5.2 million in the next seven years. Native flora and fauna that have called the region home for millennia — from beloved gray foxes and live oaks to delicate monarchs and milkweeds — are finding their habitats reduced as our human homes continually expand into their native ranges. As more and more people call the Hill Country home, many of the region’s most special qualities — like sweeping open spaces, clear flowing waters and starry night skies — are at risk of being loved to death and lost forever.  This spring, the Hill Country Alliance calls on anyone with a camera to share their view of this iconic region and its many inhabitants in the 2023 Hill Country Photo Contest, “Home in the Hill Country.” Now through May 31 entries can be submitted to HCA’s website www.hillcountry alliance.org/PhotoContest. Photographers of all ages and skill levels, from amateur to professional, are invited to participate in HCA’s 17th annual photography contest. Winners will receive cash prizes and their photos will appear in HCA’s 2024 Calendar. “In this year’s contest, we are looking for original photography that captures the vibrant beauty of our native landscapes, wildlife, and water resources of the Texas Hill Country,” an HCA spokesperson said in a press release. “Countless creatures call the Hill Country home, and beyond the wildlife and plants that reside here, we are also interested in seeing the people and communities that make up this special part of Texas. We particularly encourage photographers to consider submitting shots that feature the diversity of the Hill Country, its people, and its future.” Entering the photo contest is easy. Photos can be submitted online in just a few minutes by visiting HCA’s website www.hillcountryalliance.org/PhotoContest HCA’s annual photo contest spotlights the Hill Country’s unique region of diverse wildlife, pristine springs, sprawling landscapes, star-filled skies, multi-generational land stewards, historic towns and hidden oases. With a rapidly growing population and increasing development coming into the region, many of these special qualities are at risk of being lost forever. Winning photographs will be featured in HCA’s annual Texas Hill Country Calendar, which features stunning photography from each year’s photo contest. Both the photo contest and the calendar aim to highlight the beauty of the region, provide an informative resource on Hill Country conservation, and inspire folks to learn more and become involved in the issues important to keeping the natural resources of this unique region intact. The Hill Country Alliance is a nonprofit organization whose purpose is to raise public awareness and build community support around the need to preserve the natural resources and heritage of the Central Texas Hill Country. Visit www.hill countryalliance.org for more information.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would like to receive our breaking news alerts?  Signup today! If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: