We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. Table of Contents Table of Contents When airline travelers think about elite status, most focus on the loyalty programs offered by their favorite airline. While these airline perks can be valuable, alliance benefits enhance your flight experience when flying with partner airlines. Here's everything you need to know about Star Alliance Gold benefits. Travelers who've earned Star Alliance Gold elite status enjoy numerous benefits when flying partner airlines. These benefits are in addition to the perks you get based on your elite status with the airline. Here are the best perks available when you fly Star Alliance Gold on United and other member airlines. Priority airport check-in. Look for the Star Alliance Gold sign to skip the lines and check in quicker, where available. Priority baggage handling. Your bags receive priority handling, so they're among the first on and off the plane. This minimizes your wait at the airport when you land. Airport lounge access. Escape the crowds with complimentary entry for you and one guest in more than 1,000 airport lounges worldwide when flying a member airline. Lounge benefits vary by location, but most offer food and refreshments, free Wi-Fi, places to work and relax, and more. Priority boarding. Get on the plane faster by boarding with first-class and business-class passengers, regardless of your ticket class. Extra baggage allowance. The Star Alliance Gold baggage allowance provides an additional 44 lbs. (20 kg.) when weight limits apply or an extra piece of luggage when they don't. This benefit does not apply to all partner airlines or may only be available on connecting Star Alliance flights. Gold Track priority screening. At more than 150 locations, you'll move through airport security and customs more quickly by using exclusive priority lanes. Priority reservations waitlist. When your desired service class is unavailable when making a reservation, you'll receive priority access if seats open up. This benefit is not available when booking an award ticket. Priority airport standby. When you want to make changes, but the desired flight is full, you'll receive priority access to the standby list. However, benefits do not apply to award tickets. Heathrow Express upgrades. Get a free upgrade to Business First Class on the Heathrow Express when you purchase a standard class single or return ticket. » Learn more: The things Star Alliance is doing right With 26 member airlines, there are countless ways to earn Star Alliance Gold elite status. If you have elite status with a member airline, the Star Alliance website has a handy qualification tool that lets you know if you're eligible for Star Alliance Gold by selecting your airline and elite status level.  Let's look at the elite status necessary for qualification with two Star Alliance airlines based in the U.S. and Canada. » Learn more: Your guide to the Star Alliance MileagePlus members who've achieved Premier Gold and above in United's elite status program receive Star Alliance Gold elite status. To earn United Premier Gold, you must earn 8,000 Premier Qualifying Points (PQPs), or you can take 24 Premier Qualifying Flights (PQFs) while earning 10,000 PQPs. While you can earn PQFs and PQPs from crediting flights on partner airlines to United, you must take at least four flight segments on United or United Express to qualify for Premier status. » Learn more: The complete guide to United MileagePlus Air Canada members receive Star Alliance Gold benefits once they've achieved Aeroplan 50K status and above. Members can reach Aeroplan 50K status by spending $6,000 Status Qualifying Dollars (SQDs) and either flying 50 Status Qualifying Segments (SQSs) or 50,000 Status Qualifying Miles (SQMs). Star Alliance member airlines periodically offer promotions where you'll receive additional miles or elite status credits. Sign up for your favorite airline's newsletter and register for every promotion, even if you don't have immediate travel plans. Many of these promotions have limited registration windows that may not be available when you need to book a flight. When booking a flight with a Star Alliance airline, you can credit your flight to any other member. You can achieve higher elite status faster by crediting your flights to one airline. Depending on how much you fly, this strategy could earn you airline elite status and Star Alliance Gold benefits. The benefits available from Star Alliance Gold status may vary depending on how you paid for your flight. Cash fares generally unlock all benefits, while some benefits are unavailable on award flights. For example, flights paid for with miles do not receive priority standby if you need to change your flight schedule. Many airlines provide status match opportunities when you hold elite status with another airline or hotel. When you accept a status match challenge, you'll enjoy those elite status benefits for a period. After that, however, you must meet the promotion's requirements to extend the benefits past the trial period. For example, you may need to spend a minimum amount or fly a certain number of segments or miles to extend your elite status. » Learn more: The best time to status match each airline Marriott Bonvoy and Bilt Rewards also offer a status match opportunity with United MileagePlus. Marriott Bonvoy Titanium and Ambassador Elite members receive complimentary United MileagePlus Premier Silver elite status. And Bilt Rewards recently offered a 120-day trial of either Premier Silver or Gold status based on your Bilt status level. Star Alliance Gold status is generally tied to the airline's elite status that qualifies you for membership. One of the most accessible paths to Star Alliance Gold elite status is from Asiana Airlines. Travelers must earn 40,000 miles or take 50 flights with Asiana Airlines over 24 months to earn Asiana Club Diamond status for two years. And renewing Diamond status requires only 30,000 miles or 30 flights over the next two years. » Learn more: The best airline credit cards right now Star Alliance Gold offers additional benefits for travelers who hold elite status with one of the 26 participating airlines. These benefits are in addition to the perks included with your elite status and improve your travel experience when flying with a partner. Star Alliance Gold benefits provide airport lounge access, expedited check-in and security, extra baggage allowance, and more. While it can be challenging to place a value on these perks, Star Alliance Gold can save you money and time on your next flight. You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2024: Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card  Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve® Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card on Chase's website 1x-5x5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Chase's website 1.5%-5%Enjoy 5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service, and unlimited 1.5% cash back on all other purchases. Up to $300Earn an additional 1.5% cash back on everything you buy (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year) - worth up to $300 cash back! on Capital One's website 2x-5xEarn unlimited 2X miles on every purchase, every day. Earn 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, where you'll get Capital One's best prices on thousands of trip options 75,000Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that’s equal to $1,000 in travel. Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105