Thunderstorms early, then variable clouds overnight with still a chance of showers. Low 67F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 100%.  Locally heavy rainfall possible..
                                 Thunderstorms early, then variable clouds overnight with still a chance of showers. Low 67F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 100%.  Locally heavy rainfall possible.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 10:52 pm   Whittemore Community Culture Conservation and The Hunterdon Art Tour present poet and visual artist MaryAnn L. Miller at the launch her newest book of poetry from 5 t o 7 p.m. on Friday, June 2, at Howling Basset Books, 39 Old Turnpike Road, in the Oldwick section of Tewksbury Township. TEWKSBURY TWP. - Whittemore Community Culture Conservation and The Hunterdon Art Tour present poet and visual artist MaryAnn L. Miller at the launch her newest book of poetry from 5 to 7 p.m. on Friday, June 2, at Howling Basset Books, 39 Old Turnpike Road, in the Oldwick section of the township. Miller will be the guest at a special Salon des Artistes to present her new book, "Falling Into the Diaspora." This event is free and open to the public. "Falling Into the Diaspora" is more than a poetry collection, it's a book of poems - a long story plotted into poetry," said Maryland Poet Laureate Grace Cavalier. "This writer knows that structure is the way to grip us tight. Yes. Miller's breath is an every page-witty, painful. original. She has written a masterwork."     
Log In
 BE YOURSELF. We do not accept and will not approve
anonymous comments. Kindly add your full name and hometown to the
end of your comment.
Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.