Image Credit: AEW Darby Allin rang in the new year with a huge win and a new title, taking down Samoa Joe in a shocking win to become the newest TNT Champion. In a tough match between both superstars, Allin came ready to perform, and so did Joe. The two put on a back-and-forth battle for the fans, with Joe nearly coming away with a win early thanks to some huge attacks. However, Allin would eventually rally, and after escaping the Coquina Clutch late and getting locked in a chokehold, he ended things by hitting the Code Red and two Coffin Drops for the win. #AndNEW!!! @DarbyAllin is now a TWO TIME TNT Champion! What a moment to cap off an incredible first #AEWDynamite of 2023 here on TBS! pic.twitter.com/Hk0NzWNSm0 — All Elite Wrestling (@AEW) January 5, 2023 EXCLUSIVE! NEW TNT Champion @DarbyAllin, joined by @Sting and @thenickwayne, addresses the crowd in his hometown of Seattle, WA, after #AEWDynamite went off air! pic.twitter.com/sTFDeo5N6o — All Elite Wrestling (@AEW) January 5, 2023 For a full recap of how the match ended, check out below: Allin hugs Nick Wayne at ringside. Joe grabs Wayne by the throat during his entrance, prompting Allin to take the fight to the champion. They brawl up to the stage. Allin dives off a ladder onto Joe and seemingly hurts his knee. The match briefly winds up in the ring before Joe and Allin head back outside. Joe slams Allin onto the steel steps. The champion grounds Allin, who can barely walk once he gets some breathing room. Allin briefly rallies, but Joe continues to viciously target Allin’s leg. Joe hits a double knee breaker, and Allin is clearly in agony. Allin counters a Muscle Buster and gets a two count with a pin attempt. The champion goes for the Coquina Clutch. Allin escapes, but Joe traps him in a chokehold. Allin hits a Code Red and nails the Coffin Drop. He hits another Coffin Drop for the win. Winner: Darby Allin RELATED: AEW Dynamite Results (1/4/23): Tag Title Match, Bryan Danielson In Action, And More The post Darby Allin Wins TNT Title On 1/4 AEW Dynamite appeared first on Wrestlezone. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.