Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate insurance products to write unbiased product reviews. Allstate offers many of the most important personal insurance products, including homeowners insurance. It leads the market in discounts, but its base rates may not be as competitive as State Farm and other big competitors. Offers many coverage riders to enhance your homeowners coverage and many discounts. 815 A+ Allstate offers many of the most important personal insurance products, including homeowners insurance. It leads the market in discounts, but its base rates may not be as competitive as State Farm and other big competitors. Even if you've never purchased insurance from Allstate, you've heard its slogan. The catchphrase "you're in good hands" originated in 1950 when the Vice President's daughter was sick. A doctor used the expression to assure him that she would be okay. Since then, Allstate has provided customers with full insurance and other financial products. As the nation's second most prominent homeowners insurance provider, Allstate has a solid foundation with a reliable record of selling and servicing policies. Interested buyers can request a homeowners quote online, but all quotes go through an Allstate-employed insurance agent. Allstate Homeowners Insurance provides competitive pricing for many. However, all quotes are run by Allstate agents. As such, buyers cannot get quick estimates online. However, Allstate rates are based on the following factors: Living in a condo means you can expect lower rates as the dwelling coverage requirements are small. Many states charge an average of $20-$30 monthly for a condo policy. In a sample quote we obtained, Allstate offered $736,000 in dwelling coverage and $500,000 in liability coverage. All other coverages were set based on the dwelling coverage for a home in good condition. The policy broker down costs into annual and monthly expenses, including a lower rate for buyers who use the insurer's "easy pay" system. You can see a breakdown of our quote below. Get Homeowners Insurance Quotes Compare the best homeowners insurance companies with a quote from Insurify Homeowners Insurance» Allstate prefers all claims be filed online through "My Account." Once you log in, you can navigate to the correct section, upload your information and begin the claims process. From there, you'll work with an Allstate Claims Representative, who you can speak with throughout the process. If you're having trouble with your online portal, you have a couple of other options: The details of Allstate Homeowners Insurance's policies vary from state to state. But in all 50 states, the company offers four types of coverage options based on dwelling type: homeowners, condominiums, landlords, and manufactured homes. For a standard home policy, Allstate covers the following. Replacement cost value accounts for inflation and provides coverage for the cost of the item today. The cash value is just that, the item's current value. In general, replacement cost value provides higher coverage amounts and might cost more. But it could save you thousands of dollars in the event of a total loss and ensure you can replace all your lost items. Allstate's standard homeowners policies are competitive and comparable to other large insurance providers. However, insurance companies like USAA and California Casualty standardize additional coverage options like identity theft protection, replacement cost coverage, and water backup as part of primary coverages, along with coverage perks specific to the military, teachers, and other key demographics. The trade-off? Those companies have strict membership requirements, and Allstate doesn't. Allstate offers many coverage riders to enhance your homeowners coverage and many discounts. Bundling discounts for buyers using Allstate for auto, home, and other coverage is just the start. If you want extra coverage, Allstate offers the following optional riders. Offers many coverage riders to enhance your homeowners coverage and many discounts. 815 A+ Allstate offers many of the most important personal insurance products, including homeowners insurance. It leads the market in discounts, but its base rates may not be as competitive as State Farm and other big competitors. One of the perks that Allstate offers compared to other insurance providers is the ability to work one-on-one with an agent. To find an agent near you, use Allstate's agent search tool. To start a search, enter your zip code. From there, you can filter results based on years of experience, distance, average rating, and availability. Allstate offers a range of discounts such as its welcome, home buyer, easy pay, and multi-policy discounts. An Allstate agent can work with you to ensure you get all available discounts. If you renew your homeowners policy, check in with your Allstate agent to see if any new discounts are available. JD Power's most recent Home Insurance Study ranked Allstate below the segment average. However, JD Power's study features a short list of the top insurance companies. Online reviews indicate mixed experiences when it comes to the claims process. However, this may be resolved by working closely with your agent to ensure you understand your coverage. Allstate insurance agents will run quotes based on your home's replacement value and other factors, including all applicable discounts. Agents can lower homeowners insurance rates by reducing your coverage. However, Allstate professionals can advise you on strategic ways to improve rates without cutting essential coverage. See how Allstate compares to three other options for home insurance coverage: Progressive, Farmers, and State Farm. Progressive Homeowners Insurance is among the top ten providers based on the number of active home insurance policies in America. With competitive rates and a Name Your Price Tool that customers love, the company offers unique financial benefits and competitive pricing. More importantly, it offers online quoting and many bundling options for some customers. Progressive sells homeowners, auto, motorcycle, boat, and other niche insurance products. But if you have specific requirements for extra coverage, Progressive's optional riders are limited compared to Allstate. So while the Name Your Price Tool may help you set a lower price, you may sacrifice essential coverage due to the lack of comprehensive discounts. Allstate sells its insurance products exclusively through captive insurance agents. Progressive coverage can be purchased online or through broker agents (who can run quotes from multiple insurance providers to compare your options). Progressive Homeowners Insurance Review Farmers Homeowners Insurance offers every type of insurance you can imagine. The company provides a one-stop shop for all insurance needs, from pet insurance to business insurance. Homeowners may find Farmers policies to be more expensive than popular competitors. But even though Farmers tends to have higher premiums than Allstate, it offers additional discounts that might offset the cost. Apart from pricing, the main difference between policies is that Farmers insurance standardizes replacement cost coverage. So in the event of a claim, payout for replacements is based on current pricing rather than what the damaged property is worth. Any homeowner who has been through a claim without replacement cost coverage can tell you how impactful it is. It could be the difference between replacing your belongings and paying out-of-pocket to finish rebuilding your home. Allstate offers this coverage, but it comes at an extra cost. Farmers Homeowners Insurance Review State Farm Homeowners Insurance is the most popular insurance provider in the country (based on the number of active insurance policies), making it the only company with more policyholders than Allstate. Both companies are reputable providers with long histories and work exclusively with captive insurance agents (agents who can only quote for one company). In many ways, Allstate and State Farm are the most comparable providers on the list. The primary difference is that State Farm homeowners insurance standardizes extra coverage up to 20% if the home rebuild cost exceeds the policy maximum. Allstate customers pay extra for this coverage. Even though Allstate offers more discounts, State Farm's base premiums are less expensive, which evens out the pricing. State Farm Homeowners Insurance Review When creating this review, we considered the factors such as customer reviews, coverage options, customer service availability, pricing, available discounts, and optional add-on coverage. In addition, we compared Allstate to other long-standing insurance providers like USAA, Geico, Progressive, and State Farm. We also considered new online providers like Lemonade to create an unbiased review of Allstate's home insurance coverage options. With all this information combined, we generated ratings for many insurance providers like Allstate, giving buyers an idea of what to expect from individual companies and how Allstate compares to other big names. You can also learn more about Insider's homeowners insurance rating methodology. Offers many coverage riders to enhance your homeowners coverage and many discounts. 815 A+ Allstate offers many of the most important personal insurance products, including homeowners insurance. It leads the market in discounts, but its base rates may not be as competitive as State Farm and other big competitors. Jump to