Watch CBS News 
                          We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
                       
    By
                        
                      Matt Richardson
 
    Edited By
                        
                      Jennifer Earl
 
Updated on:  January 23, 2023 / 3:44 PM EST
          / CBS News
         When it comes to financial products and services, it's always worth doing your research. It's not always easy to choose the best plan and provider. And while a wrong decision can be withstood for some products, for others, it's critically important to get right. Life insurance is one of those products. While you can always adjust your life insurance coverage in the future, it may come at a cost. Depending on your changes, that cost may be exorbitant. The wrong choice when it comes to coverage or provider will also affect your loved ones and beneficiaries. For these reasons, it's critical to obtain the right policy type for the right amount with the best life insurance company. Fortunately, there are tried-and-true ways to do all three.  If you're in the market for life insurance then start by getting a free online price quote so you know exactly what to expect. If you're looking to find the best life insurance company then start with the following moves. Just like you wouldn't buy the first car you see, you shouldn't buy life insurance immediately. That doesn't mean that the first offer you get isn't the best. But guarantee that it is by shopping around for life insurance providers.  Different providers offer different policies and different perks and costs. Explore them all before committing to any one provider. Get quotes from all. Just make sure to do an apples-to-apples comparison.  For example, if you're looking to quote a 10-year term life insurance policy in the amount of $250,000 then make sure to get a quote from a second and third provider for the same length, type and amount of coverage. This will help you get a more accurate assessment. And you'll have peace of mind knowing that you've thoroughly researched the landscape. Get a price estimate here right now or use the table below to explore some top life insurance providers. The term "best" is relative. What's best for your life insurance needs may not be the best for someone else's and vice versa. Accordingly, a life insurance policy that can fit your budget - even if it's not the most robust - may be the best for you at this stage of your life. To get there you first need to know your budget. What can you comfortably afford and what would be out of your price range? By starting with a figure in your mind you can better find a life insurance company that works best for you. Life insurance - whether you're young and single or a senior and married - can serve many purposes and help you meet financial goals. Some policies, like whole life insurance, will even allow you to access a cash portion of the account to use while alive. But all of the options on the market will quickly become confusing if you don't first know what you're trying to achieve.  What exactly is your goal? Do you want a policy to pay be able to pay off debt while you're alive? Or do you simply want coverage in the event of your death? Do you want a $1 million policy to pay off a mortgage and any debt you leave to loved ones? Or are you a senior simply looking to cover end-of-life expenses? Understand why you want a policy first. By knowing your goals you'll better be able to find the best company. It's difficult to find the "best" of anything as that definition is relative to the individual. But if you're looking to secure a life insurance policy from the best company it helps to shop around, know your budget and understand your goals. You can get the process started by getting a free price quote here now.  Matt Richardson is the managing editor for the Managing Your Money section for CBSNews.com. He writes and edits content about personal finance ranging from savings to investing to insurance. 
© 2022 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.