NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
							browser that
							supports HTML5
								video Jane Krakowski has admitted she knows ‘nothing’ about the Ally McBeal reboot and hasn’t been approached to revisit her role yet. Running for five seasons between 1997 and 2002, the legal comedy drama series was created by David E. Kelley and starred Calista Flockhart in the title role as a lawyer working in the Boston law firm Cage and Fish. It received critical acclaim from early in its run, and by the time it ended, the show had been nominated by 34 Emmy Awards and 12 Golden Globes. The series also featured actors who would go on to become massive stars, including Greg Germann, Lucy Liu, Portia de Rossi and Robert Downey Jr. Throughout all five seasons Jane played Ally’s assistant Elaine Vassal, who also had a side hustle for inventing, including the infamous face bra which would stop sagging and wrinkles. It was first reported last year that a reboot was in the works and would follow a young Black woman who joins the law firm from the original series straight out of law school. The lead character is believed to be the daughter of Renée Raddick, Ally’s D.C. roommate. But while Jane has said she isn’t sure about many more details, she can’t wait to tune in. ‘I’m interested to see what they are planning to do in the revival of the show – I know nothing about it,’ she exclusively told Metro.co.uk. But she added that the show ‘obviously meant a lot to me’. ‘It was my first TV series and we were all newbies coming in and our lives changed during the time of that show,’ she explained. ‘It was very exciting to be part of a show that became a water cooler show and pop culture of the 90s. ‘I’m excited to see how they reinvent it for today’s audience and what it will mean for pop culture now moving forward.’ While Calista has been rumoured to have been approached to return to the role of Ally for the reboot, it has not been confirmed if any of the other original cast will be involved. After premiering in 1997, Ally McBeal was an instant hit, averaging around 11 million viewers each episode, with those numbers increasing by two million the following season. The times when Netflix's Unsolved Mysteries were actually solved James Bond star George Lazenby, 84, announces he's quitting acting in emotional statement Netflix criticised for removing episode featuring blackface from 00s TV series The Umbrella Academy was best at the beginning and its final season proves it After the show wrapped up, Jane went on to play Jenna Maroney in TV sitcom 30 Rock, and Jacqueline White in Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. She also appeared as Betty Rubble in The Flintstones In Viva Rock Vegas and unhappily married Dorie opposite Jude Law in Alfie., as well as in stage performances of Funny Girl, Nine and Guys and Dolls. The actress is also returning to the upcoming second season of Schmigadoon, the comedy-drama series that follows two New York doctors, Melissa (Cecily Strong) and Josh (Keegan-Michael Key) who wind up in a magical town called Schmigadoon, which is trapped in a Golden Age- style musical.  This time around they try and return, but instead stumble across the much darker city of Schmicago, which pays satirical homage to sexy, dark 1960s and 1970s musicals. In it, Jane plays Bobbie Flanagan, a parody of Billy Flynn from Chicago.  Ally McBeal is streaming on Disney Plus. The newly-crowned 'best' commuter spot is a city I'll never go back to What I Own: We renovated our £590,000 Tooting three-bed but it's getting too small for us We bought a mouldy narrowboat on Facebook Marketplace — it saves us £10,000 a year in rent Need a guarantor for your new rental home? Here's the lowdown on who to choose Cheapest UK city for first-time buyers revealed — but it's ‘bleak’ for some Schmigadoon season 2 is streaming from Wednesday on Apple TV Plus. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Daredevil actress responds after being recast for Disney Plus reboot Born Again

 

	MORE : Bryan Cranston confirms very serious Malcolm in the Middle reboot talks are happening and he’s ‘thrilled’

 



  Get us in your feed