GRADO reveals how Ally McCoist praised his impression - even though the Rangers legend got pelters from his friends over it. The wrestler saw a clip of him imitating the former striker on Scot Squad go viral earlier this year. But Grado - who played PC Hugh McKirkdy in the BBC Scotland series - was just delighted that his idol saw the funny side. He says: “I remember listening to Ally’s commentary one night when I was on WhatsApp to my pals saying count how many times he says, ‘make no mistake about it.’ “We all started playing McCoist bingo, like when he also says ‘brilliant’ and ‘I’ll tell you for nothing’ and all his other wee phrases. “So I did it on Scot Squad but I started to worry as soon as it went viral in case I was going to give Ally a complex or he might take it the wrong way. “But I kid you not, within an hour Ally DM’d me on Instagram saying he can’t stop watching it and thought it was absolutely magic. “He admitted he had been getting it tight in his group chat but still finished by saying that he loved the show and to ‘keep it up big man.’  "That was incredible because Ally McCoist was my ultimate idol growing up.” Grado finished off the eighth and final series of the comedy cop show with an hilarious body cam sketch which captured McKirkdy singing Ibrox anthem Follow Follow - without the “add ons” - on a Rangers supporters bus. He says: “Without showing off, I actually wrote that sketch about McKirkdy and all the stuff he gets up to on his own. “One of the bits I loved is when he’s caught having a pee but says ‘Aye, but you couldn’t see my tootle - that’s an Ayrshire word. “The only bit that got cut out is when McKirkdy buys a firestick off somebody and asks, ‘Has that got all the channels on it for nothing?’ “But we did well to get eight series out of it and I’m hoping we can come back for a Christmas special or something one day.” We pay for your stories and videos! Do you have a story or video for The Scottish Sun? Email us at scoop@thesun.co.uk or call 0141 420 5200  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.