By Sonia Horon For Dailymail.Com and Ashleigh Gray For Dailymail.Com   Published:  13:39 EDT, 1 January 2023   |  Updated:  18:07 EDT, 1 January 2023      137 View  comments  Angela Bassett's 16-year-old son Slater Vance issued an apology to Michael B. Jordan after receiving backlash for partaking in a viral TikTok trend of faking a celebrity death. In a since-deleted clip Slater filmed his parents' – Angela, 64, and Courtney B. Vance, 62 — reaction to the fake news that Wakanda Forever costar Michael B. Jordan died. After deleting the video Vance then shared an apology, stating, 'I would sincerely like to apologize for taking part in such a harmful trend.' Apology: Angela Bassett's son Slater Vance, 16, issued an apology to Michael B. Jordan after receiving backlash for partaking in a viral TikTok trend of faking a celebrity death; Slater pictured with Angela and dad Courtney B. Vance in 2022 He continued, saying, 'I apologize to Michael B. Jordan's entire family, his extended family and Michael directly as he is an idol of mine and taking part in a trend like this is completely disrespectful.' 'I don’t wish any bad ramifications of my actions upon his family nor my parents as they deserve none of the backlash.' 'I own this was a mistake and I hope this can be a teaching lesson to anyone else who uses social media as a tool and a source of entertainment to truly understand that your actions can have consequences that extend beyond you,' he added. 'Harmful trend': After deleting the original video Vance then shared an apology, stating, 'I would sincerely like to apologize for taking part in such a harmful trend' Owning up: 'I apologize to Michael B. Jordan's entire family, his extended family and Michael directly as he is an idol of mine and taking part in a trend like this is completely disrespectful'; Jordan Pictured 2022 He wrapped up the video saying, 'I apologize for any hurt that my actions might have caused Mr. Jordan or my parents or anyone else who could have been involved in this, and I am truly, truly and sincerely sorry.'  The original 20-seconds-long now-deleted clip showed him asking, 'Did you hear this: Michael B. Jordan dead at 35?' The Waiting to Exhale star was at a loss for words as she put her hand over her chest while her jaw dropped. A lesson: 'I own this was a mistake and I hope this can be a teaching lesson to anyone else who uses social media as a tool and a source of entertainment to truly understand that your actions can have consequences that extend beyond you,' he added Visceral reaction: In the original clip The What's Love Got to Do With It star had a horrified expression on her face after being told her co-star passed away Courtney could be heard saying, 'Stop it. You're playing,' as Angela rushed toward her teenage son repeating, 'Unh-uh.' The longtime couple had just returned from an outing and were checking in on their son before things took a turn. Dressed in a beige boiler jumpsuit, the silver screen siren asked where he ordered food from, to which her son replied casually, 'Chik-fil-a.' Friends and costars: Michael and Angela share a bond after performing together in Black Panther and the sequel Wakanda Forever; Pictured 2022 Bassett and Vance then began walking in the opposite direction before Slater stopped them, saying, 'Wait. Mom, Dad...' The What's Love Got to Do With It star had a horrified expression on her face as she set a water bottle she had been holding down. She reached for her son's phone before the snippet came to an abrupt end. The trending prank was particular unsavory because Angela dealt with the tragic loss of another Black Panther costar, Chadwick Boseman, not long ago. Grief: The trending prank was particular unsavory because Angela dealt with the tragic loss of another Black Panther costar, Chadwick Boseman, not long ago in 2020 Angela and Courtney also share a daughter named Bronwyn Vance, 16, their son's fraternal twin. The kids were welcomed via surrogate back in 2006, nine years after the couple tied the knot. The lovebirds penned a book together called Friends: A Love Story, which was published in 2007.  Family-of-four: Angela and Courtney also share a daughter named Bronwyn Vance, 16, their son's twin; Pictured 2017 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group