Subscribe Sofia Vergara – who has been a part of the America's Got Talent family since  2020 – may not be on the debut season of America's Got Talent: All Stars, but she is still surrounded by plenty of them! The star reunited with her fellow America's Got Talent judge Heidi Klum over the weekend, and the two delighted fans with a selfie from their reunion. What's more, they weren't alone in most of the photos, as some major stars also made appearances. WATCH: Sofia Vergara cleans her idyllic holiday home in a tropical bikini MORE: David Muir shares family photograph from time away with rarely-seen parents The on-and-off screen friends gathered in Los Angeles to celebrate the 25th anniversary of beauty cult-favorite Anastasia Beverly Hills, iconic for its brow products, and Sofia shared a glimpse of the star-studded event. The former Modern Family actress took to Instagram to share quite the collection of photos, and fans were thoroughly impressed with who she was hanging out with. MORE: Megan Fox sizzles in string bikini – and she's got blonde hair! The first one saw Heidi and Sofia posing alongside none other than Rita Wilson, Jessica Alba, and Priyanka Chopra, all huddled together and smiling or puckering their lips for the camera.  Talk about a star-studded event! The celeb sightings didn't stop there, and a subsequent photo sees the Columbian star kneeling on the floor of a stunning home signing a banner full of glamorized caricatures of the event attendees alongside Sharon Stone. MORE: NCIS star Pauley Perrette looks amazingly different with blonde locks in throwback MORE: Charles Spencer shares astounding look at favourite room inside Princess Diana's former home The star-studded selfies really did not stop coming, and another one sees the AGT duo again posing next to former Victoria's Secret model Alessandra Ambrosio and television personality Maria Menounos. Heidi and Sofia are good friends IRL – and hilarious "We love you @anastasiasoare happy anniversary!!!" Sofia wrote alongside a star emoji, and fans promptly took to the comments to gush about the Instagram post. "Look at all these strong women, love!" one fan wrote, as others said: "All the best women in a frame," as well as: "So much beauty together, what's going on!!" plus another fan added: "Iconic." Read more HELLO! US stories here Like this story? Sign up to our newsletter to get other stories like this delivered straight to your inbox.  By entering your details, you are agreeing to HELLO! Magazine User Data Protection Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. For more information, please click here.  In partnership with 111SKIN