It’s King Charles’ big day — but the children of Prince William, 40, and Kate Middleton, 41, didn’t get the memo. Their youngest son, Prince Louis, arrived with them as they made their way to the coronation of King Charles III and Queen Camilla on the morning of May 6. Louis, 5, gave a cute wave to onlookers from his car as he and his family were the last to arrive at Westminster Abbey for the ceremony. As for George, 9, he was given the special task of being one of his grandfather’s Pages of Honor, having held onto his red robe as the 74-year-old monarch walked into the church.  He joined the other pages — Nicholas Barclay, Lord Oliver Cholmondeley, both 13 and Ralph Tollemache, 12 –, the children of a few noble families in England.  Elsewhere, Louis and his sister Princess Charlotte walked in with their parents and held hands as they strolled into the 1,000-year-old church. Little Louis, soon spotted yawning, was then whisked away by his nanny after entering the Abbey. He later returned to sit alongside his sister, Princess Charlotte, 8, to sing the national anthem, “God Save The King.” Following the religious ceremony at the abbey, working royals appeared on the balcony of Buckingham Palace to wave to their adoring public. Louis and Charlotte were spotted watching the crowd — as well as the coronation flypast — alongside their parents, Princess Anne, Charles, Queen Camilla, as well as Prince Edward and his wife, Sophie. While Louis looked a bit sullen, Charlotte seemed to be happy to view the military planes fly over the Palace. George who will now be second in line for the throne, his sister, Princess Charlotte and the mischievous Louis are growing up in the spotlight — and have delighted royal watchers with so many endearing moments.  They include friendly waves from the balcony, handshakes with dignitaries and even tot tantrums. Their uninhibitedness and innocence provide a dose of relatability among the pomp and circumstance of royal events.  Last summer, during Queen Elizabeth II’s Platinum Jubilee, Louis, then 4, was photographed displaying a full range of emotions, from frustration to defiance.  During a ceremonial flyover, Louis put his hands over his ears and screamed, while his great-grandmother and mother tended to him.  But when it came to funny faces, an animated Louis was just warming up.  On the final day of the Platinum Jubilee, the rambunctious tot was caught on camera in a series of candid moments that included sticking out his tongue and waving his fingers at his mother, shushing her, and grinning while sitting on his grandfather’s lap. Big sister Charlotte is no slouch when it comes to commanding the cameras, although she is less known for goofy faces and more for waving to the public. This goes back to the Trooping the Colour event in 2016, held to mark her great-grandmother’s 90th birthday.  While on the balcony, baby Charlotte, 13 months, wearing a pink dress and resting in her mother’s arms, waved while her brother, then 3, looked ready for bedtime. And she melted hearts after she turned around and waved to the cameras as her father led her and George into the hospital to see baby brother Louis after he was born in 2018. When Charlotte was born, George and his father were photographed in matching blue sweaters, and the proud big brother did the same: waved to photographers.  The heir even managed to steal the spotlight during a 2016 visit from then-President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama.  According to William’s spokesperson, Prince George was allowed to stay up past his bedtime to meet the first family. He greeted them in a white bathrobe and smart pajamas.  A snapshot shows the cherubic tot shaking hands with Obama, who is crouching down to greet him. In another snap, he was riding a rocking horse, which was a gift from the Obamas. These moments have been particularly welcome as the battles between Prince Harry and the rest of the Windsor clan have grown ugly, spilling over for public consumption with the publication of his memoir “Spare,” the Sussexes’ explosive interview with Oprah in 2021, and the couple’s Netflix docuseries. The Cambridge children are undoubtedly a palate cleanser.  Advertisement