sportsRangers By  Evan GrantRangers beat writer/insider By  Evan GrantRangers beat writer/insider 6:23 PM on Feb 18, 2023 CST SURPRISE, Ariz. – Nothing about turning the page from 2021 to 2022 was familiar for Cory Seager. New team. New home. New coaches. New, forced offseason routine, which consisted of not being in contact with any of the staff for three months. When he finally got to spring training in early March, he was breathless already. On Saturday, walking into a now familiar clubhouse, he was able to exhale easily before answering. He will do sprints in spring training, but he won’t have to sprint through it. “I think it’s a world of difference,” Seager said. “You get to talk through things and figure out what to expect and what we’re going to do and how we’re going to push through it instead of showing up and going: ‘Hey, we got to get ready for a season. How do we figure out what we are trying to do?’ Be the smartest Rangers fan. Get the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy “Last year, we were trying to do it all at once: Physically get ready, play games, everything. Last year was so accelerated with new faces and everything, too. Spring was tough just trying to fit everything in a short amount of time. I think it was a bad recipe for trying to be prepared with a new team and new people. It was just too fast.” And then there was one other “new” thing to deal with: Losing. That was as difficult a circumstance as anything. With all eyes on him and Marcus Semien, both got off to slow starts and the team even slower. The Rangers were seven games below .500 two weeks into the season, playing from behind all year. They reached .500 for a day at the end of May. And then everything went downhill from there. Seager did end up hitting a career-high 33 homers, but was off his game across the board. A career worst .245 batting average. Ditto his OBP (.317). He finished with .772 OPS, above the league average, but the worst for a full year of his career. He had a .744 OPS in 26 games during an injury-plagued 2018 season. It was a lot. But it’s it in the past. He’s in a clubhouse that is now familiar to him with a pitching staff that has been upgraded after a fully “normal” offseason. “In the beginning of the offseason, you definitely go through those things [replaying the year],” Seager said. “I think now it’s already in the history book. I think now it’s just preparing for a season like always. There’s no real adjustments on that. You’re just trying to get ready for the year this spring.” Find more Rangers coverage from The Dallas Morning News here. Click or tap here to sign up for our Rangers newsletter. Evan Grant, Rangers beat writer/insider. Evan has covered the Rangers since 1997. He has twice been named one of the top 10 beat writers in the country by the AP Sports Editors. His passions outside of covering baseball are his wife, Gina, his two step kids, two crazy dogs & barbecue. Let's not discuss the cat. Evan graduated from Georgia State University, but oddly is a Georgia fan. 