New York Yankees outfielder Harrison Bader has been in touch with hitting coach Dillon Lawson about how to get even better in 2023.Andrew Mills | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com NEW YORK — It was about as ideal as an offseason day as it could have been for Harrison Bader. He visited Yankee Stadium early in the day. Then the Yankees center fielder traveled to Liebman’s Deli in the Bronx — just five minutes from where he graduated from Horace Mann School. While he was there, the 28-year-old slammed some pastrami with chef Marcus Samuelsson for the YES Network’s show “Home Plate” after getting a behind-the-scenes look at the kitchen and the deli counter. BUY YANKEES TICKETS: STUBHUB, VIVID SEATS, TICKETSMARTER, TICKETMASTER Bader spoke with NJ Advance Media for several minutes after the lunch: How’s your offseason going? Bader: Offseason is great. Got a lot of work. Got some good quality family time with some friends. Everything is good. Just getting ready for a championship season in 2023. What are your workouts like right now? Bader: It kind of changes month to month. A lot of it was straight-up working out. Now it’s more intensely hitting and backing off the working out a bit. Just getting that balance of getting back into that swinging shape and that running shape. Just on the recovery side, dealing with different parts of the body now. It’s simple but it’s a routine. It’s trending more toward baseball activity now. Is this a different offseason for you coming off the plantar fasciitis injury? Bader: It was initially, kind of just had to take some time off when the season ended. That was kind of tricky because I want to stay active. I don’t want to overdo it. But I want to stay active. So, the first couple of months, a little tricky. But now I’m in a good spot. I feel great. No pain, no discomfort. Really just about maintaining that. What are your conversations like with hitting coach Dillon Lawson right now? What does he want you to focus on? Bader: Same as it always is. I feel like I’m not trying to reinvent the wheel. A lot of it is sharpening up your pitch selection. Baseball is tough because it’s more about what you don’t swing at and maybe waiting out an at-bat or taking that borderline pitch and not putting it in play, whatever it may be. Just continue to sharpen that pitch selection. From the physical standpoint, the bat speed and the hand speed — I’m in a great spot. He’s happy with all that. He wants us to continue to sharpen up your eye, which I feel like we’re all trying to do every single year, with or without any coaching. Want to bet on MLB? See the best NJ Sports Betting sites What are you looking forward to most about spring training? Bader: I’ve never been to Tampa. Well, I’d been there once — we played there a couple of years ago. But I was on the other team. Just a new environment, meeting new faces, a couple of new teammates. I’m just excited for the freshness of everything that’s to come. I’m just excited to be myself and bring what I bring to a lineup, to a team, to that clubhouse. I know I can help this organization win and I’m just excited to see how it shakes out. What’s it going to be like playing with Carlos Rodon? You faced him a bit when you were with the Cardinals. Bader: I have a little experience against him. He had a great year. Nothing’s handed to you in this game, so the contract he received — the years, everything, he worked for that. He earned that. I’m excited to see what that looks like in the clubhouse. Any time you add a guy who’s got such good stuff like that with that mentality, you always want to welcome winning players. I think the front office did an amazing job of collecting more winning players and more winning talent. I’m just excited to play behind him. Please subscribe to us now and support the local journalism YOU rely on and trust. Brendan Kuty may be reached at bkuty@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices