MLB TORONTO — Phil Maton sat at the site of the most surprising accomplishment of his baseball career, straddling the right-field foul line at Rogers Centre while awaiting his throwing partner prior to Wednesday’s game. Mementos from the reliever’s years in MLB decorate the bar inside his offseason home. But the only encased baseball among them is the one he struck 67.1 mph and 216 feet to this exact spot on May 25, 2019. Advertisement Maton’s eight-month journey from fracturing his hand in frustration to dark-horse American League All-Star contender is well-documented. Yet his most, ahem, memorable moment is not. Memories from it flooded back throughout this four-game series. A text message from his agent reminded him of the “good mojo” Maton has in Toronto and at the Rogers Centre. Maton exited the team bus before the series-opener on Monday, passed a batting cage outside the visiting clubhouse and, for a moment, was transported back in time to the moment when he was called upon to hit. “Saw that little net with a tee,” Maton said. “I hit a few balls into that net and that was my warmup to hit.” Minutes later, with a swing that went against everything hitting coaches teach, Maton blooped a run-scoring single off Blue Jays reliever Sam Gaviglio, sending the San Diego Padres dugout into delirium while the deliberately stone-faced reliever fought back the urge to break one of his on-field rules. “I’m pretty sure I was doing everything to not smile,” Maton said on Wednesday. “I was pretty stoked about that. It was a really cool moment for me.” Reliving it, however, did produce a few wide smiles. Hitting coach Troy Snitker seemed unsure why he’d be asked to review an anonymous San Diego Padres swing before Wednesday’s game. But he gamely obliged, and squinted close to see the hitter’s face. “Oh my God,” Snitker said while cradling an iPhone, “is that Phil Maton?” Snitker rewound the video twice once he received confirmation it was. “Open stance. Toe tap. Step in the bucket,” Snitker exclaimed. “This is the hitting style of, step into the bucket to left and flip it into right field.”  Maton acknowledged he watches the at-bat “occasionally” and will share the story with rookie position players who come up and collect their first major-league hit. Maton is part of their fraternity and doesn’t want that forgotten. Maton had one major-league at-bat before blooping the single against Gaviglio on an otherwise nondescript Saturday afternoon. San Diego bludgeoned the Blue Jays 19-4, the sort of game ripe for a middle reliever to take an at-bat, even in an American League ballpark. Advertisement With an 11-run lead after seven innings, the Padres removed Manny Machado from the game and summoned Maton to pitch. Greg Garcia, the team’s designated hitter, replaced Machado at shortstop. San Diego lost its designated hitter, forcing Maton into Machado’s position as the three-hole hitter. Maton needed nine pitches to record his three outs. His spot in the batting order was due up eighth in the eighth inning. Maton entered the visiting clubhouse certain he would not hit. The inning dragged on and Padres manager Andy Green informed him otherwise. The team needed another inning from Maton, who hadn’t yet emerged as a high-leverage option. Maton scurried into the batting cage to take his cracks off a tee. He did not take one at-bat during his four-year collegiate career at Louisiana Tech. Coaches “took the bat away” from him after he took some batting practice during his first fall on campus. Before the universal designated hitter arrived, National League starting pitchers always took rounds of batting practice to stay somewhat competent. Low-leverage middle relievers, however, weren’t expected to do the same. “We’d show up and the first couple days (in spring training), bunting is one of your stations. First, you’d go field bunts and then you’d actually go bunt,” Maton said. “But it kind of got to the point where, if you were in a situation that you didn’t throw leverage and threw multiple innings, they started packing bats and helmets and gloves for you because there’s situations where you have to hit.” Maton grabbed a batting helmet and gloves from that pile. He used one of Joey Lucchesi’s bats to face Gaviglio, a three-pitch right-hander who sat in the mid to high 80s with a sinker, slider and curveball. His first two sinkers against Maton arrived at 88.5 mph and 89.3 mph. Maton watched each one whiz in for strikes. Advertisement With the exception of his one at-bat earlier that season against the Diamondbacks, “I hadn’t seen pitching since high school. I want to see a pitch at least, remember what it looks like coming in and try to time it up, do my best to swing as hard as I can and somehow be on time,” Maton said. Gaviglio gave him an 88.4 mph sinker. Maton was nowhere near on time. He swung late and somehow sliced the baseball into right field. Statcast assigned it a .630 expected batting average. Maton bounded up the first-base line and tracked the fly ball’s trajectory. “I made contact, and you’re kind of surprised initially, but seeing it bloop into that triangle between the infielder and outfielders was pretty cool,” Maton said. “A little late on that 80-something that I saw. It was really weird.” Maton’s teammates gathered on the top step of the third-base dugout to celebrate. Machado stood outside and asked for the baseball that now sits in Maton’s home bar. The entire team urged Maton to participate in its “chop” celebration — the club’s post-base hit hand signal that season. “I did the chop to the best of my ability,” Maton said. “I don’t think it was very skilled compared to some of those guys.” Seems fitting for this entire sequence. “I’ve had a few more at-bats since, unfortunately,” said Maton, who is 1-for-5 as a major-leaguer. “But it was nice to at least check that box. Kinda cool to have a big league hit.” (Top photo of Maton’s hit: Tom Szczerbowski / Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Chandler Rome  is a Staff Writer for The Athletic covering the Houston Astros. Before joining The Athletic, he covered the Astros for five years at the Houston Chronicle. He is a graduate of Louisiana State University. Follow Chandler on Twitter @Chandler_Rome