MLB HOUSTON — During a recent conversation about the Mets’ deep-pocket disappointments, Francisco Lindor, the front-facing star shortstop emblematic of his team’s struggles, stretched the syllables of his words as if willing them into existence. “It’s going to get better,” he said in a calm tone. “I truly believe that we will get better.” Advertisement When? How? Those are the questions that linger over the most expensive baseball team of all time. Last winter, with the Mets coming off a playoff appearance, Steve Cohen shocked the sport’s other owners by investing approximately $445 million, including tax penalties, to do more winning. It was the clearest sign yet of the billionaire owner’s resolve to reimagine a franchise that had long carried the stigma of being second rate. But through the first two-plus months of the season, the Mets have instead done more losing. From a long-distance view, the Mets’ failure has offered a reminder that it takes more than money to build a winner. Get closer, and the downturn reeks of disappointment. In the National League East, the Mets (34-40) trail the Braves by a whopping 13 1/2 games, their largest gap from first place on the first day of summer since 2003. Recently, some veterans have surmised privately that winning the division already appears unlikely, though those same players expressed a strong belief that as long as they stay healthy, they could turn things around and make the playoffs. Inside the clubhouse, the players who would be responsible for a turnaround count up the remaining games, point to the successful track records surrounding them and expect things to change. “This club?” one veteran player said with a raised eyebrow. “Yeah, definitely; we have the talent.” As desperate as the optics look, players say that the expanded playoffs and recent history justify maintaining some hope. The Mets don’t need to look far for examples. Last season, the Phillies once were eight games below .500, but mounted a nine-game winning streak in early June, snatched a playoff spot and won the pennant. In 2021, the Braves needed until August to get over .500, but built a nine-game winning streak that month, captured the division and won the World Series. And in 2019, the Nationals once fell a dozen games under .500, waited until the final week of June to sustain a winning record and yet hoisted the Commissioner’s Trophy. When asked recently what’s required for New York to accomplish something similar, Scherzer didn’t hesitate. Advertisement “It’s all the little things,” said Scherzer, now one of the Mets’ older co-aces, who also experienced Washington’s run. Then he rattled a bunch off: holding runners, fielding balls cleanly, avoiding violations … His list went on. To emphasize his point, Scherzer added with the intensity behind his voice that he’s known for, “Every. Little. Thing.” “You start flipping those around,” Scherzer said, “and it’s amazing how the big stuff starts happening.” But is it too late? In a 101-win season last year, the Mets played a crisp, heady brand of baseball. In a trying follow-up act with mostly the same cast of characters, the Mets have somehow often looked different; errors and mental mistakes have defined several of their worst losses. In both seasons, the Mets have been led by the same person: 67-year-old manager Buck Showalter. Over two-plus decades as a manager, Showalter has built his reputation on being a stickler for details. In the dugout, he charts specifics in a tiny black notebook. He’s someone who sees something and considers how it impacts everything. Around the game, his teams carry an expectation to do all the little things. But there’s one problem. This team — his team — hasn’t. The Mets have been outscored in the first inning of games this year, 54-21. They haven’t performed in any facet of the game — pitching, fielding or hitting — particularly well. Without much of an identity, it’s hard to see what the Mets could lean on to power any potential string of success. The Mets say their poor play isn’t a reflection of leadership. They support Showalter, last year’s Manager of the Year who has received criticism for his bullpen decisions, his lineup construction and the team’s overall poor play. Star players like Lindor say they love playing for the longtime manager because of his ability to communicate and build relationships along with his preparation and smarts for baseball. Other key contributors offer similar sentiments. After needing to claw his way toward more consistent playing time, the always straight-shooting veteran outfielder Tommy Pham recently said, “He truly needs to be a part of this game because of the knowledge he has. It’s amazing. And the one thing you need to have from a player’s standpoint is the respect of your players; that is just as important. When you’re honest, you get that.” Advertisement A stroll through the Mets clubhouse at Citi Field before games would make it hard to believe the team has underperformed to such a degree. When players occupy the room, they shoot pool before games, fill out crossword puzzles together and carry smiles. It’s only after the games, following another loss, when things tend to get quiet. “There are guys in this clubhouse who are culture-driven, who hold players accountable,” Lindor said. “We have it here.” Added Pham, “That’s not lacking here.” “We know in here who the leaders are and we know how everyone is supposed to go about their business,” Brandon Nimmo said. “There’s an accountability in here that we look for. And everyone knows that who comes into this clubhouse.” When the Mets re-signed Nimmo over the winter to an eight-year deal, some around the club wondered if the homegrown center fielder would be named captain. Nimmo ranks as the club’s longest tenured player. His aww shucks demeanor, earnestness shown by running to first base on walks and hunger every season to improve has endeared him to many. It’s also earned him plenty of respect from peers. However, the 30-year-old from Wyoming said it wasn’t until last year until he fully felt comfortable speaking up in the clubhouse and corralling the group for bonding moments as a leader. Instead of someone being designated captain, players say they follow the lead of a group, which includes Pete Alonso and Justin Verlander, Scherzer, Lindor and Nimmo. “Everything off the field and everything in this clubhouse is being taken care of for guys to prepare themselves in a way that will produce wins on a consistent basis,” Nimmo said. “That’s a statement I agree with,” Lindor said. “When we show up, everyone is prepared. When we take the field, we are ready for the game that day. We are. We are. We are. Advertisement “It’s one of those where it’s almost hard to explain. Yeah, there were games where we’ve been flat. I agree with that. And there other games where we’ve been with a lot of energy and lost the game. That’s just part of the season, part of the grind. There have also been other games where we don’t feel like ourselves, someone hits a home run and we win four to nothing. It’s been that type of year.” Recently, veterans inside the Mets clubhouse have applauded Lindor for the way the star shortstop has readily made himself available to the media and handled questions. Conversation topics have typically covered large-scale concerns. Why have his own struggles been so pronounced? Why can’t the team win? When is it going to change? “He holds himself accountable, so how can you not follow suit?” one player said. Another added, “He’s a class act.” Before a recent road game, Lindor looked to his right, a couple lockers over, and checked on rookie third baseman Brett Baty “Baty, you good?” Lindor asked aloud.“How are you doing today?” Lindor seems to be looking out for teammates when the Mets lose as well. He often speaks for the group, usually striking a mix of positivity and accountability. In his third season in New York after blossoming as one of the game’s best shortstops in Cleveland, Lindor has appeared more comfortable with handling criticism in the country’s largest media market. He leaned on former Mets stars Carlos Delgado and Carlos Beltran for advice. But similar to 2021, his first year with the Mets, he has struggled to find consistency at the plate. In front of cameras he’s operated differently than the guy who once gestured a thumbs down to fans who booed him. He cares. He’s sensitive to winning and wanting to perform. That hasn’t changed. These days, he’s found more constructive ways to show it. Lindor has handled things maturely, but his on-field struggles underscore a widespread theme surrounding the Mets: A failure to repeat prior performances and an insistence based largely on track record that they somehow one day will. Advertisement Against right-handed pitchers, Lindor owns just a .654 OPS, an issue that hadn’t previously impacted the switch hitter. In his career, he has a .800 OPS from the left side and a .831 OPS from the right side. While Lindor has offered power and come through in some clutch moments with 14 home runs and 50 RBIs, his strikeout rate has increased to 22 percent, which would be the highest of his career, leading to a curiously low .295 on-base percentage. After posting a 126 OPS+ last year, through 312 plate appearances Lindor carries a 100 OPS+ in 2023. Rival scouts have a hard time making sense of the struggles. They say the 29-year-old is not the type of talent they’d expect to age early; he had always done too many things so well. People around the Mets don’t envision Lindor’s problems, particularly against right-handers, as a long-term issue. It was just last year when he finished with a .789 OPS against them. With the help of the coaching staff, he has worked on finding his swing and remedying issues against certain zones where pitchers have steadily attacked him. Through 58 plate appearances in June, Lindor has gone 8-for-48 with three home runs. His power and quality defense have helped, but the Mets pay him an average annual value of $31.9 million for more. Several other players holding important roles such as Starling Marte and Jeff McNeil have also underperformed. Aside from Nimmo and Alonso, the Mets’ regulars have failed in major ways to replicate last year’s successes. But at the top of the Mets’ issues resides the struggles of their pitching staff. Last week, Scherzer stood along the dugout rail and posed for a photographer. Seeing this on his walk back from the outfield, Verlander grinned.“Yeah!” he teased his teammate, “Very sexy!” At Verlander’s hollering, Scherzer just smiled. Back in spring training, some around the team wondered whether they could coexist after a competitive rivalry during their shared younger years with the Detroit Tigers. So much for that concern. The Mets just need them to pitch better. Before the season, upon analyzing a rotation featuring Scherzer and Verlander, some prognosticators ranked it baseball’s best. The Mets shared that confidence. Advertisement Scherzer, 38, was coming off a terrific first season with the Mets. Verlander was coming off the greatest statistical season ever authored by a starting pitcher in their age-39 season. However, leaning on older pitchers — no matter who they are or what they’ve previously done — comes with an inherent catch: they carry a higher risk of regression. The Mets’ rotation has produced a 5.01 ERA, better than only four teams. The underlying numbers don’t look promising, either. High home run and walk rates leave little room for flukiness as an explanation. An inability to pitch beyond the fifth inning has led to a cascading effect on the Mets’ bullpen. If the Mets intend to make a run, they are going to need to acquire relief help by the trade deadline. Mostly, though, they need Scherzer (4.04 ERA/4.22 FIP) and Verlander (4.50 ERA/4.34 FIP) to look more like the Scherzer (three Cy Young awards) and Verlander (three Cy Young Awards) that each earns $43 million from the Mets this season. Of course, the Mets’ problems predate the season’s first pitch. Cohen’s shiny and expensive machine got dented and dinged before he ever pulled it out of the garage. Weeks before Opening Day, Edwin Diaz, baseball’s highest-paid closer, required surgery after injuring his knee during an on-field celebration at the World Baseball Classic. From there, the Mets have yet to find the gas pedal. A month ago, players chalked up the malaise to inconsistent start times, inconsistent routines, more time on the road, needing to make quicker decisions because of the pitch clock, some injuries and just flat-out getting beat. They took the stance that when the pitching faltered, the hitting looked fine and when the hitting faltered, the pitching looked fine. Cliché, but true. Still. They’ve yet to find synchrony. The good teams have. In late May, some veteran players said the adversity would make them better equipped to face more challenges ahead. They conceded, however, that only time would tell. June has proven to be a tough month. As Nimmo put it, “In this game, a lot of the time, it’s just either you’re playing well or you’re not.” As the Mets approach the midway point of the season, it’s getting harder and harder to see the flickers of a winning team. The unsteady source of light comes from the past. And over time, it continues to fade. The Mets arrived in Texas knowing how important a series win would be against the defending World Series champion Astros. They didn’t expect a sweep. They focused on winning two out of three. From there, they could stack more series wins. The idea is to win, say, four in a row. That’s how teams climb out of this kind of spiral, veterans say. But the Mets failed to do any of that. Fresh off a series loss to the Cardinals, the National League’s worst team, the Mets beat the Astros only once. On Wednesday, they lost the rubber game, 10-8, because of familiar problems: a first-inning deficit, bad starting pitching and too much sloppy play. Advertisement In theory, the players’ hopes for a spirited run sound cogent; the recent past shows having ace pitchers and a pesky lineup can turn late-blooming regular-season teams into surprise championship contenders. In reality, the roster GM Billy Eppler constructed has yet to prove themselves worthy of such faith. So far, Cohen has shown restraint from ordering change. He hasn’t fired the general manager, manager or the coaches. Nevertheless, the same big questions loom over an organization on pace for an embarrassing level of failure. How much longer until anything changes? Does anything change? (Top photo of Francisco Lindor: Todd Kirkland / MLB Photos via Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Will Sammon  is a staff writer for The Athletic, covering the New York Mets and Major League Baseball. A native of Queens, New York, Will previously covered the Milwaukee Brewers and Florida Gators football for The Athletic, starting in 2018. Before that, he covered Mississippi State for The Clarion-Ledger, Mississippi’s largest newspaper. Follow Will on Twitter @WillSammon