We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports  5 July 2024 — Corporate report A snapshot of the progress made by Government Office for Technology Transfer (GOTT) between 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. 12 April 2024 — News story In this film the Met Office describe how they created their own Knowledge Asset Management Strategy, guided by the Rose Book. 30 April 2024 — News story In this film the Geospatial Commission explains how they used funding and advice from GOTT to explore new uses for their National Underground Asset Register.  2 May 2024 — News story This animation explains the process of Technology Transfer and how it makes the most of Knowledge Assets to deliver social or economic benefits. 27 March 2024 — News story The guidance has been updated to include the most recent information, and to improve usability of the document. 12 February 2024 — News story Now in its third year the grant fund has awarded a total of £10.3 million of funding to 110 successful projects. 

          See all latest documents
        
 GOTT supports the UK public sector to unlock the potential of its knowledge assets to deliver value to the UK economy and society. Knowledge assets are intangible assets such as research and development, intellectual property (IP), data and know how. GOTT is part of the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology. 

              Read more about what we do
            
 
      The following links open in a new tab
     Email 
GOTT@dsit.gov.uk
 
      Our Personal information charter explains how we treat your personal information.
     Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      