BROOMFIELD, Colo., Oct.  10, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Alpine IQ is excited to announce the debut of Voice Drop, a first-of-its-kind messaging channel in the industry. This groundbreaking solution empowers businesses to send voice memos directly to their customers through phone calls and voicemails. More than just a tool, Voice Drop is about forging genuine connections. It ensures every communication not only effectively reaches its intended audience but also leaves a lasting impression. Voice Drop, the latest addition to Alpine IQ’s omnichannel messaging offerings, aims to maximize the initial 5-7 minutes that retailers typically spend with in-store customers. By promoting long-term engagement, it paves the way for a lifetime of repeat visits, transactions, and meaningful communications. Businesses can choose to upload their own recording or leverage the latest in AI to convert text-to-speech that adapts every word, ensuring the tone, language, and accent perfectly align with their audience's preferences. Beyond its core capabilities, Voice Drop presents a suite of features tailored to meet diverse business requirements. With its streamlined campaign setup, instant rewards delivery upon call receipt, and detailed campaign performance insights, Voice Drop offers a unique advantage. Its commitment to compliance and flexibility in message creation underscore a dedication to authenticity, emphasizing the human touch in digital interactions. Nicholas Paschal, co-founder and CEO of Alpine IQ states, “Digital communication often feels impersonal. Voice Drop seeks to bridge the gap, bringing back the authenticity of human connection. It’s not just about delivering messages; it’s about resonating with the listener and leaving a positive impression.” Voice Drop surpasses the confines of smartphone-only messaging, ushering in a new era of inclusive customer communication. By connecting with every customer, regardless of device type, Voice Drop overcomes limitations often faced by traditional methods. This ensures a broader reach, accommodating those who might find standard digital interfaces challenging. The platform's intuitive design considers all users, making sure that communication is not just more expansive, but also more accessible. This commitment underscores the importance of making every customer feel valued and understood, strengthening the bond between businesses and their varied clientele.
		  About Alpine IQ Alpine IQ empowers businesses in all industries by providing customer-focused technology to help retailers and brands of all sizes and industries resolve growth challenges and generate revenue. The company provides customers with the most extensive suite of tools for marketing, data ops, loyalty, and analytics. Media Contact:Alesia AndersonPR for Alpine IQalesia.anderson@alpineiq.com  Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks