
  Virgin Media customers have reported issues with their emails for a second time in less than 24 hours this morning (Tuesday, June 20). 
 
  Downdetector UK shows a high volume of issues were reported yesterday up until just before midnight. 
 
  It was thought Virgin Media had resolved the issue last night. 
 
  One customer on Twitter shared an email from Virgin Media saying due to a "technical issue" emails services had been disrupted for most of the day (Monday, June 19).
 
  The email continued: "While our teams have been able to fully restore most email services, work is still underway to completely resolve the issue for some accounts."
 
  It added Virgin Media customers would be able to send and receive emails normally but any emails received on or before yesterday "will not be appearing in your inbox, sent items or any other folders". 
 
    User reports indicate Virgin Media is having problems since 6:09 AM BST. https://t.co/YHseg8sHrH RT if you're also having problems #VirginMediadown
 
Downdetector has seen another spike this morning in reported issues with Virgin Media and its emailing service. 
 
Virgin Media customers took to Downdetector to vent their frustration, after thinking the problem with their emails had been resolved.
 
  One user said: "Thought they had fixed it last night.....guess what.....back to square one and still no idea what the problem is or do they think we are too stupid to understand.
 
  "I'll tell you what I DO understand. .....CUSTOMER SERVICE IS NON EXISTANT.
 
  "I still use my Blueyonder email from the halcyon days of when things actually worked....but things are getting steadily worse.
 
  "Is it lack of investment.....or trying to fix things when they are not broken.
 
  "Meanwhile I'm trying to run a business with one arm firmly tied behind my back."
 
Virgin Media email users have reported problems for a second day.  (Image: PA)
 
  A second person, on the Downdetector website, said: "At ~5 am this morning my main Virgin Media (Ntworld) email account had some of yesterday’s undelivered emails added to its Inbox.
 
  "However, all mail folders like ‘sent’ showed no ‘old’ emails whatsoever! Furthermore if I access one of the account’s folders its contents are only shown momentarily before then being show as empty.
 
  "Now 8:30am and email recovery now seems to have stalled by VM Oh Dear!"
 
  A third person added: "Absolutely no internet for 2 days now, what am I even paying for?"
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.