Additional Information South Campus Academic Wing C1702355 Nashville Rd.Bowling Green, KY 42101-1084 The 100% online Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology (CIT) program at WKU can help you prepare for many exciting career options. CIT has become
                        an integral part of modern life and business. Among its most important functions are
                        the efficient transmission of information and the storage and analysis of information.
                        The professions listed below in the Careers tab all help individuals and organizations
                        share and store information through computer networks and systems, the Internet, and
                        computer databases. Top Ten Reasons to Learn CIT at WKU! The online* Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology degree helps students
                              earn the credentials needed to build a strong foundation in the computer information
                              technology industry. This is valuable because computer information technology has
                              become an integral part of modern life and business. And, as a result, careers in
                              the computer information technology field frequently exceed median pay and job growth
                              outlook.  Four-Year Degree Plan Program Advisor: Dr. Yaser Mowafi (Students with 45 college hours or more and last names begining with K-Z) Phone: (270) 745-3415 Email: yaser.mowafi@wku.edu   Program Coordinator: Dr. Mark Revels (Students with less than 45 or 45 college hours or more and last names begining with
                                             A-J) Email: mark.revels@wku.edu   To learn more about the Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology, view the Undergraduate Catalog. To take the next step on your climb to the top, apply today!   Data source: Economic Modeling, LLC (Emsi) / www.economicmodeling.com The information provided through this website are based in part on U.S. Bureau of
                           Labor Statistics data that is licensed by Western Kentucky University from Emsi. While
                           Western Kentucky University believes this data to be reliable as a whole, some of
                           the data is based on estimates made by Emsi, when actual data is not available.  Western Kentucky University does not guarantee a job to graduates upon completion
                           of any program.       Information about accreditation can be found through the Office of the Provost. Some of the links on this page may require additional software to view.