where we explore workflow effectiveness through optimized information sharing and collaboration across robust real-time distribution technology. IHSE USA    At NAB 2023 in Las Vegas, NV, Julia Baumgartner, Sales Manager for IHSE’s KVM-Tec Brand, and Enno Littmann, CEO for IHSE Group Globally, showcased IHSE USA’s KVM-Tec solutions. Baumgartner highlighted the KVM over IP products, including the scalable multi-view commander and Media4K Connect with a new HDR feature set. These products allow one screen to display up to 16 sources, controlled by a single keyboard and mouse and easily set up over a standard network switch. Littmann emphasized IHSE’s ability to offer the best of both worlds – a rock-solid, secure, and high-performing proprietary KVM product and the flexibility of KVM over IP. IHSE USA’s hybrid solution caters to traditional and future-focused needs, making it a one-stop shop for KVM solutions. Share Show As the tech landscape evolves, the role of sales leaders has become more critical, especially in the startup world where agility and innovation are paramount. Leaders like Tonni Bennett, who have shaped dynamic companies in the industry, not only drive growth but also balance the demands of parenthood and family life while advancing in… Share Show In this episode of the Marketing AI SparkCast, Aby Varma, founder of Spark Novus, hosts Ruth Favela, the AI Marketing Manager at Tomorrow.io. They explore the transformative impact of AI on marketing, focusing on practical applications and strategies for marketers.   Topics Covered: · Ruth’s Journey in AI Marketing: Ruth shares her transition from… Share Show Applied Digital continues to make remarkable strides on its Ellendale AI Data Center in North Dakota. This state-of-the-art facility embodies the perfect blend of advanced technology and strategic design, establishing a new benchmark in data infrastructure specifically designed for AI. The Ellendale AI Data Center spans a massive 363,000 gross square feet across three… 
                        MarketScale creates and publishes industry-leading B2B content for industries
                        ranging from Education to Retail, and Hospitality to Healthcare delivering
                        engaging and educational live shows, online learning courses,
                        virtual events and more.
                     Sign up to receive the latest in industry-leading B2B content. Get the latest from IHSE USA Thank you for joining the IHSE USA.  has successfully been added. Get the latest from Revolutionizing Control Rooms: IHSE USA Showcases Advanced KVM-Tec Solutions Thank you for joining the Revolutionizing Control Rooms: IHSE USA Showcases Advanced KVM-Tec Solutions.  has successfully been added.