MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS InterAction+ seeks to move attorneys away from scattered Excel sheets and physical Rolodexes full of client information, integrating it in a single, consolidated customer relationship management platform. July 25, 2023 at 07:00 AM  4 minute read Legal Technology Legal Tech Reporter The original version of this story was published on Legaltech News On Tuesday, LexisNexis announced the launch of InterAction+, a new, cloud-based customer relationship management solution. The tool, which incorporates a large repository of data from LexisNexis’ database, is meant to create a collaborative approach within law firms to managing client–firm relations. Aaron Pierce, vice president of product management at LexisNexis, told Legaltech News that the tool will incorporate several new features over the next few months, and include both hybrid cloud and fully cloud-based platforms. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Brian Lee By Isha Marathe | Rhys Dipshan By Katharine Lee By Rhys Dipshan 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies The Texas Lawyer honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in Texas. Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Texas Lawyer now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.