DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The "Next Generation Cancer Diagnostics: Technologies and Global Markets" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

  
The base year for market data is 2021, with historical data provided for 2020 and 2019 and forecast data provided through 2027. Historical, base year, and forecast data are provided for each market segment of the report.

 
Companies Mentioned
 
An increasing number of cancer cases globally is one of the significant factors contributing to industry growth during the forecast period. Technological advancements in diagnostic tests are further expected to fuel industry growth. Moreover, supportive government initiatives and rising awareness are additional factors anticipated to boost growth during the forecast period.

 
For instance, the Biden-Harris administration has set a goal of decreasing the cancer mortality rate by 50% over the next 25 years and enhancing the knowledge surrounding people living with and surviving tumors.

 
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide, and the prevalence of the disease has been escalating at an alarming rate. Therefore, healthcare professionals are focusing on developing effective screening and treatment solutions to check prevalence levels. Early screening increases the success rate of treatment regimens. As a result, healthcare agencies and market players, through various awareness programs, are promoting routine check-ups and screenings. For instance, in March 2022, HHS announced funding of $5 million to improve equity in cancer screening at health centers.

 
The global oncology burden is projected to reach 28.4 million cases in 2040, a 47% growth from 2020. Thus, a rise in the incidence is anticipated to boost the adoption of cancer diagnostic products.

 
In April 2022, the Precision Cancer Consortium (PCC) collaborated with pharmaceutical companies by permitting access to comprehensive testing for all cancer patients globally. The PCC drives diverse initiatives to grow patient access to precision diagnostics using wide-ranging genomic testing, including next generation sequencing (NGS). The founding members of PCC include Novartis, Bayer, Roche, and GlaxoSmithKline.

 
Advanced diagnostics for cancer represent a significant market opportunity for life sciences companies. Many cancer types are on the rise as the aging populations of many countries continue to grow. As a result, there is an increasing demand for noninvasive diagnostic assays that can detect cancers earlier, molecularly subtype tumors to guide therapy decisions and monitor cancer recurrence in treated individuals.

 
Key Attributes:
 
Report Includes
 
Key Topics Covered:
 
Chapter 1 Introduction
 
Chapter 2 Summary and Highlights
 
Chapter 3 Market and Technology Background
 
3.1 Overview

 
3.2 Next Generation Sequencing in Personalized Medicine

 
3.3 NGS in Clinical Oncology

 
3.4 Large-Scale Initiatives and Consortia

 
3.5 Liquid Biopsy Technologies

 
3.6 Liquid Biopsy as a Market-Driving Force

 
3.7 Industry

 
3.8 Diagnostics Overview

 
3.9 Arrays and Microfluidics (Loac) Technologies

 
3.10 Multiplex Conventional Technologies

 
3.11 Polymerase Chain Reaction (Pcr) Technology

 
Chapter 4 Cancer Diagnostics Market
 
4.1 Forces Driving Growth

 
4.2 Cancer Markets

 
4.3 Market for Next-Generation Cancer Diagnostics by Cancer Site

 
4.4 Market for Next-Generation Cancer Diagnostics by Purpose of Analysis

 
4.5 Market for Next-Generation Cancer Diagnostics by Test Platform

 
4.6 Market for Test Platforms by Cancer Site

 
4.7 Market by Diagnostic Segment

 
Chapter 5 Market Breakdown Application by Cancer Site
 
Chapter 6 Emerging Technologies
 
Chapter 7 Evaluation of the Market Based on Geographic Region
 
Chapter 8 Patents
 
Chapter 9 Company Profiles
 
For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/qyxnpu
 
About ResearchAndMarkets.com
 
ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.

 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com 
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./ CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

 
ResearchAndMarkets.com
Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager
press@researchandmarkets.com 
For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470
For U.S./ CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630
For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

