You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jan 1, 2024, 2:11pm Are you deciding whether to major in computer science or an engineering field? If so, it’s important to understand how the disciplines differ. Both trajectories can lead to well-paying job opportunities, and depending on your specialization and level of expertise, salaries can exceed six figures. Here, you’ll find a side-by-side comparison of computer science vs. computer engineering, including educational requirements and potential employment outcomes. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. Put simply, computer science is the study of computers. As a discipline, computer science solves problems using hardware, software, theory and algorithms. Given its broad scope, degrees in computer science can apply across many industries and lead to lucrative careers in software development, programming and engineering. Computer engineering focuses on building computing technology. The field’s scope encompasses the design, integration and maintenance of software, hardware and networks. These are managed by professionals like computer software engineers, computer hardware engineers and network engineers, to name a few. At first glance, computer science and computer engineering can seem like similar degree paths. Both disciplines require an in-depth understanding of software and hardware programming, along with knowledge of various operating systems and networks and a critical eye for solutions using cutting-edge technology. However, computer science and computer engineering degrees vary in significant ways. Computer science students learn to use technology as a tool for analysis and development. Computer engineering students explore ways to design and build technology through hands-on experiences, both in and out of the classroom. Computer science coursework tends to be broad and varied, covering topics like the following. At the undergraduate level, a computer science bachelor’s degree typically includes a set of core classes in the major. These courses cover basic computer organization, general mathematics, algorithms and programming. Computer science students may also select concentrations like network security, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Students enrolled in a master’s in computer science or higher should expect advanced coursework in the areas listed above. They must also declare a concentration or an area of research expertise. Fortunately, many programs have fully online offerings, and others offer part-time enrollment options for prospective students who are employed. With its emphasis on computer architecture, computer engineering degrees require specialized courses in the following areas: Computer engineering undergraduate degrees build learners’ technical skills. These degrees may include courses that are similar to those in computer science degree programs, such as seminars in programming and computer networks. Students are challenged to draw on critical thinking skills as they learn to address societal problems via computer technology. Given the ever-growing need for digital security and automation in today’s world, concentrations in cybersecurity and artificial intelligence are popular among students pursuing bachelor’s degrees in computer engineering. Master’s and Ph.D. programs in computer engineering offer theory-based coursework and emphasize hands-on application. Learners in these programs often complete thesis or research projects. For example, at Syracuse University’s College of Engineering and Computer Science, graduate students may complete an original research project either independently or in conjunction with an employer. Like computer science graduate learners, computer engineering students may have access to online enrollment options. They may also need to determine a concentration before pursuing a master’s or Ph.D. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projects that the country will see 377,500 openings in the computer and information technology sector from each year 2022 to 2032. The field of computer science at large is booming and includes roles for developers, programmers, analysts, coders and managers, among other professionals. Median Annual Salary: $136,620
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): +23%
Job Description: Computer scientists create tools and technologies to solve computing problems. Employment varies based on industry, but opportunities exist in government work, academia and private organizations. Most employers prefer candidates for these roles to hold master’s degrees. Median Annual Salary: $124,200
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): +25%
Job Description: This cybersecurity career offers an important, ongoing defense against hacking and security breaches. Information security analysts work to develop preventative solutions that protect the integrity of computer networks, systems and technologies. Entry-level employees should hold a bachelor’s degree at a minimum. Median Annual Salary: $127,260
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): +26%
Job Description: Software developers strategize to create computer applications, programs and operating systems. This role requires an overview of the design, test, review and troubleshooting stages to guarantee that programs are functional. Entry-level jobs for these professionals usually require a bachelor’s degree. In computer engineering, the BLS projects a roughly average rate of job growth over the next decade. In some cases, entry-level employment is more accessible for computer engineering than it is for computer science, with few jobs requiring master’s degrees to start. However, advanced education credentials can set computer engineering candidates apart and potentially boost their earning potential. Median Annual Salary: $97,800
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): -11%
Job Description: What is computer programming? Compared to software developers, who ideate and manage the development of applications and programs, computer programmers are primarily responsible for writing the code and scripts that make applications functional. A bachelor’s degree is usually required for entry-level computer programming jobs. Median Annual Salary: $132,360
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): +5%
Job Description: Tasked with testing and developing computer systems, computer hardware engineers can work with computer processors, circuit boards, memory and storage. They aim to make computers more efficient and work in a variety of industries including transportation, medicine and telecommunications. Entry-level professionals should have a bachelor’s degree. Median Annual Salary: $102,240
Projected Job Growth (2022-2032): +10%
Job Description: Computer systems analysts work at the intersection of business and engineering. They aim to improve computer systems by understanding an organization’s needs. This role requires research and engagement with business trends. Analysts often train others to use computing tools as well. Employers typically prefer entry-level employees to have bachelor’s degrees. It depends on your title, but both career tracks have high earning potential. According to the BLS, the median pay for computer and information research scientists as of May 2022 was $136,620. Computer hardware engineers earned $132,360. Computer engineers work in many industries, building and troubleshooting technology to create real-time solutions. According to the BLS, computer engineers usually work in computer systems design; research and development in the physical, engineering and life sciences; and the manufacturing of semiconductors and other electrical components. Computer hardware engineers earned a median salary of $132,360 as of May 2022, and computer network architects earned $126,900. 

 Ian (he/him) is a contributing writer and a communications professional. He holds a master’s degree in sociology, and currently, he a is a doctoral candidate completing his dissertation.