Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Chemicals, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Wednesday, as gains in the Personal & Household Goods, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Monday, as gains in the Consumer Goods, Oil & Gas and Software & Computer Services sectors led shares higher. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Friday, as gains in the Consumer Goods, Oil & Gas and Software & Computer Services sectors led shares higher. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Thursday, as losses in the Software & Computer Services, Technology and Oil & Gas sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Healthcare, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Chemicals, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Friday, as gains in the Software & Computer Services, Technology and Consumer Goods sectors led shares higher. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Chemicals, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Monday, as gains in the Consumer Goods, Oil & Gas and Software & Computer Services sectors led shares higher. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Thursday, as losses in the Software & Computer Services, Technology and Oil & Gas sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Chemicals, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Wednesday, as gains in the Personal & Household Goods, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Friday, as gains in the Consumer Goods, Oil & Gas and Software & Computer Services sectors led shares higher. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were lower after the close on Tuesday, as losses in the Healthcare, Software & Computer Services and Technology sectors led shares lower. At the... Investing.com – Denmark stocks were higher after the close on Friday, as gains in the Software & Computer Services, Technology and Consumer Goods sectors led shares higher. At the...