The best Windows 10 antivirus programs can keep your Windows 10 or 11 PC protected from the latest threats 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The best Windows 10 antivirus can help keep your PC protected from cyberattacks as well as malware trying to steal your personal and financial data. Even though Windows Defender has improved significantly over the years, it just can’t be the extra protection offered by the best antivirus software. In addition to keeping your PC safe from viruses, some antivirus programs can “rollback” files encrypted by malware while others include advanced protection to stop phishing attacks. At the same time, some antivirus software may give you access to a VPN, password manager and other extras but only the best internet security suites come with all of the bells and whistles. We’ve tested and reviewed the best Windows 10 antivirus software to see how well these programs can protect your PC but we also measured their impact on system performance to make sure they don’t slow down your computer. Best overall  Best Windows 10 antivirus overall Bitdefender Antivirus Plus offers very good malware protection with lots of useful features like password manager and a VPN. You also get access to a secure browser, a file shredder and ransomware rollback. Read more below Best protection  Best Windows 10 antivirus for protection

Kaspersky Anti-Virus provides excellent malware protection and a light performance impact during scans. You also get access to a password manager and parental controls but the included VPN is more of an upsell with serious limitations. Read more below Best for features  Best Windows 10 antivirus for features

Norton AntiVirus Plus gives you excellent malware protection with loads of extra features like backup software, cloud storage and a password manager but not a VPN. Read more below Best performance  Best Windows 10 antivirus for performance ESET NOD32 Antivirus offers very good protection with an extremely light impact on system performance. While there are few extra features, you only pay for what you need. Read more below Best for multiple computers  Best Windows 10 antivirus for multiple computers

McAfee AntiVirus Plus has good malware protection and a decent array of extra features. However, the best thing about it is that you can protect a lot of computers for cheap. Read more below Best on a budget  Best Windows 10 antivirus on a budget

Trend Micro offers very good malware protection at a budget price. You also get access to a secure browser but you won't find a password manager or VPN here. Read more below Why you can trust Tom's Guide 


Our writers and editors spend hours analyzing and reviewing products, services, and apps to help find what's best for you. Find out more about how we test, analyze, and rate.  Our expert review: If you want some extra features with one of the best Windows 10 antivirus programs, Bitdefender Antivirus Plus provides a lot for its low price, which ranges from $40 per year for a single PC to $80 for 10 machines. There’s an unlimited password manager, a secure browser with an onscreen keyboard for online banking and shopping, a file shredder and web-privacy software. Bitdefender Antivirus Plus also includes a VPN but it’s limited to 200MB per day unless you pay extra. However, there aren’t any parental controls. Still though, the program is easy to use, its malware-detection record is excellent and it also rolls back ransomware and guards against fileless malware and rootkits. Read our full Bitdefender Antivirus Plus review or save with our Bitdefender coupon codes  Our expert review: If you want the very best Windows 10 antivirus protection, Kaspersky Anti-Virus should be your first choice. No other brand of antivirus software matches its nearly impeccable record in third-party lab tests.  The company's entry-level package, Kaspersky Anti-Virus, covers up to three Windows PCs for $60 per year, or up to five for $80, though you'll often get half off for the first year.  Kaspersky Anti-Virus doesn't give many of you the extra bells and whistles you'll find with more expensive security suites. There are no parental controls, the password manager holds only 15 entries and the VPN service is limited to 300MB per day. (You can pay extra to get unlimited versions of those.) But Kaspersky Anti-Virus does give you exactly what you need: dedicated protection against encrypting ransomware, a filter against phishing emails, browser extensions to beef up web safety and a security scanner for your home Wi-Fi network.  Kaspersky Anti-Virus also has protection against "stalkerware" or spying programs that the company is rolling out across all its antivirus products. Read our full Kaspersky Anti-Virus review.  Our expert review: Norton sells nine different antivirus packages, but we'll focus on the two cheapest here. Norton AntiVirus Plus protects one PC or Mac for a rather pricey $60 per year, but it does come with a two-way firewall, an unlimited password manager, backup software and 2GB of online storage.  The next tier up, Norton 360 Standard, puts you in internet-security-suite territory by adding an unlimited VPN, webcam protection, dark-web scans for your personal information and 10GB of online storage. At $85 per year for a single PC though, it might be a bit expensive for some customers. Other brands cover up to 10 PCs for that price. On the upside, Norton's track record at finding and defeating malware is second only to Kaspersky's. If you don't mind paying a premium price for an entry-level antivirus package, or if you were planning to pay for a VPN or password manager separately, you could do a lot worse. Read our full Norton AntiVirus Plus review or save with our Norton coupon codes  Our expert review: Compared to other Windows 10 antivirus programs, ESET NOD32 Antivirus is like a street-racing hot rod — light, cheap, fast and effective, but with few extra frills.  It's got the smallest drag on system performance of any paid antivirus product we've seen, it zaps malware like the best of them, and it's got a unique per-device pricing structure than ensures you pay no more than you need to. ESET's extra features are under the hood. It scans a PC's start-up sector, searching your memory and Registry for hidden malware and also blocks known malicious websites. But if you're looking for user-friendly goodies like a password manager, VPN or firewall, you'd better look elsewhere. Read our full ESET NOD32 Antivirus review.  Our expert review: McAfee AntiVirus Plus is a bargain among Windows 10 antivirus programs if you have a lot of computers and smartphones to protect. For $60 per year, you can cover up to 10 devices running Windows, Mac, Android or iOS, and McAfee doesn't mind if you add a few more.  Windows users get a file shredder, ransomware rollback, a firewall and protective browser extensions. McAfee AntiVirus, without the "Plus," delivers the same features to a single Windows PC for $40 per year. McAfee's malware protection hasn't always been the best in lab tests, but it's improved a lot. The only big downsides today are very heavy system slowdown during active malware scans, plus the fact that you can't stop threat-data collection from your PC if you choose not to have it. Read our full McAfee AntiVirus Plus review.  Our expert review: Trend Micro does very well in some lab tests, but its Antivirus+ Security package is even more Spartan than ESET's among Windows 10 antivirus programs. For $40 per year for one PC, you get a gaming mode, a secure web browser for online banking, ransomware rollback and an email screener to guard against phishing attempts.  The downsides are that you'll see a pretty heavy system slowdown during scans, so make sure to run them during off hours. You may also get a lot of false positives, or benign items flagged as suspicious, which may indicate that Trend Micro's malware-detection engine is a bit over tuned. Read our full Trend Micro Antivirus+ Security review. As is the case with other types of software, you need to choose Windows 10 antivirus programs according to both your needs and budget. The best bang for your buck is Bitdefender Antivirus Plus as it’s fairly inexpensive and has an unlimited password manager, a file shredder and its own secure browser. If you have more money to spend and only a single PC to protect, you might want to consider Norton AntiVirus Plus or Norton 360 Standard. Both give you access to an unlimited password manager and Standard adds an unlimited VPN and dark web personal information monitoring. If you have Macs and Android devices to cover in addition to Windows 10 machines, McAfee AntiVirus Plus can meet your needs at a bargain rate – $60 covers 10 devices. However, McAfee’s malware defenses are not quite as good as those of Norton, Bitdefender or Kaspersky. To get the best Mac antivirus software or the best Android antivirus apps as part of a bundle, you've often got to upgrade to midrange antivirus software, if not the premium tiers.  Of course, if all you want to do is keep your PCs free from malware, then Kaspersky Anti-Virus is the best choice. It doesn’t do much besides block malware, phishing emails and dodgy websites, but it does these things better than the rest. We evaluated each Windows 10 antivirus program on this list based on its interface, performance, protection and extra features. Was the program intuitive and user-friendly? Did malware scans significantly slow down system performance? Was it effective at detecting and removing both old and new malware? Did the program come with any other useful tools? Our tests were performed on a Lenovo ThinkPad T470 with a 2.5GHz Core i5-7200U processor, 8GB of RAM and 256GB of solid-state storage containing 43.3GB of files. In order to gauge each program’s impact on system performance, we used our custom Excel test which measures how long a PC takes to match 20,000 names and addresses on a spreadsheet. The longer the task takes, the more the system is impacted. For malware detection performance, we referred to results from tests conducted by three independent labs: AV-TEST in Germany, AV-Comparatives in Austria and SE Labs in England.  Each lab periodically subjects major antivirus programs to stress tests that include thousands of pieces of malware as well as hundreds of “zero-day” samples that the software has to learn to recognize. For even more information, check out our guide on how we test antivirus software and apps and our more general how we test page for Tom's Guide. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Anthony Spadafora is the security and networking editor at Tom’s Guide where he covers everything from data breaches and ransomware gangs to password managers and the best way to cover your whole home or business with Wi-Fi. Before joining the team, he wrote for ITProPortal while living in Korea and later for TechRadar Pro after moving back to the US. Based in Houston, Texas, when he’s not writing Anthony can be found tinkering with PCs and game consoles, managing cables and upgrading his smart home.  ESET Mobile Security review: Excellent malware protection with an ultrafast scanner Kaspersky Antivirus for Android review: Great protection and plenty of extras but at a steep price Tight on time? Build full-body strength and boost your metabolism with just 1 dumbbell and 20 minutes Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 