 Analysts have been eager to weigh in on the Consumer Goods sector with new ratings on Duckhorn Portfolio (NAPA – Research Report), Conagra Brands (CAG – Research Report) and Altria Group (MO – Research Report). Duckhorn Portfolio (NAPA) In a report released yesterday, Lauren Lieberman  from Barclays reiterated a Buy rating on Duckhorn Portfolio, with a price target of $17.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $13.24, close to its 52-week low of $12.64. According to TipRanks.com, Lieberman is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 2.4% and a 54.0% success rate. Lieberman covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as International Flavors & Fragrances, Coca-Cola Europacific Partners, and Constellation Brands. Duckhorn Portfolio has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $19.80.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Conagra Brands (CAG) In a report released yesterday, Andrew Lazar  from Barclays maintained a Buy rating on Conagra Brands, with a price target of $42.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $34.42. According to TipRanks.com, Lazar is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 5.3% and a 59.1% success rate. Lazar covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Mondelez International, Lamb Weston Holdings, and The Hershey Company. Currently, the analyst consensus on Conagra Brands is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $41.75.
		  Altria Group (MO) In a report released yesterday, Gaurav Jain  from Barclays assigned a Sell rating to Altria Group, with a price target of $37.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $44.58. According to TipRanks.com, Jain is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 9.6% and a 57.3% success rate. Jain covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Scotts Miracle-Gro Company, Turning Point Brands, and Philip Morris. Altria Group has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $48.33. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on NAPA:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks