For premium support please call: For premium support please call: Everyone wants home security, but no one wants to pay high-end prices for that security. Zosi offers introductory-level security systems at really reasonable prices — we're talking a camera on sale for only $18. They use DVR, so you'll get 24/7 recording without an expensive subscription. Right now, several Zosi cameras and kits are on sale at Amazon, but only for today. Here are the standout deals. If you have a smaller system already and want to expand it, snap up this Zosi cam. "It's like you're there!" raved a five-star fan. "This camera is so clear I can see my neighbor's truck tags from 50 yards away. An EXCELLENT buy!" If you don't yet have a system, consider one of these starter kits below. This is an eight-channel system, which means you can add up to four additional cameras and monitor what's happening on all of those cameras at once. It can also be set up to automatically overwrite the oldest footage so that you have continuous recording. The cameras themselves are IP67 weatherproof, which means they'll hold up to most rainstorms or dusty conditions, and they have night vision up to 80 feet out. "I have had my first Zosi system for over two years and it's still in use every day. I just ordered a second system to expand my coverage and memory. Company has been great to me and I would recommend," said one five-star reviewer. "I upgraded my home security to the Zosi [and] I'm still smiling. ... It was very easy to install (I installed it by myself), the picture quality is far superior to the system I had before, the hard drive is capable of storing much more data, and I am able to access the system on my phone to perform various tasks from anywhere," said one fan. "I work for a casino and install/maintain non-gaming surveillance equipment, including cameras. The [Zosi cameras] are not $1,000 apiece surveillance cameras; in fact, I spent less than 1/3 for this entire system than the price of our least expensive camera at work. With that being said, the quality of video I'm getting from this Zosi system is 90% the quality I get from my systems at work at less than 10% of the cost (8 cameras and a storage server)," raved a fan. The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. If you have Amazon Prime, you’ll get free shipping, of course. Not yet a member? No problem. You can sign up for your free 30-day trial here. (And by the way, those without Prime still get free shipping on orders of $25 or more.) Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement