We independently evaluate the products we review. When you buy via links on our site, we may receive compensation. Read more about how we vet products and deals. Looking for an instant bathroom upgrade? Amazon has just what you need to transform your shower into a spa-like oasis. It's the Sparkpod Shower Head and you can get it for just $33, down from $60 — that's over 45% off! This high-pressure, fixed shower head is high flow, has five different settings and is made with rust-proof chrome.  This high pressure rainfall shower head gives you that luxury rainfall feeling without draining your water tank. This shower head is designed to use less water and has a maximum outflow of 1.8 gallons per minute, but feels like you're getting doused. Even better? It's easy to install and comes with extra teflon tape to help with fitting and it's low-maintenance — the rust-proof chrome is easy to clean. After just one use, you'll never want to go back to a regular shower head, so says more than 37,000 five-star fans. "Best ever shower hhead" is the common theme among the reviews. "This is literally the best shower head I’ve ever used," shared one rave reviewer. "Great pressure and water coverage! It’s moved with me from one apartment to another already and it’s easy to install and remove and even came with the tape for the pipe. Now when I use another shower I miss this shower head!" "We've had 10+ different models of shower heads, and bought this one to replace another where the seal busted and was leaking," reported a five-star fan. "This cheap head works SO much better than all the big brand names we've used, even ones up to $100. We literally just moved to a new house and I'm buying this to replace the brand new one in our shower." "This shower head is like a power washer," gushed another happy shopper. "The water pressure is incredible, it’s super easy to install, and it looks sharp too!" Made with rust-proof chrome, this high-pressure, fixed shower head is high flow and has five different settings.  If you have Amazon Prime, you’ll get free shipping, of course. Not yet a member? No problem. You can sign up for your free 30-day trial here. (And by the way, those without Prime still get free shipping on orders of $25 or more.) The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.