— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. As you prepare for outdoor fun this summer, pool floats, grills and lawn mowers might be at the top of your wish list. But if you want to keep your interiors tidy all year long, we have a few Reviewed-approved Amazon deals on best-selling Dyson vacuum cleaners for you. With up to 26% off cordless Dyson vacuums and fast delivery, you can spend less time and money cleaning your floors this summer and more time outside enjoying the sunshine.  The Dyson V15 Detect Cordless Vacuum Cleaner is our favorite Dyson vacuum overall and ranks among one of the best cordless vacuums we've ever tried. We found that the lightweight vacuum has outstanding suction power for cleaning carpets thoroughly, vacuuming about an average of 92% of the detritus during testing. The V15’s unique laser illuminates dust and debris while cleaning and is equipped with a sensor that detects dirt particle sizes and displays them on the vacuum’s readout. The improved battery has a run time that lasts 15 minutes on its maximum setting and up to 60 minutes on the power saving mode.  ➤Apple AirTags deal: Keep track of your keys, wallet and luggage—shop this Amazon deal to save 9% The Dyson Cyclone V10 Animal Cordless Vacuum Cleaner is very similar to the V10 Absolute model that we ranked among the overall best Dyson cleaners we've ever tested. According to Jon Chan, Reviewed's Senior Manager of Lab Operations, the Animal and the Absolute are the same base unit with the only difference being the Absolute comes with 10 attachments while the Animal comes with five. You'll still get the high-quality motorbrush head that drives the vacuum's bristles deeper into carpeted floors for more effective dirt removal and the Animal has a long battery life of up to 60 minutes and picked up 89% of the dirt we dumped during testing. ➤Save up to $700: Shop today's best Samsung deals on new customizable Bespoke refrigerators we love According to Dyson, the Outsize+ Cordless Vacuum Cleaner has up to 120 minutes of run time and features two batteries for longer cleaning sprees. The cleaner head is 25% wider than the Dyson V15 Detect and it has a larger bin. You’ll get a Laser Slim Fluffy cleaner head for sucking up tiny dust particles and a Digital Motorcar XL cleaner head for carpets. This powerful vacuum uses its whole-machine filtration system to trap 99.99% of harmful particles.  Whatever Dyson vacuum deal you score, you'll end up with a top-tier cleaner at a great price. Be sure to shop fast, because we don't see these Amazon deals sticking around. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.