Say bye to razor bumps and nicks. Women's Health may earn commission from the links on this page, but we only feature products we believe in. Why Trust Us? I don’t know about you, but for me, shaving can be an absolute pain. Not only do I have to shave my sensitive skin at least twice a week (making my shower routine longer), but sometimes the practice also brings some unwelcome visitors in the form of razor bumps and nicks. Fortunately, with a solid razor for sensitive skin and a proper shaving routine, those little bumps can be a thing of the past.  First things first: when shopping for a razor, you have to consider the number of blades. “You can avoid irritation by going to just two blades rather than four,” says Jeanine Downie, MD, a dermatologist and the director of Image Dermatology P.C. in New Jersey. You can also look for a razor with a lubricating strip or something to create a buffer between your skin and the blade, says Marisa Garshick, MD, a New York-based dermatologist at MDCS Dermatology. Meet the experts: Jeanine Downie, MD, is a dermatologist and the director of Image Dermatology P.C. in New Jersey. Marisa Garshick, MD, is a New York-based dermatologist at MDCS Dermatology. Ahead, check out WH’s best picks for razors for sensitive skin, with recommendations from dermatologists, editors, and rave reviews. First up is a WH editor- and dermatologist-approved razor. Both Dr. Garshick and myself are fans of this razor because it's so easy to use with an ergonomic handle, provides a clean shave, and all in all, just gets the job done. Dr. Garshick likes that aloe moisturizer is built into the blades for hydration. "That does help to create a gentle and smooth shave," she says. Editor Review: "I have the glow-in-the-dark Billie razor and absolutely love it. It's easy to use on my sensitive skin, which tends to break out easily with from products, and it's effective. I've rarely cut myself shaving with this razor, yet it hasn't dulled from many uses so far, either." —Addison Aloian, WH editorial assistant Dr. Downie approves of BIC razors because they're disposable, so you can easily throw them away after a few uses. With just two blades, these razors will be gentle to your skin, and since they're slim, they're easy to throw in a bag and take when traveling. Plus, ten razors come in a pack, giving you the best bang for your buck. Rave Review: "I began to purchase these razors on Amazon because everything is getting so expensive. I used to use more expensive triple-blade razors. These BIC razors get the job done for a great price! Thank you, Amazon!" Dr. Downie also recommends Venus razors, and this one is for pubic hair and skin, but can be used all over. It has just two blades, making it perfect for sensitive skin, and also comes with an exfoliant, shave gel, and serum. Another pro: It has a gentle formula. Rave Review: "The razor glides effortlessly on my skin, providing a close and comfortable shave without any nicks or irritation. The multiple blades ensure a smooth finish, leaving my skin feeling silky soft." Flamingo's razor is beloved by WH, including by love & life editor Lydia Wang. Her sensitive skin stays hydrated and un-irritated with this razor from the aloe and shea butter built in. Plus, it has a no-slip grip, flexible handle for those hard-to-reach spots, and five sharp blades. Editor Review: "Swapping my generic razor for this one from Flamingo was a game-changer. Not only does it offer a close, precise shave, but it's lubricated with aloe and shea butter, which has helped my skin stay soft, moisturized, and irritation-free." —Lydia Wang, WH love & life editor Don't want to go full razor? In that case, you can try a dermaplaning tool, which is a bit less intense than a razor. It works great for facial hair and light baby hairs which you might want to ease the appearance of, and Dr. Garshick recommends this one because of the micro-guards.  Dermatologist Review: "The Schick Silk Touch-Up uses these little micro-guards which help to protect the skin, so that makes it a pretty good option for somebody with sensitive skin." —Marisa Garshick, MD WH commerce editor Jasmine Gomez is a fan of these razors for their close shave, easy glide, and effortless feel. They have an ergonomic handle with soft-grip gel, plus, they're designed to be durable, lasting for up to one month at a time. Reviewers love the clean shave and results they get with these razors—sans any nicks or bumps. Editor Review: "I love these razors because the three blades help them deliver a close shave rarely requiring to pass over the same patch of skin again. The lubastrip also helps them glide easily, so that shaving feels effortless for the most part, and the pivoting head makes shaving my underarms and bikini line a lot easier." —Jasmine Gomez, WH commerce editor Since Dr. Downie likes the brand BIC, here's another great option for those with sensitive skin. Each razor has just two blades and they have a tapered, light handle which will make shaving easy. Coming in five different colors, they have a narrow fixed razor head, which will provide a precise shave. Although there aren't any reviews from the United States online yet, WH still wanted to include them, since the brand is expert-approved. This razor also comes at the recommendation of Dr. Garshick. It's perfect for sensitive skin because of its SkinGuard technology that protects the skin, and reviewers love the smooth shave it provides. While it's marketed to men, it can be used for all genders.  Dermatologist Review: "It contains their SkinGuard technology, which helps to protect the skin from the blades, and lubrication to allow for an easy glide." This razor is highly-rated on Amazon—with over 5,500 ratings and an average of 4.6 stars—and it's not hard to see why. Many reviewers wrote that it's a great razor for those just learning, and that's thanks to the ergonomic handle and built-in organic cocoa butter for hydration. With four blades, it provides a clean shave.  Rave Review: "I've been using this razor since it first came out years ago and it's my favorite! I hate having to use shaving cream so this is awesome and just shave while I shower. After a while the razor gets kind of gross inside from soap residue, so you have to replace the whole thing, but I love it because I can pick out a new color." For one week, Women’s Health editors, including our editorial assistant Addison Aloian, tested the bestselling, most popular, and top-rated razors for sensitive skin. Our team consulted Jeanine Downie, MD, and Marisa Garshick, MD, and then evaluated thousands of customer reviews and ratings to narrow down the best nine items for a wide range of needs and preferences. The first step to avoiding irritation when you shave: never dry shave, says Dr. Downie. Instead, prep the skin with a gentle cleanser, “getting the skin and hairs a little bit damp because that tends to soften the hairs to make it easier for the hairs to come off,” adds Dr. Garshick. Then, apply a thicker, creamier shave gel, like Aveeno, Gillette, or Edge shave gel, Dr. Downie says.   Then, shave in the direction of your hair growth, since that’ll be less irritating for your skin. After shaving, apply a moisturizing cream like Gold Bond or AmLactin. It’s also a good idea to add sunblock with an SPF of at least 30 because razor burn can lead to hyperpigmentation, Dr. Downie says. (However, if you get hyperpigmentation, you should seek the help of a dermatologist.) You should switch out your razor pretty frequently. Dr. Downie recommends switching it out every two shaves, while Dr. Garshick making the switch between five and ten shaves. However, if you have thicker hair, you may want to stick closer to Dr. Downie’s number as your blade may dull sooner.  “If you're not getting a nice clean shave with the use, then generally that's a good time to dispose of it,” Dr. Garshick adds. Addison Aloian is the assistant love & life editor at Women’s Health and a NASM-certified personal trainer (CPT). She covers all things lifestyle, astrology, relationships, and fitness. In her free time, you can find her lifting weights at the gym, running on the West Side Highway in New York City, and watching (and critiquing!) the latest movies that have garnered Oscars buzz. In addition to Women's Health, her work has also appeared in Allure, StyleCaster, L'Officiel USA, V Magazine, VMAN, and more. Brian Underwood is the beauty director at Women’s Health. He is an award-winning journalist with more than 15 years of experience covering beauty and lifestyle for several national media outlets and previously served as beauty and wellness director at Oprah Daily. His work has appeared in Woman’s Day, Life & Style Weekly, Good Housekeeping, and many more. He also serves as a member of the Skin Cancer Foundation’s gala committee and lives in New York City with his daughter. 7 Best Scrunchies, Tested By Hairstylists Does Aloe Vera Really Promote Hair Growth? 8 Best Facial Toners Of 2024, Tested By Experts The Best Aloe Vera Gels, Tested By Beauty Experts The 12 Best Hair Growth Oils The Best Lip Stains Hailee Steinfeld's Pre-Aging Skincare Routine The 7 Best Hair Straighteners For Every Hair Type The Best Eye Creams for Wrinkles Can You Use Beef Tallow As A Moisturizer? 6 Best Stretch Mark Creams Money Can Buy 7 Best Home Waxing Kits, Tested By Beauty Experts A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazins, Inc. All Rights Reserved.