Ameren Illinois, one of the state's largest electric and gas delivery companies, has filed plans for electric and gas rate increases. The Illinois Commerce Commission will review the requests for a $160.4 million gas rate hike over a year and a four-year $435.6 million electric increase. The reasons for the requests are multi-fold, Ameren communications director Tucker Kennedy said Thursday. It partially stems from a requirement in the Climate and Equitable Jobs Act, a green energy package that puts the state on track to be 100% carbon-free with its energy sources by 2050. The act, passed by the General Assembly and signed by Gov. JB Pritzker in 2021, requires electric utility companies like Ameren serving more than 500,000 retail customers in Illinois to file a multi-year integrated grid plan - 2023 through 2027 - with the ICC. Kennedy said the plan will allow Ameren to ensure the integrity of its grid in bouts of extreme weather, while preparing for the transition to clean energy. What has concerned groups such as the Citizens Utility Board is already high rates following an increase last year. Starting in June 2022, an average Ameren customer saw a $52 monthly increase in how much they pay in the power supply portion of their bill. Related:Ameren Illinois customers may see $600 increase in their annual electric bill. Here's why Kennedy said the supply and demand challenge, especially in downstate areas, is driving the increases. COVID-19, war in Ukraine, and the CEJA standard to shut down coal-powered facilities in the state also are factors. "When you have high demand and supply is restrained, we're seeing pretty significant increases in the cost of energy," he said. Ameren projected a more than 25% increase in energy costs for customers this winter. The utility company covers three-quarters of the state and serves 1.2 million electric and 816,000 natural gas customers in central and southern Illinois per its website. More:With energy bills expected to rise this winter, here are some ways to save money Kennedy said a customer's bill covers supply and delivery costs and Ameren does not profit from the increased rates. The utility is the energy delivery provider with the cost making up less than half of the typical monthly bill, according to documents shared with The State Journal-Register. The CUB, a nonpartisan non-profit advocating for residential utility customers, has been active in its opposition to the proposed rate hikes with two petitions for the ICC to reject the proposals. “This is awful news for Ameren customers who already were suffering under some of the highest electric and gas supply prices in Illinois history as well as earlier Ameren rate hikes,” CUB Executive Director David Kolata said in a statement. “CUB will do a thorough review of Ameren’s rate cases, and we will challenge every penny Ameren can’t justify.” Ameren's request will go through an 11-month ICC review including public comment before a decision in December. The state of Illinois offers a low-income home energy assistance program to help households struggling to pay utility bills. Eligible customers have until May 31 or until funding runs out to apply. In Sangamon County, people can contact the Sangamon County Department of Community Resources or visit helpillinoisfamilies.com. Contact Patrick Keck: 312-549-9340, pkeck@gannett.com, twitter.com/@pkeckreporter. This article originally appeared on State Journal-Register: Ameren Illinois files for electric and gas rate increases New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.