
By Stan Horaczek
 Posted on Feb 18, 2023 8:00 AM EST 3 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn more › The Presidents Day holiday weekend can sneak up on you. It’s hiding here in February when we’re busy trying to salvage our New Year resolutions. It’s still too cold to spend this holiday outside, so spend it browsing Best Buy’s sales on, well, just about everything.  The big blue electronics retailer has discounts going in just about every category. You can check out the full list here, or keep scrolling for some of our   Executive editor, gear and reviews Stan Horaczek is the executive gear editor at Popular Science. He oversees a team of gear-obsessed writers and editors dedicated to finding and featuring the newest, best, and most innovative gadgets on the market and beyond. He lives in upstate New York with his family, a three-legged dog, and a truly unreasonable collection of hundreds of vintage film cameras and lenses.  Popular Science started writing about technology more than 150 years ago. There was no such thing as “gadget writing” when we published our first issue in 1872, but if there was, our mission to demystify the world of innovation for everyday readers means we would have been all over it. Here in the present, PopSci is fully committed to helping readers navigate the increasingly intimidating array of devices on the market right now.

Our writers and editors have combined decades of experience covering and reviewing consumer electronics. We each have our own obsessive specialties—from high-end audio to video games to cameras and beyond—but when we’re reviewing devices outside of our immediate wheelhouses, we do our best to seek out trustworthy voices and opinions to help guide people to the very best recommendations. We know we don’t know everything, but we’re excited to live through the analysis paralysis that internet shopping can spur so readers don’t have to.

Find out more about our product evaluation process. 
By Quinn Gawronski
 
By Stan Horaczek
 
By Adam Douglas
 
By Brandt Ranj
 
By Fiona Tapp
 
By Julian Vittorio
 
By Stan Horaczek
 
By Brandon Russell
 Sign up to receive Popular Science’s emails and get the highlights. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made.

Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service.

© 2024 Recurrent. All rights reserved. 