Get local news delivered to your inbox! Utility customers throughout Illinois will likely see higher natural gas bills beginning in January after staff at the state’s utility regulatory agency recommended rate increases for four gas companies. Those recommendations — made by administrative judges at the Illinois Commerce Commission — next go to the appointed five-member commission itself. Over the next two months, the ICC will weigh whether to approve rate hikes for the 4.1 million customers of Ameren Illinois, Nicor Gas, Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas. Estimates on the consumer cost of the rate increases, which go into effect in January, vary. Nicor, which serves 2.2 million Illinoisans, estimates that their original request would increase customer bills by about $9.28 per month. Ameren customers’ bills are expected to increase by several dollars per month as well. Peoples Gas claims that, due to the falling price of natural gas, customer bills will remain at similar levels to last winter. The proposed rate increases have drawn criticism from consumer and environmental advocates. Consumer advocacy groups, like Illinois PIRG, oppose the increases and have argued the utilities are spending money irresponsibly. PIRG’s director, Abe Scarr, said that he expects the commission to modify the recommendations “to be more consumer conscious, more climate conscious.” Illinois PIRG Director Abe Scarr offers public comment at an Aug. 1 ICC hearing on Peoples Gas’ requested utility rate increase.  “The big question is what changes will the commissioners actually make,” Scarr said. Scarr and other advocates have been watching the commissioners closely throughout the rate case process for hints as to how they might rule. The commissioners are all relatively recent appointees of Gov. J.B. Pritzker, with three having joined the board in the spring. One of the major concerns in the gas cases — and the infrastructure spending driving the rate increases — is the electrification of residential heating and cooking across the U.S. Advocates say this could lead to a future where companies create “stranded assets,” meaning infrastructure that is no longer used. But the gas companies have defended their requested increases by pointing to the fact that much of the infrastructure spending is required for safety reasons and by federal law. “The company’s cost of service is now increasing due to continued investments in our system infrastructure to meet new federal compliance-related regulations and industry best practices that help ensure system-wide reliability,” Allison Gregoire, a Nicor Gas spokesperson, said in an email to Capitol News Illinois. The ICC has several levels to control the price of gas utility bills, with one of the most significant being setting utilities’ “return on equity” — in other words, the profit that’s returned to shareholders. This has been a major point of contention throughout the 11-month rate case process, with advocates, companies, the state’s attorney general, and the staff of the ICC all proposing different potential rates. Ultimately, the administrative judges overseeing the cases sided with ICC staff on their recommended profit rates. For Nicor and Ameren, they recommended a 9.89% return to shareholders. For Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas — which are owned by the same parent company, the administrative law judge recommended a 9.83% return. While lower than the companies’ requested profit rates — all of which were above 10% — the recommended rates were higher than any proposed by consumer advocates. The Citizens Utility Board, a nonprofit created by the General Assembly in the 1980s to advocate for consumers before the ICC, was part of a coalition of organizations that argued for a 9.5% profit rate for Peoples Gas and Ameren and 9.4% for Nicor. Yessenia Balcazar of the Southeast Environmental Task Force holds a sign at a March 27 protest of Peoples Gas’ proposed rate increase in downtown Chicago.  “Too often, they (the ICC) side with utilities, especially when it comes to the profit rates for shareholders,” CUB director Sarah Moskowitz said in an interview. Utilities also say a wider profit margin allows them to more easily attract investments and conduct business transactions. “The requested rate of return will give us access to affordable project financing with lower debt costs, and those savings will be passed on to our customers,” Tucker Kennedy, Ameren’s director of communications, said in a statement. Beyond the gas rate cases, the ICC is also considering two complex cases that will determine the price of electricity for Ameren Illinois and Commonwealth Edison, the two largest electric utilities in the state. These cases involve multi-year rate plans as well as a grid planning process, both of which were outlined in the 2021 Climate and Equitable Jobs Act. These multi-year plans are expected to increase electricity rates for most Illinois utility customers over the next four years, with ComEd’s plan increasing rates by $200 per year by 2027 and Ameren’s increasing rates by $300 per year over that span. The ICC commissioners will likely lower these increases somewhat by the time they vote on a final order in these cases later this year. Protestors gather outside the offices of Peoples Gas in Chicago at a March 27 protest against proposed gas rate increases.  The commission is also considering permitting two controversial pipelines that are designed to transport carbon dioxide for eventual sequestration in underground geologic structures in central Illinois. In addition to ideological and political fights surrounding the pipelines, there is also an ongoing legal question of what role states should play in regulating CO2 transport. While the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Material Administration has the authority to determine safety, some states factor that into their regulatory structures. This was one of the main concerns cited by South Dakota regulators when they quashed a permit application from Navigator CO2 for a pipeline that would have terminated in Illinois. Last week, Navigator withdrew its Illinois application from ICC consideration but noted it may reapply.  Electric cars have plenty of advantages over gas-powered cars, like never having to stop at a pump, improved efficiency, lower maintenance needs, and reduced emissions. Of course, gas cars have advantages like fast refueling and no heavy batteries. But when it comes to saving you money, which type of car has the edge? Edmunds takes a deep dive into the world of electric cars to determine whether EVs can save you money and where they might actually cost you more.  Let's start with EV cost of ownership. Gasoline-powered cars have a lot of intricate moving parts. In fact, a vehicle with an internal combustion engine (ICE) can have 100 times as many moving parts in its drivetrain as an electric car. All of those parts require maintenance and upkeep, including regular oil changes and larger maintenance needs at regular intervals to service belts, timing chains, spark plugs and more. Of course, EVs still wear out tires, brake pads, windshield wipers and other common components, so they're not maintenance-free. The U.S. Department of Energy determined that, on average, an EV costs 4 cents less per mile to maintain if you factor in all scheduled services. That adds up to $4,000 in savings if you keep an EV for 100,000 miles. And that number only takes into account regular service, not milestones like a 100,000-mile service that can cost several thousand dollars or other repairs and maintenance issues that can arise with gas cars. A recent report found that the average "check engine light" repair cost was $400 in 2022 and that the most common repair was a catalytic converter replacement at a cost of over $1,300. With fewer moving parts, EVs have fewer parts that can fail and incur large repair bills. But even with all the added upkeep gasoline cars require, there's one big variable for EV maintenance that concerns a lot of potential buyers.   Electric car batteries gradually lose their ability to store charge over time, meaning less driving range as the vehicle ages. Eventually, batteries will need to be replaced due to loss of capacity or for other reasons. This cost will come later in the vehicle's life and is unlikely to affect the original owner. The federal government requires that EV batteries be warrantied for a minimum of eight years or 100,000 miles, and some manufacturers offer more, up to 10 years and 150,000 miles. That warranty includes replacement if your battery capacity drops past a certain percent, usually 70%, of the original capacity. On average, electric cars lose about 2% of their capacity per year, so you probably won't need a replacement during the warranty period. New-car buyers keep their cars for an average of about eight to nine years, so they're unlikely to have to deal with battery replacement at all. What about people who plan to buy or own an EV that's 13 to 15 years old? In 2022, the average price for an EV battery was $153 per kWh. That means even a relatively small battery, like the 40-kWh battery pack in a standard-range Nissan Leaf, could cost more than $6,000 to replace. That's a significant added cost. The good news is that battery prices have fallen a lot, coming down almost 90% since 2008, according to the DOE. Many people expect prices to continue to fall, but even at half the current price, there's no question that a battery replacement is a pricey proposition. Ultimately, even with this added cost factored in, an EV can be cheaper to maintain over its lifetime than an ICE vehicle. The contrast is the relative certainty of battery replacement costs by 200,000 miles versus the uncertainty around what major mechanical repairs an ICE vehicle may need in that same period. Owning a car with over 100,000 miles is always going to come with more maintenance costs, EV or ICE.   Fuel is one of the major potential cost savings for EV owners, but how much you'll save depends a lot on how and when you charge your car. Charging at home is the surest way to save. In December of 2022, average residential electric rates hit almost 15 cents per kWh. The average observed efficiency of EVs that have undergone Edmunds' real-world range test is about 32 kWh/100 miles. That makes for a cost of $4.80 to travel 100 miles. Over that same time period, gas averaged about $3.45 per gallon. That means that if you wanted to pay the same amount for 100 miles of travel in a gas-powered car, you'd need a car capable of returning almost 72 miles per gallon. The average EPA-estimated fuel economy of new cars is closer to 25 mpg, making for a cost of $13.80 per 100 miles. So an EV would save $9 for every 100 miles driven, or put another way, it would save the average American almost $1,300 in fuel costs annually. Of course, utility rates and fuel prices fluctuate both over time and regionally. Read our deep dive into the cost of charging an EV to learn more. If you use public DC fast chargers, the equation changes, especially with time-of-use rates. Using a Level 3 charger during peak hours can cost 45 cents per kWh or more, especially if you're not subscribed to a charging plan and charge as a guest. That triples the cost per 100 miles when compared to home charging, reaching $14.40 at 15 cents per kWh — more than our example gas vehicle. Subscribing to an EV charging network and charging off peak can potentially lower that cost to less than $7 per 100 miles of range, so it is still possible to use public fast chargers and save. To figure out if fueling an electric car will save you money, you need to ask where you'll do most of your charging. If you can charge overnight at home, an electric car will almost certainly cost less to fuel than even the most efficient gas vehicle.  Setting up a charging station at your home has other benefits beyond cost savings. If you can charge at home, having an electric car as a commuter vehicle can save you time. Because you can plug in at night, you leave every day with a "full tank" and never need to stop at a gas station. That's also a bit less stress since you don't have to worry about where a gas stop fits into your schedule or handle public pumps. Some newer electric cars can also act as a battery backup for your home should you lose power. Considering EV battery packs are almost always larger than the daily energy use of the average household, an EV can keep vital appliances running for several days if needed. On their own, battery backups can be expensive, but they're much safer than generators that emit carbon monoxide. Getting a home battery backup and transportation in one is a convenience gas-powered cars can't offer. The average price of an electric car is higher than the average price of a gas-powered passenger vehicle. Add to that other one-time costs like installing a home charging station, and even with the potential fuel and maintenance savings, it may seem like the overall cost won't be significantly less. But there are a number of programs designed to help offset that upfront cost. The most well-known is the federal tax credit, under which qualified buyers can receive a $7,500 tax credit for purchasing a qualifying vehicle. There's also a federal credit of up to $4,000 for used EVs. Check out our full breakdown of the current tax credits to learn more. Beyond that, several states offer their own incentives or rebates, some of which offer credits that are applied at the time of sale. There are also state, local and utility-funded programs to help offset the cost of installing a home charging station. Depending on your situation, where you live, and what vehicle options you're considering, you may be able to use incentives and rebates to keep your cost of getting started with an EV from pushing up your net cost of ownership. Electric cars have advantages over gas-powered vehicles beyond their lower cost to operate. For starters, much more of the energy you pay for is actually used by an electric car compared to a gas car.   Due to the way internal combustion engines operate, they end up wasting a lot of the energy stored in gasoline. Only about a quarter of the energy in gasoline actually winds up moving the vehicle. Most of the energy is lost in the form of waste heat, and the rest is lost to friction and parasitic drag from the drivetrain. Electric cars are significantly better at using the energy stored in batteries, especially since they don't generate waste heat or experience as much parasitic loss. Also, electric cars can recapture energy while slowing down and return it to the battery to use again, giving them a big efficiency boost. (Being able to recapture energy is also part of how hybrids gain efficiency over regular gas cars.) In the end, electric cars have an efficiency of about 90%, massively better than even the most efficient internal combustion powertrains.   Electric motors have two advantages over internal combustion engines that improve the day-to-day driving experience of electric vehicles. Electric motors can make consistent power from a standstill all the way up to a significantly higher rpm than gas engines. Gas engines need to get up to a certain speed before they can produce max power, and their complicated construction limits how fast they can spin. That means electric cars have instantaneous torque and don't need to change gears. Whether you're at a stop or traveling at speed, electric motors can instantly increase the amount of power they're sending to the wheels. This makes electric cars feel quicker in typical driving than gas cars, and it's partly why so many electric cars do accelerate more quickly than their gas competitors. Electric cars also don't need to change gears the way gas-powered cars do to keep their engines in the meat of the powerband. That means whether you're accelerating up an on-ramp, climbing a hill, or passing slower-moving traffic, you won't experience any jerky shifting and the car will apply power smoothly and consistently as you accelerate. Electric cars are an important way to reduce both local pollution that's harmful to your health and carbon emissions responsible for global warming. Since electric cars don't rely on combustion to move, they don't generate exhaust gases or particulate pollution from burning fuel while driving. That makes them much better for local air quality, reducing types of pollution that have been linked to things like cancer, cardiac disease, neurological impairment, and developmental delays in children. Electric cars also produce fewer greenhouse gas emissions over their lifetimes than gas-powered vehicles. Building an electric car is resource-intensive, especially due to their large battery packs, which can result in up to 80% more carbon emissions than building an internal combustion engine vehicle. However, once an electric car is on the road, it's responsible for significantly fewer carbon emissions than a gas vehicle. The U.S. Department of Energy says that on average a gas-powered vehicle produces three times the annual carbon emissions of an EV, and that average includes EVs charged with electricity from nonrenewable sources like coal and natural gas. Because EVs are so efficient in how they use energy, even electric cars charged from dirty energy are responsible for fewer net emissions than gas-burning cars. Taking into account manufacturing emissions, it takes an average of just 15,000 miles on the road for an EV to start reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared to a gasoline vehicle. Switching to EVs can also help accelerate our independence from fossil fuels, as electric cars don't require fossil fuels to stay on the road. And it's not just independence from oil. As the cost of energy from renewable sources like wind and solar power continues to fall in comparison to coal and natural gas, switching to green energy becomes a more economical solution to increasing demand for electricity to power EVs. And as the grid continues to shift more toward renewable energy, the environmental impact of electric cars will improve.   Electric cars can cost less to own, especially if you can charge at home, qualify for tax and other incentives, and don't plan on keeping your EV for more than a decade and a half. If you plan on using public fast chargers or driving an older EV that may need an out-of-warranty battery replacement, an electric car might not be a more economical option.   This story was produced by Edmunds and reviewed and distributed by Stacker Media.   Capitol News Illinois is a nonprofit, nonpartisan news service covering state government. Get local news delivered to your inbox! The president said he saw the establishment of the Springfield monument as an opportunity to recognize a significant moment of the Black commu… SPRINGFIELD — Members of Sonya Massey’s family and their attorneys called a news conference Wednesday to push for federal and state legislatio… Pritzker has now signed more than 460 bills without issuing any vetoes. President Joe Biden is set to sign a proclamation to designate a national monument at the Springfield site of the 1908 race riot, which fueled… Ryan Traiteur, 14, earned pro status in the yard game last year and worked his way up to the No. 2 spot.    Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.