After a months-long back-and-forth with state regulators over its proposal to raise rates, utility company Evergy has agreed to significantly lower its ask — at least for now — for Kansans who rely on its services in the Kansas City suburbs. The Kansas Corporation Commission, which oversees utility rate changes, announced Friday afternoon a proposed settlement approved by the power company. It comes one month after the state commission’s staff objected to a rate increase proposed by Evergy, saying the company’s request was unjustified. Under the new proposal, Evergy customers in the defined Kansas Metro coverage area, which includes much of Johnson and parts of Wyandotte counties, would see their monthly bills drop by $6.07 on average. The coverage area also serves customers in Douglas, Franklin, Miami, Osage, Anderson and Linn counties. Those in the Kansas Central part of its coverage area, which reaches past Wichita but still overlaps with some parts of western Johnson County, will still see an increase — though a much smaller one. The average hike is expected to be $4.64 per month for customers there, which was initially projected to go as high as $14.24 per month. The settlement agreement still requires final approval by the KCC, a three-member panel appointed by the governor. A hearing on the matter is scheduled to take place in Topeka on Oct. 9 as the commission faces a late December deadline to render its decision. Evergy was projected to see a $218 million net increase to its revenues through the rate changes. It now stands to see a net increase of $41 million, according to KCC, though the settlement agreement leaves the door open for Evergy to seek rate increases again in the near future. Under the settlement, the parties also agreed that Evergy should be permitted to petition for another rate increase next year, as the utility has said those may be needed to accommodate Panasonic’s new battery plant in De Soto. In its initial rate-increase request, Evergy had said the company wanted to make adjustments to accommodate the power load for the plant. Evergy had argued that the demand, which would double that of its largest customer, would require two new substations, upgrades to three current substations and work on 31 miles of transmission lines. In testimony, KCC staff did not recommend approval for the abbreviated case, citing uncertainty around the Panasonic project. In a statement Friday, Evergy CEO David Campbell called the settlement “a very strong result for our customers.” “As a result of this settlement, average retail rates in Kansas will have increased just one percent, cumulatively, since 2017,” Campbell said. “And Evergy will recover investments made to improve the electric grid and build a cleaner, more reliable energy future for our Kansas customers, all while improving our record of regional rate competitiveness.” The Star’s Katie Bernard, Natalie Wallington and Jonathan Shorman contributed to this report. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.