eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 William Yates / Chicago Tribune Perched high on the Sears Tower, workmen go about the task of constructing the world's tallest building on April 13, 1973. Carl Hugare / Chicago Tribune With a heart-stopping view of Chicago beneath him, Dan Goodwin completes his 100-story journey to the top of the John Hancock Center on Nov. 11, 1981. Charles Osgood / Chicago Tribune Workers on top of the Sears Tower help steer the final beam to its resting place on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Seemingly oblivious to the height or the view, a welder works near the top of the 110-story Sears Tower on April 13, 1973. Walter Kale / Chicago Tribune The ground floor area of the Sears Tower where a late night "topping off" beer party ended up in a brawl between the steel workers and the cement mixers on May 1, 1973. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Willis Tower reflects the morning sunrise in downtown Chicago on April 26, 2023. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune People eat and relax in the newly renovated, multilevel Catalog retail and amenity space inside Willis Tower on May 19, 2022. Charles Osgood/Chicago Tribune Construction continued on the Sears Tower on Nov. 6, 1972, in Chicago. The John Hancock Center is seen in the background. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune People spend time in the newly renovated, multilevel Catalog retail and amenity space inside Willis Tower. James O'Leary/Chicago Tribune An aerial view shows the "topping out" of the construction on the top floors of the Sears Tower on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune A view of Catalog at Willis Tower on March  15, 2022. Ernie Cox Jr. / Chicago Tribune After failing to climb the John Hancock Center on Nov. 1, 1981, Dan Goodwin gave it a second try on Nov. 11. Firefighters sprayed him with water in an attempt to stop him, but he eventually was allowed to proceed. Michael Budrys / Chicago Tribune A spectator uses binoculars to follow the ascent of Dan Goodwin as he climbs the John Hancock Center on Nov. 11, 1981, in Chicago. Jose More / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin, still in the custom-made Spider-Man suit he wore when he scaled the Sears Tower the day before, explains his climb to reporters after his release from jail on May 26, 1981. Chris Walker / Chicago Tribune Chief dispatcher Brandon Caple at his desk, June 18, 2012 at the operations center for United Airlines in Willis Tower. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune Willis Tower reflects the morning sunrise in downtown Chicago on April 26, 2023. It's been 50 years since the last beam of building, then known as Sears Tower, was put in place, and becoming the tallest building in Chicago. Don Casper / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin, 25, aka "Spider Dan," dines at the famous Pump Room with a friend after scaling the Sears Tower on May 26, 1981. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Visitors walk through Willis Tower at the Jackson Boulevard entrance. Dave Nystrom / Chicago Tribune Sears Tower, designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, is the worlds tallest building on May 18, 1973, in Chicago. Chicago Tribune Construction begins at the site for the Sears Tower in Chicago in December 1970. Jose More / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin, still in the custom-made Spider-Man suit he wore when he scaled the Sears Tower the day before, explains his climb to reporters after his release from jail on May 26, 1981. Goodwin was charged with disorderly conduct. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune The outdoor terrace of the newly renovated Willis Tower is seen here. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune People pass by the Atmospheric wave wall, an art installation  by artist Olafur Eliasson, outside Willis Tower on May 19, 2022. William Yates / Chicago Tribune A worker navigates the Sears Tower as the building nears completion on April 13, 1973. Bob Fila / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin clings to his suction cup apparatus as he waits for firefighters to extend a ladder following his aborted climb of the John Hancock Center on Nov. 1, 1981. Goodwin would come back on Nov. 11 to finish the climb. Jose More / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin shakes hands with a fan as he talks to reporters after his release from jail on May 26, 1981, a day after he climbed the Sears Tower. John Bartley / Chicago Tribune The Sears Tower from the air on May 23, 1974, in Chicago. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune A view of the outdoor terrace at Willis Tower. Walter Kale / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin, clad in a custom-made Spider-Man suit, ascends Chicago's Sears Tower on May 25, 1981, as would-be rescuers are lowered on a scaffold. But the 25-year-old daredevil just passed them by and waved on his way to the top of what was then the world's tallest building. Anne Cuscak / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin signs an autograph for Viola Novak while in court for an appearance on May 18, 1982. Novak said she watched Goodwin climb the Hancock Center on Nov 11, 1981. Jose More / Chicago Tribune Daniel Goodwin, known as Spider Dan, is released from jail after climbing the Sears Tower on May 26, 1981. Arthur Walker / Chicago Tribune At least 200 people watched as Dan Goodwin climbed the Sears Tower on May 25, 1981. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Workers construct the 106th floor of the Sears Tower on April 13, 1973, in Chicago. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune A large glass dome covers the Willis Tower lobby as seen on March  15, 2022. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Robert E. Vance, 56, of Cicero, an ironworker for US Steel American Bridge Division, is atop the Sears Tower on April 13, 1973, in Chicago. Earl Gustie / Chicago Tribune Mayor Richard Daley and other dignitaries sign the "topping 
 off" girder at the Sears Tower on May 3, 1973. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Beehives house bees on an outdoor terrace at Willis Tower. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Visitors to Willis Tower use the escalators to access food hall vendors on March 15, 2022. James OLeary / Chicago Tribune An aerial view of the topping out of the Sears Tower on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin smiles after he was sentenced to a year of probation during a hearing at the Daley Center on Nov. 19, 1981. John Bartley / Chicago Tribune Workmen sing a song at the topping-out ceremony, which they wrote during the construction of the Sears Tower, May 3, 1973, in Chicago. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Visitors to Willis Tower dine inside Catalog on March 15, 2022. Walter Neal / Chicago Tribune People watch construction at the site of the future Sears Tower on June 3, 1971, in downtown Chicago. NANCY STONE / CHICAGO TRIBUNE Workers stream into the Franklin Street entrance of the Sears Tower in the morning on July 31, 2002, through the metal detectors that were added after Sept. 11 attacks and along with additional security guards and Chicago police officers. Terrence Antonio James / Chicago Tribune Benjamin Altman, CEO and chief investment officer at the financial firm Altman Advisors, in his company's offices on the 97th floor of Willis Tower on April 20, 2023. James OLeary / Chicago Tribune An aerial view of the topping out of the Sears Tower on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. Frank Hanes / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin gives a thumbs-up after leaving a packed courtroom at the Civic Center on Nov. 12, 1981, a day after he climbed the John Hancock Center. Michael Budrys / Chicago Tribune After failing to climb the John Hancock Center on Nov. 1, 1981, Dan Goodwin gave it a second try on Nov. 11, 1981. He encountered resistance from firefighters who sprayed him with high-pressure hoses, then broke out windows and held long poles in his path to block his progress. They brought him to a temporary standstill, but then-police Superintendent Richard Brzeczek ordered that he be allowed to continue. He finished his climb to the top of the 100-story skyscraper and then was immediately arrested. Ernie Cox Jr. / Chicago Tribune After failing to climb the John Hancock Center on Nov. 1, 1981, Dan Goodwin gave it a second try on Nov. 11, 1981. Arthur Walker / Chicago Tribune Victor Magic, 35, a tagline man in the raising gang, is the first man to stand on the 104th floor of the Sears Tower, the tallest building in the world on March 13, 1973. William Yates / Chicago Tribune A worker atop the Sears Tower on April 13, 1973. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune People walk through the newly renovated Wacker Drive entrance of Willis Tower. Arthur Walker/Chicago Tribune The view from the 104th floor of the Sears Tower as construction continues on March 13, 1973. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune A person walks up the stairs of the newly renovated Wacker Drive entrance of Willis Tower on May 19, 2022. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune People hang out in the newly renovated, multilevel Catalog retail and amenity space inside Willis Tower. Walter Kale / Chicago Tribune The Sears Tower is under construction on Nov. 24, 1972, as seen from the University of Illinois Circle Campus at Morgan and Harrison streets in Chicago. Roy Hall / Chicago Tribune A party atmosphere prevailed as a Memorial Day crowd watched Dan Goodwin climb the Sears Tower on May 25, 1981. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune Catalog, a newly renovated multilevel retail and amenity space inside Willis Tower, is seen on May 19, 2022 Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune The lobby and food vendors as seen inside Catalog at Willis Tower in Chicago on March 15, 2022. Arthur Walker / Chicago Tribune John Rukavina, of South Holland, the superintendent of the TV tower raising job, works to free a frozen pulley at the top of the permanent mast base 1,522 feet above the street on the Sears Tower on Dec. 14, 1973. Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune Signage helps visitors navigate new amenities inside Willis Tower on March 15, 2022. Arthur Walker / Chicago Tribune It's a long way up — 1,370 feet to be exact. The men working on the Sears Tower, 233 S. Wacker Drive, reached the 104th floor on March 13, 1973, making the structure the tallest in the world. The second tallest building is the 1,3500-foot World Trade Center in New York. The Sears Tower will be 110 floors with topping out May 3, 1973. Dave Nystrom / Chicago Tribune The new site for the Sears Tower as seen from 16 floors up looking east across Wacker Drive in Chicago on Dec. 22, 1969. William Yates / Chicago Tribune The topping out of the Sears Tower on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. Ernie Cox Jr. / Chicago Tribune Gawkers watch as Dan Goodwin climbs the John Hancock Center on Nov. 11, 1981. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Robert E. Vance, 56, of Cicero, top right, an ironworker for U.S. Steel American Bridge Division, works with others on the Sears Tower on April 13, 1973, in Chicago. Charles Osgood / Chicago Tribune Workmen guide the final steel girder into position to top off the Sears Tower at 1,454 feet on May 3, 1973, in Chicago. Jose More / Chicago Tribune Dan Goodwin is released from jail on May 26, 1981, after climbing the Sears Tower the previous day. William Yates / Chicago Tribune Workers atop the Sears Tower on April 13, 1973. Perched high on the Sears Tower, workmen go about the task of constructing the world's tallest building on April 13, 1973. On a windy spring day 50 years ago this week, John Porzuczek helped guide the final piece of steel into place on what was then known as Chicago’s Sears Tower.Placement of the beam — painted white and signed by thousands of Sears employees — ended nearly three years of construction that required Porzuczek and other ironworkers to climb up and down the steadily rising tower, wearing up to 70 pounds of tools around their waists. They frequently raced each other, Porzuczek said.Porzuczek spent his days walking along the steel girders on the tower’s highest reaches, an elite assignment. Safety standards were looser in the early 1970s, he recalled.“If it was windy, we would crawl, but we hardly ever tied off,” Porzuczek said. “Now, you can’t walk around like that without a harness.”

Porzuczek, 73, said he still feels pride when he sees the tower.“It gives you a real sense of accomplishment,” he said.
Workers on top of the Sears Tower help steer the final beam to its resting place on May 3, 1973, in Chicago.The 110-story skyscraper at 233 S. Wacker Drive was topped out May 3, 1973. It ended the Empire State Building’s four-decade reign as the world’s tallest building and transformed the West Loop into a glittering office corridor.“Along with the Standard Oil Building, it set the tone for the entire market,” said Goldie Wolfe Miller, who spent decades leasing downtown buildings. “All of a sudden, we became a mecca of first-class quality office buildings.”Now called Willis Tower, the building has been a trendsetter since its debut. After starting life as a headquarters for Sears, Roebuck & Co., the building saw its namesake tenant relocate to the suburbs. Along with the rest of downtown, it suffered other blows, including fears raised by the terrorist attacks of 2001 and the Great Recession. It’s always bounced back.But the tower now faces what might be its biggest test. The pandemic shuttered downtown and proved companies could operate with employees working from home several days a week.Kathleen McCarthy, global co-head of Blackstone Real Estate, said she’s confident Willis Tower will continue thriving. Her company plunked down $1.3 billion for the building in 2015 and then spent more than $500 million modernizing it.“At 50, we all need a freshening up,” said Todd Heiser, co-managing director of Gensler, the renovation’s lead architectural firm.Javier Quintana de Uña, CEO of the nonprofit Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, said he’s optimistic Willis will get through this crisis.“This is a building architects have always studied, and it always keeps ahead of everything else,” he said. “That’s why it’s still one of the most respected buildings in the world.”Engineering featThe first step in creating Willis Tower came when structural engineer Fazlur Khan convinced his firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, to buy its first computer. The new machine filled an entire room.“When this thing would run, it would click and clack like a mechanical monster,” said John Zils, a project engineer who worked on the tower. But the computer allowed Khan to do calculations in 30 minutes that would previously have taken months.Khan understood the traditional way of putting together tall buildings, using interior columns, was inefficient. He pioneered using a vertical tube of steel or concrete, allowing big, open spaces, and finished the first such structure, an apartment building, in 1966. He then partnered with Skidmore Owings architect Bruce Graham to create the John Hancock  Center, after which the duo launched Sears Tower, their most ambitious project. To satisfy the retailer’s desire for more than 4 million square feet, Khan proposed bundling nine steel tubes.“It’s like a tick-tack-toe board with nine cells,” Zils said. “It’s a much stiffer structure using much less material.”The tower only needed 76,000 tons of steel, he added. Built the old-fashioned way, it could have needed twice as much and cost far more.“That was the big breakthrough,” Zils said. “Without the computer, who knows where we would have gone.”That blueprint also allowed Graham and Khan to design more than a plain box. They narrowed the structure by making the tubes different heights, sculpting it into the now-familiar shape.Sears originally had no intention of building the world’s tallest building, Zils said. The retailer just wanted to replace the old Homan Square headquarters with offices near downtown’s Metra train lines. After buying land at 233 South Wacker Drive, Sears hired Skidmore Owings to craft a plan that would give it several million square feet on the parcel.“Sears was a very frugal operation that didn’t spend any extra money for anything,” Zils said. “They were not interested in being an innovator, they just wanted something that was rock solid.”Sears also wanted an extra several million square feet of space, enough to handle expected growth throughout the 1970s and 1980s, he added. The retailer planned to rent out those upper-floor offices to other firms at first, but since few companies would want massive floor plates like Sears, Graham and Khan realized the building needed a massive base and narrow top.“It just kept getting taller and thinner, and soon we had what would be the tallest building in the world,” Zils said.
Construction continued on the Sears Tower on Nov. 6, 1972, in Chicago. The John Hancock Center is seen in the background.Two factors convinced Sears to make history and greenlight the more than 4 million square foot building, he added. Khan’s design meant the structure would be immensely strong, allowing heavy floor loads, and including a Skydeck for tourists meant a lucrative stream of visitors.“That tipped the scale, and they finally gave the go-ahead,” he said.Sears moved fast after making its decision. Although Graham and Khan had just one drawing that depicted the entire building, it was enough for Carl Morse, the construction manager hired by Sears, to shake hands on a deal with the president of U.S. Steel to buy 76,000 tons of steel, mostly from its plant in Gary and put men like Porzuczek to work.The work was sometimes punishing, especially in winter,  Porzuczek said. The hard labor didn’t bother him.But the job wasn’t easy.“I did not see him fall,” Porzuczek said of his friend and fellow crew member Jack De Klerk. On April 14, 1973, just three weeks before construction was complete, the two were sitting on a girder above the 100th floor about 25 feet apart when a sling used to raise steel beams caught the 28-year-old De Klerk and pulled him over.He fell about 35 feet into the building, and more  beams lay below. Porzuczek said it’s likely he hit one.De Klerk wasn’t the only one to die. Four elevator workers were killed April 11 when fire swept through a shaft.
The ground floor area of the Sears Tower where a late night “topping off” beer party ended up in a brawl between the steel workers and the cement mixers on May 1, 1973.Porzuczek went on to help build the James R. Thompson  Center and work on the Chicago Board of Trade expansion, among other projects. He retired to Las Vegas after a 2001 injury.Spider DanOne of the most unforgettable days at the tower’s took place over Memorial Day weekend in 1981. Early on May 25 of that year, a 25-year-old rock climber from Maine climbed a ladder held by Lakeview resident James Hackett and rolled onto the roof over the Wacker Drive entrance. He sat down for a moment to rest in the darkness.“I looked up and just saw that black monolith going up into the clouds,” said Dan Goodwin, who was equipped with hooks, leg loops and suction cups he designed.As the sun rose, a gathering crowd of spectators was treated to an improbable sight: a man dressed as Spider-Man inching up the world’s tallest building.“It was a snap for him — almost like walking up stairs,” a Chicago police officer told the Tribune that day.“My son, who was 5 years old at the time, said, ‘Daddy, you should do it as Spider-Man,'” Goodwin said. “I also wanted to reassure people that I’m just a climber, not a terrorist.”“I chose Memorial Day weekend because I didn’t want to interrupt business and get people mad at me,” he added.But Chicago Fire Commissioner William Blair got plenty mad. He used a window washing platform to block Goodwin midway, and that’s when the situation got even more dangerous.“I was hanging by one suction cup that was slipping and about to pop off,” Goodwin said. “I felt like an astronaut stepping out into space. Inside, I was super calm, collected and pretended I was right near the ground, but I wasn’t near the ground, I was 660 feet above it.”That dangerous moment passed.“Someone called down and said, ‘we got orders to let you go to the top because someone’s going to get killed here,'” Goodwin said. “And I thought, ‘yeah, me.'”
Daniel Goodwin, known as Spider Dan, is released from jail after climbing the Sears Tower on May 26, 1981.He was arrested after reaching the roof, but police officers greeted him as a conquering hero.“The cops were throwing their arms around me, saying that was the greatest thing they’d ever seen,” he said.The tower was undamaged, said Goodwin, and he was later fined $35.“From that point on, I was nicknamed Spider Dan.”A successSears Tower quickly become a symbol of Chicago’s corporate might, according to Mike Duncan, a principal with Cresa Chicago, a real estate firm. Not only did it have Sears filling its bottom half, but other well-known companies, many looking to do business with the retailer, began leasing upper floors.“Sears helped fill the tower by saying, ‘Goldman Sachs, if you want to issue our bonds and stocks, you should be a tenant in our building in Chicago,'” said Duncan, whose wife was a Sears employee in the 1970s who signed the final beam.It was also an era of mammoth construction projects, including the 1,136-foot Standard Oil Building, finished in 1973 and now named Aon Center,  and the 850-foot First National Plaza, completed in 1969 and now called Chase Tower.But the oil shocks and inflation of the 1970s weakened Chicago’s muscular economy and its market for new supertall buildings. And Sears’ position as middle-America’s top retailer  grew shaky.Its plans to expand into the upper floors were set aside. And after helping create modern downtown Chicago, the company then helped reverse the trend. In 1992, Sears moved to Hoffman Estates, joining other firms such as McDonalds and AT&T in choosing suburban office campuses.The 1,451-foot Willis Tower lost its crown as world’s tallest in 1998, when it was surpassed by Malaysia’s Petronas Twin Towers, and the American title in 2014 when New York City’s One World Trade Center was completed. After decades of  construction in Asian countries, it’s now the 23rd tallest in the world.
Workers stream into the Franklin Street entrance of the Sears Tower in the morning on July 31, 2002, through the metal detectors that were added after Sept. 11 attacks and along with additional security guards and Chicago police officers.But the tower, much like downtown, proved to be a survivor, Duncan said.Duncan partly credits Graham and Khan’s design. Its construction allowed heavy loads and reduced sway. And the 1993 terrorist bombing at New York’s World Trade Center  heightened interest in buildings that could withstand shocks.The 2001 terrorist attacks at  New York’s World Trade Center kicked off new worries about supertall buildings. Once again, vacancies opened throughout the tower.But United Airlines began moving its operations center from Elk Grove Township to the building in 2010, and by 2012 it established its headquarters there, taking about 20% of the building and becoming the largest tenant.
Chief dispatcher Brandon Caple at his desk, June 18, 2012 at the operations center for United Airlines in Willis Tower.Willis Group also signed a lease in 2009, paying extra to name the landmark building Willis Tower, a change many older Chicagoans still don’t accept.COVID may be Willis Tower’s biggest challenge yet. Chicago companies shed millions of square feet of office space, leaving more than one-fifth vacant, according to Colliers International.Willis Tower wasn’t immune. After cutting thousands of jobs, United  decided in 2021 to vacate several floors, and more companies could follow suit.But according to CoStar  Willis Tower is still more than 88% leased, and McCarthy says Blackstone also signed major lease agreements last year, including one with pharmaceutical giant Abbott Labs, and the $500 million makeover will keep the building competitive.“Willis Tower, frankly, when it was built, was a bit of a fortress, and that’s because when towers like this were created, they were monuments to corporations,” said Gensler’s Heiser.Gensler opened up the complex and transformed its empty plaza into Catalog, five levels of retail, restaurants and a terrace  for working or relaxing outdoors. Whole floors were dedicated to amenities such as fitness centers and a private club, all designed to make office work comfortable.“Today we need buildings that support the whole human,” Heiser said.The prospect of a makeover brought Ben Altman and his family-owned investment firm Altman Advisors to Willis Tower in 2016.It was no accident that the firm took nearly 1,000 square feet on the 97th floor. Altman’s grandfather worked for Sears as a shipping clerk for 30 years, and reaching the top of its former headquarters fulfills a long-term goal.“We’re from humble West Side roots, so this was the American Dream for us,” he said.
Benjamin Altman, CEO and chief investment officer at the financial firm Altman Advisors, in his company’s offices on the 97th floor of Willis Tower on April 20, 2023.Seyfarth Shaw’s Chicago office moved in 2017 from the Central Loop to Willis. The firm’s  offices allow natural light to flow through. And being on the 80th floor has advantages.“We’re the highest law firm in the city, and that’s pretty cool,” said Tracy Billows, co-managing partner.Billows said she also feels a personal connection to the building, leading her to make a common mistake.“I was born and raised in Chicago, so I occasionally slip up and call it Sears,” she said.brogal@chicagotribune.com Placement of the beam — painted white and signed by thousands of Sears employees — ended nearly three years of construction that required Porzuczek and other ironworkers to climb up and down the steadily rising tower, wearing up to 70 pounds of tools around their waists. They frequently raced each other, Porzuczek said. Porzuczek spent his days walking along the steel girders on the tower’s highest reaches, an elite assignment. Safety standards were looser in the early 1970s, he recalled. “If it was windy, we would crawl, but we hardly ever tied off,” Porzuczek said. “Now, you can’t walk around like that without a harness.” Porzuczek, 73, said he still feels pride when he sees the tower. “It gives you a real sense of accomplishment,” he said. The 110-story skyscraper at 233 S. Wacker Drive was topped out May 3, 1973. It ended the Empire State Building’s four-decade reign as the world’s tallest building and transformed the West Loop into a glittering office corridor. “Along with the Standard Oil Building, it set the tone for the entire market,” said Goldie Wolfe Miller, who spent decades leasing downtown buildings. “All of a sudden, we became a mecca of first-class quality office buildings.” Now called Willis Tower, the building has been a trendsetter since its debut. After starting life as a headquarters for Sears, Roebuck & Co., the building saw its namesake tenant relocate to the suburbs. Along with the rest of downtown, it suffered other blows, including fears raised by the terrorist attacks of 2001 and the Great Recession. It’s always bounced back. But the tower now faces what might be its biggest test. The pandemic shuttered downtown and proved companies could operate with employees working from home several days a week. Kathleen McCarthy, global co-head of Blackstone Real Estate, said she’s confident Willis Tower will continue thriving. Her company plunked down $1.3 billion for the building in 2015 and then spent more than $500 million modernizing it. “At 50, we all need a freshening up,” said Todd Heiser, co-managing director of Gensler, the renovation’s lead architectural firm. Javier Quintana de Uña, CEO of the nonprofit Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, said he’s optimistic Willis will get through this crisis. “This is a building architects have always studied, and it always keeps ahead of everything else,” he said. “That’s why it’s still one of the most respected buildings in the world.” Engineering feat The first step in creating Willis Tower came when structural engineer Fazlur Khan convinced his firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, to buy its first computer. The new machine filled an entire room. “When this thing would run, it would click and clack like a mechanical monster,” said John Zils, a project engineer who worked on the tower. But the computer allowed Khan to do calculations in 30 minutes that would previously have taken months. Khan understood the traditional way of putting together tall buildings, using interior columns, was inefficient. He pioneered using a vertical tube of steel or concrete, allowing big, open spaces, and finished the first such structure, an apartment building, in 1966. He then partnered with Skidmore Owings architect Bruce Graham to create the John Hancock  Center, after which the duo launched Sears Tower, their most ambitious project. To satisfy the retailer’s desire for more than 4 million square feet, Khan proposed bundling nine steel tubes. “It’s like a tick-tack-toe board with nine cells,” Zils said. “It’s a much stiffer structure using much less material.” The tower only needed 76,000 tons of steel, he added. Built the old-fashioned way, it could have needed twice as much and cost far more. “That was the big breakthrough,” Zils said. “Without the computer, who knows where we would have gone.” That blueprint also allowed Graham and Khan to design more than a plain box. They narrowed the structure by making the tubes different heights, sculpting it into the now-familiar shape. Sears originally had no intention of building the world’s tallest building, Zils said. The retailer just wanted to replace the old Homan Square headquarters with offices near downtown’s Metra train lines. After buying land at 233 South Wacker Drive, Sears hired Skidmore Owings to craft a plan that would give it several million square feet on the parcel. “Sears was a very frugal operation that didn’t spend any extra money for anything,” Zils said. “They were not interested in being an innovator, they just wanted something that was rock solid.” Sears also wanted an extra several million square feet of space, enough to handle expected growth throughout the 1970s and 1980s, he added. The retailer planned to rent out those upper-floor offices to other firms at first, but since few companies would want massive floor plates like Sears, Graham and Khan realized the building needed a massive base and narrow top. “It just kept getting taller and thinner, and soon we had what would be the tallest building in the world,” Zils said. Two factors convinced Sears to make history and greenlight the more than 4 million square foot building, he added. Khan’s design meant the structure would be immensely strong, allowing heavy floor loads, and including a Skydeck for tourists meant a lucrative stream of visitors. “That tipped the scale, and they finally gave the go-ahead,” he said. Sears moved fast after making its decision. Although Graham and Khan had just one drawing that depicted the entire building, it was enough for Carl Morse, the construction manager hired by Sears, to shake hands on a deal with the president of U.S. Steel to buy 76,000 tons of steel, mostly from its plant in Gary and put men like Porzuczek to work. The work was sometimes punishing, especially in winter,  Porzuczek said. The hard labor didn’t bother him. But the job wasn’t easy. “I did not see him fall,” Porzuczek said of his friend and fellow crew member Jack De Klerk. On April 14, 1973, just three weeks before construction was complete, the two were sitting on a girder above the 100th floor about 25 feet apart when a sling used to raise steel beams caught the 28-year-old De Klerk and pulled him over. He fell about 35 feet into the building, and more  beams lay below. Porzuczek said it’s likely he hit one. De Klerk wasn’t the only one to die. Four elevator workers were killed April 11 when fire swept through a shaft. Porzuczek went on to help build the James R. Thompson  Center and work on the Chicago Board of Trade expansion, among other projects. He retired to Las Vegas after a 2001 injury. Spider Dan One of the most unforgettable days at the tower’s took place over Memorial Day weekend in 1981. Early on May 25 of that year, a 25-year-old rock climber from Maine climbed a ladder held by Lakeview resident James Hackett and rolled onto the roof over the Wacker Drive entrance. He sat down for a moment to rest in the darkness. “I looked up and just saw that black monolith going up into the clouds,” said Dan Goodwin, who was equipped with hooks, leg loops and suction cups he designed. As the sun rose, a gathering crowd of spectators was treated to an improbable sight: a man dressed as Spider-Man inching up the world’s tallest building. “It was a snap for him — almost like walking up stairs,” a Chicago police officer told the Tribune that day. “My son, who was 5 years old at the time, said, ‘Daddy, you should do it as Spider-Man,'” Goodwin said. “I also wanted to reassure people that I’m just a climber, not a terrorist.” “I chose Memorial Day weekend because I didn’t want to interrupt business and get people mad at me,” he added. But Chicago Fire Commissioner William Blair got plenty mad. He used a window washing platform to block Goodwin midway, and that’s when the situation got even more dangerous. “I was hanging by one suction cup that was slipping and about to pop off,” Goodwin said. “I felt like an astronaut stepping out into space. Inside, I was super calm, collected and pretended I was right near the ground, but I wasn’t near the ground, I was 660 feet above it.” That dangerous moment passed. “Someone called down and said, ‘we got orders to let you go to the top because someone’s going to get killed here,'” Goodwin said. “And I thought, ‘yeah, me.'” He was arrested after reaching the roof, but police officers greeted him as a conquering hero. “The cops were throwing their arms around me, saying that was the greatest thing they’d ever seen,” he said. The tower was undamaged, said Goodwin, and he was later fined $35. “From that point on, I was nicknamed Spider Dan.” A success Sears Tower quickly become a symbol of Chicago’s corporate might, according to Mike Duncan, a principal with Cresa Chicago, a real estate firm. Not only did it have Sears filling its bottom half, but other well-known companies, many looking to do business with the retailer, began leasing upper floors. “Sears helped fill the tower by saying, ‘Goldman Sachs, if you want to issue our bonds and stocks, you should be a tenant in our building in Chicago,'” said Duncan, whose wife was a Sears employee in the 1970s who signed the final beam. It was also an era of mammoth construction projects, including the 1,136-foot Standard Oil Building, finished in 1973 and now named Aon Center,  and the 850-foot First National Plaza, completed in 1969 and now called Chase Tower. But the oil shocks and inflation of the 1970s weakened Chicago’s muscular economy and its market for new supertall buildings. And Sears’ position as middle-America’s top retailer  grew shaky. Its plans to expand into the upper floors were set aside. And after helping create modern downtown Chicago, the company then helped reverse the trend. In 1992, Sears moved to Hoffman Estates, joining other firms such as McDonalds and AT&T in choosing suburban office campuses. The 1,451-foot Willis Tower lost its crown as world’s tallest in 1998, when it was surpassed by Malaysia’s Petronas Twin Towers, and the American title in 2014 when New York City’s One World Trade Center was completed. After decades of  construction in Asian countries, it’s now the 23rd tallest in the world. But the tower, much like downtown, proved to be a survivor, Duncan said. Duncan partly credits Graham and Khan’s design. Its construction allowed heavy loads and reduced sway. And the 1993 terrorist bombing at New York’s World Trade Center  heightened interest in buildings that could withstand shocks. The 2001 terrorist attacks at  New York’s World Trade Center kicked off new worries about supertall buildings. Once again, vacancies opened throughout the tower. But United Airlines began moving its operations center from Elk Grove Township to the building in 2010, and by 2012 it established its headquarters there, taking about 20% of the building and becoming the largest tenant. Willis Group also signed a lease in 2009, paying extra to name the landmark building Willis Tower, a change many older Chicagoans still don’t accept. COVID may be Willis Tower’s biggest challenge yet. Chicago companies shed millions of square feet of office space, leaving more than one-fifth vacant, according to Colliers International. Willis Tower wasn’t immune. After cutting thousands of jobs, United  decided in 2021 to vacate several floors, and more companies could follow suit. But according to CoStar  Willis Tower is still more than 88% leased, and McCarthy says Blackstone also signed major lease agreements last year, including one with pharmaceutical giant Abbott Labs, and the $500 million makeover will keep the building competitive. “Willis Tower, frankly, when it was built, was a bit of a fortress, and that’s because when towers like this were created, they were monuments to corporations,” said Gensler’s Heiser. Gensler opened up the complex and transformed its empty plaza into Catalog, five levels of retail, restaurants and a terrace  for working or relaxing outdoors. Whole floors were dedicated to amenities such as fitness centers and a private club, all designed to make office work comfortable. “Today we need buildings that support the whole human,” Heiser said. The prospect of a makeover brought Ben Altman and his family-owned investment firm Altman Advisors to Willis Tower in 2016. It was no accident that the firm took nearly 1,000 square feet on the 97th floor. Altman’s grandfather worked for Sears as a shipping clerk for 30 years, and reaching the top of its former headquarters fulfills a long-term goal. “We’re from humble West Side roots, so this was the American Dream for us,” he said. Seyfarth Shaw’s Chicago office moved in 2017 from the Central Loop to Willis. The firm’s  offices allow natural light to flow through. And being on the 80th floor has advantages. “We’re the highest law firm in the city, and that’s pretty cool,” said Tracy Billows, co-managing partner. Billows said she also feels a personal connection to the building, leading her to make a common mistake. “I was born and raised in Chicago, so I occasionally slip up and call it Sears,” she said. brogal@chicagotribune.com Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune