


Aug. 29 (UPI) -- Although the "technical issues" that haunted British commercial aviation on Monday have been fixed, the delays at the country's busiest airports are expected to last for days, officials said on Tuesday.
Airlines reported "significant delays" on Monday while officials scrambled to fix the problems identified by the National Air Traffic Services. Thousands were left stranded in Britain while the issues were being resolved.
Advertisement
Those travel issues continued into Tuesday. According to the airline tracking website Flight Aware, 16% of the flights taking off from London's Heathrow Airport were delayed on Tuesday morning.
Another 20% of the flights going into London's Gatwick airport were delayed while 10% of flights traveling to Manchester saw a pause as well.
Related
American Airlines hit with largest penalty ever for tarmac delays
'Technical issues' cause delays at British airports
Pilot brings Texas girl's lost doll home from Tokyo
British Airlines said it would allow flyers who were slated to travel on Monday and Tuesday to change their flights free of charge to relieve congestion. Ryanair said it had been forced to delay or cancel some flights, and Jet2 said significant delays were expected on all of its flights to and from Britain.
"Airlines will have a major headache now, looking after customers and getting the planes back to some normal schedule again," Aviation expert Sally Gethin told the BBC. "I think we are going to see sizable disruption in the coming hours and tomorrow, and I think for some people there could be a knock-on effect into later this week."
Advertisement
British Transport Secretary Mark Harper ruled out a cyberattack but did not know what else could have caused the "technical issues."
"Airlines have a responsibility either to get people back on a flight to get them home or to pay for them to be accommodated and to sort out accommodation of them, and for food or drink as well," Harper said. "If they don't do it people can pay for reasonable costs themselves and claim back from their airlines.
"There was a technical issue with the flight planning system that will be looked at in detail. When there is a significant issue like this ... the CAA [Civil Aviation Authority] has to do a report on an incident of this magnitude and report back to me."





Latest Headlines







World News // 21 hours ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.










World News // 17 hours ago
Blinken: Israel accepts cease-fire bridge proposal; now Hamas must 'do the same'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Israel has accepted a U.S. proposal that aims to bridge differences in a cease-fire deal with Hamas, the United States' top diplomat said Monday.










World News // 3 hours ago
Chinese and Philippine ships collied amid territorial dispute of South China Sea
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ships of the Chinese and Philippine Coast Guards collided in the South China Sea on Monday as the two neighbors blame one another for the incident amid their protracted fight over the sovereignty of the disputed waters.










World News // 1 week ago
Ernesto heads to near Newfoundland as Category 1 hurricane
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 7 hours ago
Circle K's Canadian owner seeks to buy rival Japanese-owned 7-Eleven
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Canadian owner of Circle K  is seeking to buy Japanese-owned 7-Eleven, a rival convenience store operation, in a "friendly" offer.










World News // 14 hours ago
One dead in superyacht wreck off Italian coast; British billionaire among six missing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn.










World News // 14 hours ago
Britain to detain suspects in police cells amid a prison overcrowding crisis after riots
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Britain implemented emergency measures to reduce pressure on prisons overflowing from people being sentenced for taking part in, or inciting, riots across England and Northern Ireland in late July and early August.










World News // 17 hours ago
U.N.: Record 280 aid workers killed during conflicts in 2023
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations said 280 humanitarian aid workers were killed around the world in 2023, setting a new record for the number of people dying while aiding those in need.










World News // 20 hours ago
U.S., South Korea kick off joint military exercise amid outcry from North Korea
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United States and South Korea on Monday kicked off a major joint military exercise meant to deter growing threats from North Korea, which denounced the drills as "offensive and provocative."










World News // 22 hours ago
1 dead, 1 injured in Tel Aviv explosion; police investigating as potential terrorism
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- At least one person is dead and another injured after a bomb exploded Sunday night in Tel Aviv, according to authorities who believe the blast might be terrorism.






 Aug. 29 (UPI) -- Although the "technical issues" that haunted British commercial aviation on Monday have been fixed, the delays at the country's busiest airports are expected to last for days, officials said on Tuesday. Airlines reported "significant delays" on Monday while officials scrambled to fix the problems identified by the National Air Traffic Services. Thousands were left stranded in Britain while the issues were being resolved.
Advertisement Those travel issues continued into Tuesday. According to the airline tracking website Flight Aware, 16% of the flights taking off from London's Heathrow Airport were delayed on Tuesday morning. Another 20% of the flights going into London's Gatwick airport were delayed while 10% of flights traveling to Manchester saw a pause as well.
Related
American Airlines hit with largest penalty ever for tarmac delays
'Technical issues' cause delays at British airports
Pilot brings Texas girl's lost doll home from Tokyo British Airlines said it would allow flyers who were slated to travel on Monday and Tuesday to change their flights free of charge to relieve congestion. Ryanair said it had been forced to delay or cancel some flights, and Jet2 said significant delays were expected on all of its flights to and from Britain. "Airlines will have a major headache now, looking after customers and getting the planes back to some normal schedule again," Aviation expert Sally Gethin told the BBC. "I think we are going to see sizable disruption in the coming hours and tomorrow, and I think for some people there could be a knock-on effect into later this week."
Advertisement British Transport Secretary Mark Harper ruled out a cyberattack but did not know what else could have caused the "technical issues." "Airlines have a responsibility either to get people back on a flight to get them home or to pay for them to be accommodated and to sort out accommodation of them, and for food or drink as well," Harper said. "If they don't do it people can pay for reasonable costs themselves and claim back from their airlines. "There was a technical issue with the flight planning system that will be looked at in detail. When there is a significant issue like this ... the CAA [Civil Aviation Authority] has to do a report on an incident of this magnitude and report back to me."