Listen to Story Claiming that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was not invited to the inaugural event of the Delhi Airport Metro Express line's extension, the Aap Aadmi Party (AAP) hit out at the Prime Minister. PM Modi on Sunday inaugurated the extension of the Delhi Metro's Airport Line which now terminates at the YashoBhoomi Dwarka Sector 25 station. He unveiled a plaque at the new station marking the nearly two-km extension of the Airport Line.  Meanwhile, Delhi minister Saurabh Bharadwaj hit out at the Centre, claiming that Arvind Kejriwal was not called for the ceremony even as the PM "advocated for Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" (the world is a family) before world leaders at the recently concluded G20 Leaders' Summit. Saurabh Bharadwaj implied that failing to invite Kejriwal to the inauguration event was an antithesis to the proposition of 'one family'.  "Just a week ago, PM Modi in front of the world leaders, said 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' meaning the world is a family, and now, in your own country, you do not invite a three-time elected minister to the inauguration of the metro," AAP's Bharadwaj told news agency ANI.  Seconding his party leader's notion, AAP's Atishi also criticised the Prime Minister on the same claim. She said that PM Modi should 'rise above party lines' as he is the 'guardian of states'. Further, she alleged that the move was nothing short of frivolous thinking as the metro project (for an extension line) had been developed with funds from the Delhi government.  "It also does not suit the dignity of the Prime Minister's position when PM Modi goes to inaugurate a 2-km long metro line all by himself," Atishi said. NEW DELHI METRO LINE EXTENSION The high-speed corridor has been extended from Dwarka Sector 21 to the underground YashoBhoomi Dwarka Sector 25 station, which has been built using conventional cut-and-cover technology. The opening of the new metro station at Dwarka Sector 25 will enhance urban connectivity in the sub-city and facilitate people to reach the India International Convention and Expo Centre (IICC), named YashoBhoomi. Residents of these areas will now be able to reach central Delhi in about half an hour, as per metro officials. PM Modi later inaugurated Phase-1 of YashoBhoomi, a state-of-the-art convention and expo centre, in Dwarka. With the opening of this section, the total length of the Delhi Metro network has now increased to 393 km with 288 stations. Passenger operations on this extended section started from 3 pm on Sunday. Published By: Srishti JhaPublished On: Sep 17, 2023ALSO READ  |  Set differences aside, prioritise party's success: Congress chief at top panel meetMust Watch 
