Listen to Story With an eye on Lok Sabha polls, the BJP has announced a rejigged unit for Punjab. In July, the party had changed its state unit chief, appointing Congress turncoat Sunil Jakhar in place of old warhorse Ashwani Sharma. With his new team of office-bearers declared on September 17, Jakhar will have to hit the ground running. The central leadership has made it clear it wants to make inroads into Punjab’s rural population. Punjab, which sends 13 MPs to the Lok Sabha, had elected BJP candidates in two seats in the 2019 general election—Union minister Som Parkash and actor Sunny Deol. The BJP used to contest polls in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). After the 2020-21 farmers’ protests, the electoral mood in the state has changed massively. With the BJP-SAD alliance over, the biggest beneficiary has been the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which stormed to power in Punjab in the 2022 assembly polls. AAP expanded its base at the expense of SAD and Congress, which faced massive anti-incumbency. advertisementThe BJP think-tank believes expansion, especially in the rural areas, can happen only with the support of Jats. Towards this, the BJP is openly accommodating turncoats. This has been evident in the appointment of Jakhar and 13 members of the Jat community in the 34-member team of office-bearers. Ashwani Sharma’s team had 12 Jat Sikhs among the 29 top office-bearers. The new team, led by Jakhar, has many misses: no representation from Baniyas, Valmiki Dalits and Mazhabi Sikh Dalits. It has four Brahmins, two OBCs, three Ravidassia Dalits and a Ramdasia Dalit. Put together, these communities have more than 80 per cent vote share in the state.  Punjab, which sends 13 MPs to the Lok Sabha, had elected BJP candidates in two seats in the 2019 general election—Union minister Som Parkash and actor Sunny Deol. The BJP used to contest polls in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). After the 2020-21 farmers’ protests, the electoral mood in the state has changed massively. With the BJP-SAD alliance over, the biggest beneficiary has been the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which stormed to power in Punjab in the 2022 assembly polls. AAP expanded its base at the expense of SAD and Congress, which faced massive anti-incumbency.  The BJP think-tank believes expansion, especially in the rural areas, can happen only with the support of Jats. Towards this, the BJP is openly accommodating turncoats. This has been evident in the appointment of Jakhar and 13 members of the Jat community in the 34-member team of office-bearers.  Ashwani Sharma’s team had 12 Jat Sikhs among the 29 top office-bearers. The new team, led by Jakhar, has many misses: no representation from Baniyas, Valmiki Dalits and Mazhabi Sikh Dalits. It has four Brahmins, two OBCs, three Ravidassia Dalits and a Ramdasia Dalit. Put together, these communities have more than 80 per cent vote share in the state.  Among upper caste Hindus in the team, nine come from the Khatri, or Kshatriya, community. The surprise here is omission of Baniyas, a traditional vote base of the BJP that AAP is now wooing. In fact, AAP made Jalandhar businessman Ashok Mittal its Rajya Sabha MP to deepen reach in the community.  The BJP was expected to accommodate more Dalits to counter the campaigns by various Dalit groups in Doaba against Jakhar for alleged derogatory remarks, while he was in the Congress, against Dalit leader Charanjit Channi, who was anointed CM during the ouster of Amarinder Singh. Moreover, after Jakhar’s elevation, BJP leaders had sought the resignation of National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman Vijay Sampla.  The BJP hopes to cash in on Jakhar’s Hindu religion, Jat caste and experience of running the state Congress to gain appeal among rural voters. The party’s conventional core support base of upper caste Hindus (Brahmin, Baniya and Khatri) doesn’t consider Jat Hindus as devout while Jat Sikhs do not see Jat Hindus as complete Punjabis. The Jat Hindu community has presence only in the Abohar Fazilka region of Punjab, bordering Haryana and Rajasthan. Jat Sikhs consider Jat Hindus as affiliates of the sub-groups of the community there.  The BJP’s focus appears to be the rural community and newer territories in the state. Since 1998, in a tie-up with SAD, the party had been contesting the Lok Sabha seats of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, and had a sizeable presence in the Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Ferozepur Lok Sabha seats. It would effectively transfer votes to the Akalis.  In the new list of office-bearers, only bureaucrat-turned-politician Jagmohan Singh Raju has been accommodated from Amritsar as general secretary. Gurdaspur is represented by Fatehjung Bajwa, one the 12 vice-presidents. Rakesh Sharma and Renu Kashyap are among the 12 secretaries. Four vice-presidents and secretaries each come from Jakhar’s home district of Fazilka (Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency) and the Hindu-dominated SAS Nagar (Anandpur Sahib constituency). Jakhar, on September 18, made two changes. He added to the core group Suraj Bhardwaj, former Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) organisational secretary for Punjab, as secretary as well as former state unit chief Shwait Malik. Both are from Amritsar.  The challenge for the BJP is that it needs big names for the Lok Sabha contest, along with building cadre in new areas and among new voting blocs. The BJP has decided to grow inorganically in Punjab, that too via Jat Sikhs. Banking on Jat Sikhs is a conventional way of doing politics in Punjab, but it won’t be easy for the BJP as it carries the baggage of Hindutva, residual anger among Jats from the farm law protests, along with simmering radical agenda among the panthic Sikhs.  The elevation of Jakhar, son of late Congress veteran Balram Jakhar, has also made RSS leaders in the state uncomfortable. They have conveyed their displeasure to the Sangh leadership in Nagpur and are upset with the team’s formation. Jakhar’s public views on several ideological issues are not aligned with those of the RSS and BJP. In the last two months, he has embarrassed the ideological parents on multiple occasions, the latest being the clean chit he gave to controversial British philanthropist Ravi Singh, who runs Khalsa Aid. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is conducting inquiries into Ravi Singh’s work over suspicion of involvement with pro-Khalistani elements in Europe, Canada, US and India. Also, for the first time, the Sangh in Punjab is liaising with a BJP chief who is not from their nursery and whose public views do not match theirs.  The BJP, by not giving representation to several rural communities, especially Dalits, in the new Punjab team has sought to woo the Jats, but it’s risky and akin to putting all eggs in one basket. The BJP has also compromised on its traditional urban voter base—Brahmin, Baniya, Khatri and urban Dalit—and even the territories they used to traditionally dominate in Majha and Doaba. With Jakhar as state unit chief, the BJP in Punjab is running the risk of annoying the traditional voter bases of urban Hindus and party old-timers. From time to time, they have been reflecting their anguish. Moreover, as Congress state unit chief, Jakhar had uneasy relationships with the likes of Rana Gurmeet Sodhi, Gurpreet Kangar, Ashwani Sekri and Manpreet Badal, who are now in the BJP. There are no signals yet of any truce.  Jakhar’s latest trouble may come from Brahmins, who used to dominate the Punjab BJP along with Khatris. They have got only four representations in the list of 34 office-bearers. His predecessor Ashwani Sharma—a Brahmin leader—is reportedly feeling slighted even as the BJP central leadership wants to accommodate him in the party’s national work. The composition of the new team suggests all of Sharma’s his trusted lieutenants have been rid of their responsibilities, including the core group of erstwhile general secretaries Jiwan Gupta and Rakesh Bagga, vice-president Kewal Dhillion and secretary Rajesh Honey. Among them, only Bagga was elevated as vice-president.  The new list also includes controversial leader Durgesh Sharma. He was district president before 2022 and expelled from the party’s membership for contesting polls on ally Amarinder Singh Punjab Lok Congress’s ticket, without informing his seniors. Also Suresh Sharma, from Pathankot, has been appointed secretary, apparently without consulting him.  In the last two months, Jakhar has been struggling to keep the flock together and strike a balance with party veterans in Punjab. Interestingly, the new core group has many veterans missing, such as former state unit chiefs Shwait Malik and Rajinder Bhandari, and is flooded with turncoats. Eleven of them joined the BJP in the past two years.  In its alliance revival discussions with SAD, the BJP is demanding more seats—seven of 13 for the Lok Sabha elections (instead of three earlier) and 55 of 117 for assembly polls (instead of 23 earlier). The fate of this will be known only after December, when the assembly polls in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana are over. By then, party strategists will have as sense of whether rivals Congress and AAP are materialising their alliance in Punjab.  Jakhar’s other big challenge is deep factionalism. At the same time, defectors from the Congress and Akalis often reach Delhi to complain about the ‘incapacity’ and ‘non-accommodative’ nature of the Punjab unit. While the BJP is betting on Jakhar to restore order, there is only one immediate yardstick of success: general elections, which are just months away. Subscribe to India Today Magazine