Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate credit cards to write unbiased product reviews. The information for the following product(s) has been collected independently by Business Insider: Hilton Honors American Express Aspire Card. The details for these products have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer. This guide explores the best credit cards for Hilton travelers so you can decide which Hilton Honors card is best for you. Earn 12X Hilton Honors points for each dollar of eligible purchases charged on your card directly with a hotel or resort within the Hilton portfolio. Earn 6X points for each dollar of purchases on your card at U.S. restaurants, at U.S. supermarkets, and at U.S. gas stations. Earn 4X points for each dollar on U.S. online retail purchases. Earn 3X points for all other eligible purchases on your card. $150 N/A 20.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn 130,000 Hilton Honors bonus points Good to Excellent This card is a terrific choice if you stay with Hilton, even occasionally. It balances excellent benefits, including Gold status and 10 airport lounge visits per year, with a modest annual fee. And while it doesn't come with an automatic free night certificate on your account anniversary, you can earn one by spending $15,000 on the card in a year. Earn 7X Hilton Honors Bonus Points for each dollar of eligible purchases charged on your card directly with hotels and resorts within the Hilton portfolio. Earn 5X Points per dollar on purchases at U.S. restaurants, at U.S. supermarkets, and at U.S. gas stations. Earn 3X Points for all other eligible purchases on your card. $0 N/A 20.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn 80,000 Hilton Honors bonus points Good to Excellent If you're an infrequent traveler and like earning Hilton points but don't want to pay an annual fee, the Hilton Honors American Express Card is definitely worth considering. Earn 14X points for eligible purchases made directly with hotels and resorts in the Hilton portfolio. Earn 7X points on select travel including flights booked directly with airlines or AmexTravel.com and car rentals booked directly with select car rental companies. Earn 7X points on dining at U.S. restaurants, including takeout and delivery. Earn 3X points on all other purchases. $550 N/A 20.99% to 29.99% variable APR on purchases Earn 150,000 Hilton Honors bonus points Good to Excellent Many of the best credit cards come with high annual fees that certainly aren't for everyone, and that's definitely the case with the Hilton Honors American Express Aspire Card . This is Hilton's most expensive (and rewarding) card, and it's geared toward loyal Hilton travelers who can make the most of its many generous benefits. Earn 12X Hilton Honors Bonus Points on eligible Hilton purchases. Earn 5X Hilton Honors Bonus Points on other purchases made using the Hilton Honors Business Card on the first $100,000 in purchases each calendar year, earn 3X points thereafter. $195 N/A 20.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn 130,000 Hilton Honors bonus points Good to Excellent Small business owners who like staying with Hilton can get automatic Hilton Gold status and up to $240 a year in statement credits for eligible Hilton purchases. Earn 5X Membership Rewards® Points for flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel (up to $500,000 per calendar year) and on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel. Earn 1X Points on other purchases. $695 N/A See Pay Over Time APR Earn 80,000 Membership Rewards® points Good to Excellent If you want as many premium travel perks as possible, The Platinum Card® from American Express could be the right card for you. The annual fee is high, but you get a long list of benefits such as airport lounge access, travel statement credits, complimentary hotel elite status, and more. Earn 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on purchases at restaurants worldwide, on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year. Earn 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent at US supermarkets, on up to $25,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year. Earn 3X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or on AmexTravel.com. Earn 2X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on prepaid hotels and other eligible purchases booked on AmexTravel.com. Earn 1X Membership Rewards® point per dollar spent on all other eligible purchases. $325 N/A See Pay Over Time APR Earn 60,000 Membership Rewards® points plus 20% back in statement credits on eligible purchases made at restaurants worldwide, up to $100 back (Limited time offer. Offer ends 11/6/24) Good to Excellent Foodies and travelers alike will appreciate the American Express Gold's generous welcome bonus and Membership Rewards points earning. Its Uber Cash credits are useful for rides and Uber Eats, and monthly dining credits with participating merchants like GrubHub and Seamless are easy to use. The Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card represents the best of all worlds — a card with a moderate $150 annual fee that comes with supercharged earning capacity and mid-range elite status. You can currently earn a welcome bonus offer of 130,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after you spend $3,000 in purchases on the card in your first six months of card membership. Business Insider estimates that Hilton points are worth 0.5 cents each, on average. So the points from the bonus are worth around $650 in Hilton hotel stays. That's not counting the Hilton free reward night certificate that comes with the bonus, which is valid at nearly any Hilton property. If you use it at a luxury resort, for example, you could get a value of over $1,000.  This card earns 12X points on purchases made directly with a hotel or resort within the Hilton portfolio, 6X points at U.S. restaurants, at U.S. supermarkets, and at U.S. gas stations, 4X points on U.S. online retail purchases, and 3X points for all other eligible purchases. That means you can rack up thousands of points simply by using your card for everyday purchases. If you spend $15,000 or more on purchases with your card in a calendar year, you'll score a free night reward that you can use at almost any Hilton property worldwide. Cardholders automatically get Hilton Honors Gold status — which comes with perks like room upgrades, bonus earning on stays, and free breakfast (currently awarded as a food and beverage credit in the US) — but can bump up to Diamond status with $40,000 in card spending in a calendar year. Read more in our Hilton Honors American Express Surpass card review. Be sure to read our guide on how to earn and redeem Hilton Honors points to find out the best ways to maximize your hard-earned rewards. While you don't normally get tons of extra perks from a no-annual-fee travel credit card, the Hilton Honors American Express Card makes up for fewer benefits with a hefty bonus. New applicants can earn a welcome bonus of 80,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after you spend $2,000 in purchases on the card in the first six months of card membership. You can expect to get a value of around 0.5 cents per Hilton point based on Business Insider's points and miles valuations — but the exact value you'll get varies depending on where and when you redeem your points. The Hilton Honors American Express Card earns 7 Hilton points per dollar on eligible Hilton purchases and 5 points per eligible dollar spent at U.S. restaurants, U.S. supermarkets, and U.S. gas stations. Like other Hilton co-branded cards, it earns 3 points per eligible dollar spent on everything else. Cardholders receive entry-level Silver elite status but can spend their way up to Gold with $20,000 in purchases on the card in a calendar year. Read more in our Hilton Honors American Express card review. The Hilton Honors Aspire charges a $550 annual fee — but it also confers benefits unmatched by the best hotel credit cards. It also offers a substantial welcome bonus: 150,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after you spend $6,000 in purchases on the card within your first six months of card membership. That's worth around $750 in stays, based on Business Insider's valuations. Cardholders receive up to $250 in statement credits each account year for purchases made at participating Hilton Resorts, and up to another $250 in airline fee credits each calendar year for things like checked bags and seat assignments on your selected airline. When you book a qualifying two-night stay at participating Waldorf Astoria or Conrad properties, you'll get up to a $100 credit for eligible charges. Cardholders enjoy automatic top-tier Diamond status, with benefits like the best chance at room upgrades, club lounge access, complimentary breakfast, and double the points a regular member earns on stays. You can double-dip by stacking the Hilton free night award and resort credit on a single stay — it's a great way to splurge on extras without breaking the bank.  Hilton Aspire card members get a free night reward when they open the account and reach their account anniversary and renew (it's not part of the bonus), and can earn an additional one after spending $60,000 on the card in a calendar year. They can also enroll in Priority Pass membership for access to over 1,300 airport lounges worldwide.  The earning is pretty extraordinary, too — 14X points for eligible purchases made directly with hotels and resorts in the Hilton portfolio, 7X points on select travel and car rentals and on dining at U.S. restaurants, and 3X points on all other purchases. Read more in our Hilton Honors Aspire Card review. To be honest, The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card made this list because it's the only business card Hilton offers. This card used to be a fantastic earner for small business owners, but major changes in March 2024 significantly decreased its value. You don't need to own a multi-million dollar corporation to qualify for a small-business credit card — even if you have a side gig like driving for Uber or do freelance work, you could be eligible. Here's our guide to the best small-business credit cards to learn more. The annual fee on The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card is now $195 for new cardholders, more than double the previous fee of $95. The higher annual fee will go into effect for current cardholders on their next card renewal date.  Cardholders will no longer have 10 complimentary Priority Pass lounge visits each year. The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card also lost free night rewards for high spenders. Cardholders will no longer earn a free night after spending $15,000 on the card in a calendar year, or a second night award for spending $60,000 within the same year. This is a keen loss for travelers who valued Hilton free night certificates for aspirational stays at luxury properties such as the Waldorf-Astoria Los Cabos Pedregal, where rooms regularly go for more than $1,000 a night.  Instead, cardholders will get $240 in annual statement credits, divided into quarterly credits of up to $60 on eligible hotel stays and incidental fees at Hilton properties. They also get complimentary Emerald Executive Club elite status at National car rentals.  The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card offers a welcome bonus of 130,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after you spend $6,000 in purchases on the card within the first six months of card membership. The points are worth about $650 in stays, based on Business Insider's valuations.  This card is still an exceptional earner. It pulls 12 Hilton points per dollar on eligible Hilton purchases, 5 points on the first $100,000 in non-Hilton purchases each calendar year, and then 3 points after that. If you're a diehard Hilton loyalist in personal and business travel, The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card might still be a good fit for you. If you're not, you'll almost certainly find better value from a different rewards business credit card. Read more in our Amex Hilton Honors Business Card review. While the Hilton Honors Aspire comes with automatic Diamond status, if you're not a hardcore Hilton loyalist, you might want to consider a card that comes with elite status but earns points that transfer to other partners. The Platinum Card® from American Express fits the bill because cardholders can activate complimentary Hilton Honors Gold status (and Marriott Bonvoy Gold status, too). Hilton Gold status gets you a fair shot at room upgrades, 18 points per eligible dollar on stays instead of the normal 10, welcome amenities, and even complimentary continental breakfast at most properties. With the Platinum card, you'll earn Amex Membership Rewards points which transfer to Hilton at a 1:2 ratio, so you're effectively earning double Hilton points on everyday spending. The card costs $695 per year, but it comes packed with other valuable benefits that, if put to use, make the annual fee worthwhile. It currently offers a welcome bonus of 80,000 Membership Rewards® points after you spend $8,000 on eligible purchases on your new card in your first six months of card membership. Read more in our American Express Platinum Card review. You won't enjoy Hilton Honors elite status with the American Express® Gold Card, but you will earn a phenomenal number of points in several everyday spending categories that you can then transfer to your Hilton account.  This card earns 4X Membership Rewards® points on purchases at restaurants worldwide (on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points), 4X Membership Rewards® points at US supermarkets (on up to $25,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points), 3X Membership Rewards® points on flights booked directly with airlines or on AmexTravel.com, 2X Membership Rewards® points on prepaid hotels and other eligible purchases booked on AmexTravel.com, and 1X Membership Rewards® point on all other eligible purchases. Remember that 1 American Express Membership Rewards point converts to 2 Hilton points, so you're essentially doubling those earning rates if you plan to transfer your points to Hilton Honors. You'll also have the flexibility to transfer your points to other American Express Membership Rewards partners, like Delta, JetBlue, and Marriott. The card also curently offers a welcome bonus of 60,000 Membership Rewards® points after spending $6,000 on eligible purchases on your new card in the first six months of card membership plus 20% back in statement credits on eligible purchases made at restaurants worldwide within the first six months of card membership, up to $100 back (offer ends 11/6/24),  Read more in our Amex Gold Card review.  If you stay at Hilton hotels often, it makes a lot of sense to use a Hilton credit card to boost your points-earning potential, and enjoy benefits such as elite status and award stays every year. You can also get good value from non-Hilton cards that earn points and offer perks you can enjoy on stays.  It goes without saying that the best Hilton credit card for you will align with your travel and spending habits. If you value premium benefits and elite status, the Hilton Honors Aspire will be a good choice despite its high annual fee. If you don't want to pay an annual fee, the Hilton Honors American Express Card is great for casual Hilton travelers.  The right Hilton credit card can help you accelerate your way into luxury hotel stays and get the most value out of budget nights. Hilton offers a variety of credit cards, from a simple everyday earner without an annual fee up to one of the best premium credit cards that confer perks like top-tier Diamond elite status and up to $250 per year in statement credits toward airline incidental fees.  Our guide to earning, redeeming, and maximizing Hilton Honors points can help you make the most of your credit card rewards.  Hilton credit cards can give you premium benefits more than 7,000 hotels across 19 brands in the Hilton family. The right cards can get you free late check-out, top-tier elite status, and enough points to book several free nights at top-tier hotels.  The best Hilton credit card with the most valuable benefits is the Amex Hilton Aspire. It comes with $1,000+ in value each calendar year from perks such as a free Night Reward upon account opening — and another reward night after each account anniversary (and paying the annual fee), Priority Pass membership which offers access to 1,300+ airport lounges, and up to a $250 annual resort credit valid at Hilton resorts. If you travel regularly or stay at a fancy Hilton hotel once per year, these benefits could easily offset its $550 annual fee. You can use your Hilton points for stays at any Hilton brand, including Hilton Garden Inn. At over a century old, Hilton is one of the largest hotel chains, and now comprises 19 brands with over 7,000 properties in 123 countries and territories. Familiar labels like luxurious Waldorf Astoria, budget-friendly DoubleTree, and unique Curio Collection properties are all under Hilton's umbrella.  Your Hilton credit card account and your Hilton Honors loyalty program account are completely different. When you earn rewards with your Hilton credit card, they will automatically be deposited into your Hilton Honors account. To log into your Hilton credit card account, you'll sign in to your American Express account. You will not go through the Hilton website. Your credentials will likely be completely different. Hilton offers free standard Wi-Fi to regular members or those with Silver or Gold elite status, but only Diamond elite members receive free high-speed premium Wi-Fi. The only card that automatically gets you Diamond status is the Amex Hilton Aspire. Occasionally, Amex will run limited-time elevated offers on its Hilton Honors credit cards. These tend to appear a couple of times a year, but there's no guarantee of increased offers in the future.  It's always best to apply for credit cards when welcome bonus offers are at their highest. You can read our guide to the best current credit card sign-up bonuses for an idea of what's available right now. The Hilton Honors Aspire is our top-choice hotel credit card for frequent travelers who value premium benefits and exceptional value. Despite a sky-high annual fee of $550, cardholders immediately get top-tier Diamond elite status and several hundred dollars' worth of statement credits toward travel expenses.  You can have multiple Hilton credit cards, especially if you pair a small-business credit card with a personal credit card. However, you may not be able to earn more than one sign-up bonus from Hilton at a time.  The entry-level Hilton Honors American Express Card does not charge an annual fee.  Hilton allows certain customers to skip traditional requirements for earning elite status in exchange for spending money on credit cards. Hilton Honors Aspire can get complimentary Diamond status for paying an annual fee of $550, while you can earn Diamond status after spending $40,000 in a calendar year on the Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card. Business Insider's experts looked at both co-branded Hilton credit cards from Amex, and general travel credit cards that earn rewards or have perks you can use at Hilton hotels. We chose cards to suit different types of consumers, from families and road-trippers to business travelers and frequent flyers who love to travel in style. We also considered factors like annual fees, welcome bonus offers, ongoing benefits like elite status and statement credits, and earning rates for everyday spending. Our picks for the best Hilton Honors credit cards range from a basic no-annual-fee card to a top-tier premium credit card with luxury benefits, with something for everyone in between. For a closer look at our methodology, here's how we rate credit cards at Business Insider. For rates and fees of The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card, please click here. For rates and fees of The Hilton Honors American Express Business Card, please click here. For rates and fees of the American Express® Gold Card, please click here. For rates and fees of the American Express® Gold Card, please click here. For rates and fees of the Hilton Honors American Express Card, please click here. For rates and fees of the Hilton Honors American Express Card, please click here. For rates and fees of The Platinum Card® from American Express, please click here. For rates and fees of The Platinum Card® from American Express, please click here. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. For rates and fees of The Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card, please click here. For rates and fees of The Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card, please click here. Jump to