If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on Oct. 5, 2023
 
By: Lyle Daly
 Writer  KEY POINTS American Express Member Week is back. Launched in 2021, the annual event will run this year from Oct. 9 through Oct. 13. Card members will have access to limited-time special offers and unique experiences in select cities. American Express is also doing something new this time around. Although Member Week is made for those with American Express cards, non-card members now also have the opportunity to get in on the action. While American Express hasn't announced everything yet, it has released information about the upcoming offers and experiences. Here's a first look at what to expect.


 American Express is known for its special offers, which add even more value to its best card offers. It has already announced that there will be up to $375 in offers across several categories, including travel, dining, and retail. (Terms apply.) These deals will be available through Amex Offers, so it's worth keeping an eye out for them. Amex Offers are available in your online card account and through the American Express app. American Express will have several special travel offers available: Eligible card members can get a $25 statement credit after spending $75 or more at over 200 participating Resy restaurants. This offer will be available twice per card member, for up to $50 in statement credits. Enrollment is required and terms apply. Eligible card members will be able to enroll in Amex Offers for a variety of brands, including Bose, Dell, Hydro Flask, Levi's, Revolve, Shiseido, Sunglass Hut, and Vuori. Terms apply. Eligible card members can get exclusive presale access to sports and entertainment events. These include Coachella, LCD Soundsystem's NYC Residency, and the 2024 US Open Golf Championship. Terms apply. Members with business cards can get up to $165 in total value when they make select purchases from DocuSign, Hertz®, Instacart Business (card exclusions apply), Lowe's, and Squarespace. Terms apply. American Express is also offering special experiences in select cities. If you get a Member Week pass online, you can sign up for mobile notifications about events in your area that match your interests. Olivia Rodrigo will perform songs from her new album, GUTS, on Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. ET. Fans will be able to watch it from then through Oct. 12. Card members and Member Week Pass holders can make reservations for Outstanding in the Field Dinners. Tickets are available for $275, space is limited, and terms apply. There are two events: Card members and Member Week Pass holders can meet and compete with professional golfers at two Topgolf locations: In addition, eligible card members can earn a statement credit for purchases at Topgolf locations nationwide. Terms apply. American Express partnered with Hypebeast and artist James Jarvis for this collection. Card members and Member Week Pass holders will be able to purchase travel gear and decals starting Oct. 10 on Hypebeast. Terms apply. If you're interested in any of those special experiences, it's a good idea to get a Member Week Pass. You can do this online at the Member Week Pass website, and it's free of charge. It's available to card members and non-card members. You don't need to get a Member Week Pass if you're already an American Express card member, but you may want to get one anyway. That way, you can receive notifications on offers and experiences. You'll find the limited-time offers in Amex Offers. Remember that you typically need to enroll your eligible American Express card in each offer you want to use. Even when it's not Member Week, it's still worth checking Amex Offers regularly, as there are often great deals available. 
Lyle Daly is a freelance writer who has been covering personal finance since 2016.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.