You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Mar 1, 2024, 7:49am As a college student, your dorm room or off-campus apartment most likely packs a lot of items in a tiny space. But unexpected problems like theft, accidents and fires can happen. Getting the best renters insurance can help you recover. Your college or university generally is not responsible for damage or theft to your personal belongings. That includes items like your electronics, clothing and bike. College students may need renters insurance if: You are generally not required to have renters insurance if you live in a dorm or other school-affiliated housing. If you live in a dorm you likely have coverage under your parents’ homeowners insurance policy. But that coverage may only apply if you lived with your parents before going to college and you’re under a certain age (such as 24). If you changed addresses or declared residency in another state, you may need renters insurance if you want coverage. A parents’ homeowners insurance policy might also limit coverage for items that are kept off-premises (such as a dorm) to a certain percentage of the personal property coverage. For example, if your parents’ home policy has $100,000 in personal property coverage and limits coverage for items off-premises to 10%, you would only have up to $10,000 for your belongings while you’re away at school. If your parents do not have homeowners insurance, or coverage is limited or insufficient, you can buy a renters insurance policy to fill in any coverage gaps. Your landlord may require you to have renters insurance as part of the lease agreement if you live off-campus. Landlord insurance covers the building and other types of problems, but it does not cover your personal property. Your parents’ home insurance policy may extend coverage to your off-campus apartment, but that coverage typically only applies if your parents’ home is your permanent residence. Check with the home insurance agent to confirm whether there is coverage. The types of problems covered by renters insurance include theft and damage of personal property, accidental injuries and property damage you cause others, and additional living expenses. Here’s a breakdown of the main coverage types that come with renters insurance. This covers your possessions such as your bike, computer, clothing, furniture, rugs, jewelry and even the artwork you hang on your walls. The causes of damage covered by a standard renters insurance policy are: Earthquake and flood damage is not covered by a renters insurance policy. Personal liability coverage pays for accidental injuries and property damage you cause to others. For example, if you’re working on your golf swing in the backyard and accidentally knock a ball through your neighbor’s window, renters liability insurance can pay to replace the window. It also covers your legal costs if you’re sued because of an accident covered by your policy. Medical payments coverage pays for minor medical claims if someone else gets injured in your home. For example, if a guest cuts their hand in your off-campus apartment, your medical payments coverage can pay for a trip to urgent care. It can also cover accidents that happen away from your home, such as your dog biting someone. Medical payments coverage is typically sold in small amounts ranging from $1,000 to $5,000. Larger medical claims against you would fall under liability insurance. If you can’t live in your dorm or apartment due to a problem covered by your policy (such as a fire), additional living expenses coverage can pay for extra costs such as hotel bills, restaurant meals and laundry services. There are some situations that renters insurance doesn’t cover for college students, such as: Renters insurance costs an average of $14 a month for $15,000 worth of personal property coverage, according to a Forbes Advisor analysis of renters insurance costs. That includes $100,000 in liability coverage and $1,000 in medical payments coverage. Your renters insurance costs will depend on factors such as:  1 American Family $149 19 states 1 American Family 2 Lemonade $160 28 states + DC 2 Lemonade Via Lemonade's Secure Website 3 Erie $182 12 states 3 Erie If you’re a college student renting a home for the first time, buying renters insurance is a lot easier than preparing for a standardized test. Here’s how to get renters insurance as a college student. The best way to determine how much personal property insurance you need is by creating a home inventory, which includes information such as: To simplify the process, you can use an app like the home inventory app provided by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Once you have an idea how much your stuff is worth, you can buy the appropriate amount of personal property coverage. In addition to personal property insurance, renters insurance policies contain liability insurance. A renters insurance policy may default to $100,000 in liability coverage. If you need more, you can increase this amount. A good rule of thumb is to buy enough liability coverage to cover what you could lose in a lawsuit. The coverage limit for additional living expenses may also default to a percentage of your personal property coverage, such as 40%. With $15,000 of personal property coverage, that would mean $6,000 for additional living expenses. But check your policy details to confirm your coverage amounts. Start your search for renters insurance companies by considering insurers you’re already familiar with, such as your current car insurance company, if you have one. You may be able to get a bundling discount if you buy both policies from the same insurance company. It’s a good idea to check quotes from other insurers, too. Our guide to the best renters insurance companies looks at who has competitive prices combined with good customer service. You may find some renters insurance companies offer additional coverage types that appeal to you. For example, American Family renters insurance offers a “diminishing deductible” that decreases your deductible by $100 for every year that you don’t file a renters insurance claim. State Farm renters insurance offers identity theft restoration services, which helps pay your legal costs and other expenses connected to identity theft. The best way to find a good price on renters insurance is to get quotes from multiple insurers. Make sure you get quotes for the same coverage level from each insurer so it’s an apples-to-apples comparison. You can get free renters insurance quotes: Once you have determined your preferred coverage level and compared quotes, it’s time to pick a renters insurance policy. If affordability is your top priority, you may opt for the company offering the lowest quote. On the other hand, you may value special coverage and additional perks more than price. If you’re a college student who’s on the fence about buying renters insurance, here are five reasons why renters insurance is worth it: 
 Parents’ homeowners insurance typically covers college students who live in the dorms and it may cover college students who live in off-campus housing. But coverage is usually limited to students who permanently reside with their parents and you may need to be under a certain age (such as age 24). Home insurance coverage for personal belongings kept off-premises (like a dorm room) may be limited to a certain percentage of the policy’s personal property coverage, such as 10%. Ask your home insurance agent to confirm the amount of coverage you have. Graduate students will typically want to buy a renters insurance policy. That’s because graduate students likely no longer live with their parents or are too old to be covered under their parents’ homeowners insurance policy. Without renters insurance, a graduate student may have no financial safety net if their belongings are destroyed or stolen. 

 With 15 years of immersion in the world of personal finance, Ashley Kilroy simplifies financial concepts for individuals striving toward financial security. Her expertise has been showcased in reputable publications including Rolling Stone, SmartAsset and Money Talks News. She's committed to equipping readers with the knowledge needed to achieve their financial goals.