Sent weekly directly to your inbox! Steve Stricker lines up his putt on the 18th hole Saturday at University Ridge. Stricker shot an 8 under-64. Paul Broadhurst celebrates his birdie putt on the 18th hole, which tied Steve Stricker for the lead.  Paul Broadhurst knows he’s stepping into somewhat hostile territory Sunday. He shares the lead at the American Family Insurance Championship with Madison resident and tournament host Steve Stricker. They shot matching 8-under-par 64s on Saturday after going 7-under on Friday, sharing the tournament record for 36-hole score at 15-under 129. They’ll be in the final grouping Sunday at University Ridge Golf Course with Justin Leonard (13-under), and Broadhurst knows the big following Stricker draws will be rooting against him. Steve Stricker shares the lead with Paul Broadhurst after two rounds of the American Family Insurance Championship. They react to their Saturday rounds. Video courtesy American Family Insurance Championship. “I’m gonna have two fans out there tomorrow: my wife and my caddy,” Broadhurst said. Stricker continued his masterful play of late at the AmFam, carding six birdies on the front nine and two more on the back. He didn’t make a bogey, and he hit 17 of 18 greens in regulation. His run of three consecutive birdies from Nos. 5-7 put him into the lead, surpassing Leonard, who started slow with just one birdie on the first nine. Stricker’s well-placed wedge pnto the ninth green set up a straight-line birdie putt of about 10 feet, which he sank to draw a large cheer from the crowd surrounding the hole. Stricker has never won the AmFam, the tournament he launched in 2016. He fell in a playoff to Madison native Jerry Kelly in 2019 for his best finish in the event. But his game has never been sharper — Saturday marked his 54th consecutive round scoring par or better, a record in PGA-sanctioned events, and he leads the field in scrambling (5 of 5) this weekend. “I’m playing really well, consistent,” Stricker said. “I’m driving it good. My irons have been really good lately. I’ve been making some putts off and on, that equals some good scoring. There’s a lot of short irons in your hand, especially here. That’s what I do and take pride in the most is short irons, so I get a lot of those, and I’ve been capitalizing on some of those.” Broadhurst played in the group behind Stricker and caught fire on the seventh hole. He ran off five birdies in six holes, then three more over the final four holes, including a birdie at 18 to tie Stricker. Broadhurst said after his slow start and Stricker firing out of the gates, he just wanted to pull within enough strokes to be in range for a shot to win Sunday. He did that with a stellar putter, leading the first in putts per greens in regulation (1.4) and a field-best nine birdies. “You try and feed off (Stricker), really,” Broadhurst said. “The way he swings it, his rhythm, his putting stroke, he’s the guy to copy really. I’ll just go out there and give it my best shot. I know I’m going to probably have to shoot another low one. I just want to make it competitive tomorrow, not let him get away and have a clear running back nine.” Both leaders were pushed early on by Miguel Angel Jiménez, who surged toward the top of the leaderboard after starting on the back nine. He eagled both par-5s and had birdies on three par-4s on the back nine to drop to 7 under before making the turn, and his 29 on the back nine tied Wes Short Jr.’s 2016 record for lowest in tournament history. Jiménez got as low as 10 under, but wasn’t able to keep up that pace as he double-bogeyed the par-3 No. 8 and finished at 8-under 64. He’s 8 under for the tournament, tied Stricker and Broadhurst for the best round on Saturday, and the trio tied a tournament record for best second-round score. Joe Durant was 7 under on Saturday after rattling off five consecutive birdies on Nos. 10-14, and he sits in a tie for fourth at 11 under with Steven Aker and Marco Dawson, who shot 4 under. Stricker joked with reporters that he had to behave himself Friday at the concert American Family Insurance puts on in conjunction with the tournament. He was home by 10 p.m. and didn’t have any ill effects from a night out with friends. He anticipated his Saturday night would be more subdued as he focused on securing the trophy at his home tournament. “Yeah, I’ll be nervous,” Stricker said, “but you have to embrace it, otherwise it’s just going to get the best of you. I’m looking forward to the challenge, and I’ll have to fight some nerves, for sure, tomorrow. “Paul is a great guy. I’ve played a lot of golf with him, so I look forward to that. The score is low, so somebody could come from behind. It just doesn’t have to come from our group, somebody could post a low one, and we’re going to have to do the same thing.” Steve Stricker looks to the stands before puttting on the 18th hole. Stricker was tied for first at 15-under par with Paul Broadhurst. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker misses a birdie putt on the 18th hole. Stricker was tied for first at 15-under par with Paul Broadhurst. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Paul Broadhurst, left, celebrates his birdie putt on the 18th hole with Marco Dawson The Birdie tied Steve Stricker with the lead at 15-under par. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Paul Broadhurst lines up his putt on the 18th hole. Broadhurst birdied the hole to tie Steve Stricker with the lead at 15-under par. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Paul Broadhurst waits to putt on the 18th hole. Broadhurst birdied the hole to tie Steve Stricker with the lead at 15-under par. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Michael Phelps, and Andy North, right, walk up to the 18 hole. They were part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Derek Jeter hits his second shot on the 18 hole. Johnson was part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Michael Phelps and Andy North, right, walk up to the 18th hole during Saturday's celebrity foursome. Zach Johnson, left, Michael Phelps, and Andy North, and Derek Jeter after finishing the 18 hole. They were part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Derek Jeter, left, and, and Zach Johnson, right, walk up to the 18 hole. They were part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Michael Phelps, and Andy North, right, wait to putt on the 18 hole. They were part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerek Jeter after putting on the 18 hole. Jeter was part of the 2023 Am Fam Champ Celebrity foursome. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin. Justin Leonard lines up his putt on the 18th hole. Leonard ended the day in 3rd place. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Miguel Angel Jimenez hits out of the bunker on the 9th hole, his 18th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly prepares hits his second shot on the 9th hole, his 18th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Miguel Angel Jimenez hits his 2nd shot out of the bunker on the 9th hole, his 18th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly prepares to hit his second shot on the 9th hole, his 18th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin. Steven Alker hits out of the bunker on the 16th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin. Steven Alker hits out of the bunker on the 16th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker waits near the 16th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker walks up the 14th fairway. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker hits his second shot on the 18th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker lines up his putt on the 17th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker misses a birdie putt on the 17th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Paul Stankowski lines up his putt on the 1st hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steven Alker tees off on the 2nd hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker tees off on the 2nd hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker fixes a ball mark on the 8th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steven Alker lines up his putt on the 4th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Paul Broadhurst tees off on the 6th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Justin Leonard waits to hit on the 6th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Justin Leonard hits his 2nd shot out of the bunker on the 5th hole. Day two of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Saturday, June 10, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Justin Leonard walks off the 9th green after picking up a birdie on the hole. Leonard leads the American Family Insurance Championship after the first day. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Justin Leonard walks onto 9th green before picking up a birdie on the hole Friday at University Ridge Golf Course. He set the course and tournament record with a 10-under 62 on Friday. Justin Leonard gets a ruling about a lie before hitting his second shot to 9th green. Leonard picked up a birdie on the hole. Leonard leads the American Family Insurance Championship after the first day. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker hits his second shot on the 18th hole Friday at University Ridge Golf Course. Stricker parred the hole to finish 7 under. Steve Stricker hits his third shot on the 18th hole. Stricker parred the hole to finish 7-under and tied for second place. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Fans watch Jerry Kelly's group on the ninth hole during the first round. The tournament, which has been played at University Ridge since its inception in 2016, is moving to TPC Wisconsin in 2025. Steve Stricker, left, Steven Alker, middle, and Ernie Els, right after completing the round. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker walks off the 18th green after finishing 7-under and tied for 2nd place. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly waiting for others to finish on the 9th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Bobbi Stricker, daughter of Steve Stricker, is caddying for Fred Couples this weekend at the American Family Insurance Championship. Bobbi is in her first year on the Epson Tour, the developmental circuit for the LPGA Tour, after a four-year career at UW.  Fans watch Steve Stricker on the 14th hole at University Ridge Golf Course. Stricker, a Madison native, has the largest following from hole to hole during the American Family Insurance Championship.  Fans waiting on the 13th hole for the groups to move through. Day 1 of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Fans watching Jerry Kelly's group on the 9th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Vijay Singh hits out of the bunker on the 9th hole. Singh parred the hole and finished the round at 3-under and tied for 15th place. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Vijay Singh hits out of the bunker on the 9th hole. Singh parred the hole and finished the round at 3-under and tied for 15th place. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly hits a shot into the 9th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Retief Goosen hits out of the bunker on the 9th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly teeing up on the 11th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Miguel Angel Jimenez on the waiting to hit his second shot on the 11th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin. Jerry Kelly after missing a putt on the 11th hole. Day 1 of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Jerry Kelly after missing a putt on the 11th hole. Day 1 of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker on the 11th green. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin. Steve Stricker and his wife Nicki Stricker wait to hit on the 12th hole. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Steve Stricker lines up his forth shot on the 18th hole. Stricker parred the hole to finish 7-under and tied for second place. Day one of the American Family Insurance Championship was held Friday, June 9, 2023, at University Ridge Golf Course in Madison, Wisconsin.  Sent weekly directly to your inbox!   Madison resident Steve Stricker broke a 22-year-old record held by Tiger Woods during the first round of the American Family Insurance Champio… Justin Leonard leads at the American Family Insurance Championship after a record round, Madison native Jerry Kelly struggles and more.  A Sunday showdown between Steve Stricker and Jerry Kelly seems possible considering how both have been playing of late. The American Family Insurance Championship's tenure at University Ridge Golf Course is nearing its end, but some details are still being irone… How weather changes will alter the final round of the AmFam Championship, Bobbi Stricker launching her pro career, a beer-soaked hole-in-one a… Nicki, Izzi and Bobbi Stricker were first on the green to celebrate with Steve Stricker after he clinched a runaway victory. Here's how they reacted. Steve Stricker's strong mind, and golf game, came through on a cold, windy Sunday to help him win his first American Family Insurance Championship.  After a busy month of golf, including the American Family Insurance Championship, Madison native Jerry Kelly expected to take time off before … Steve Stricker's run over the past year has been compared to Tiger Woods. Here's a look at how Stricker's game matches the SentryWorld course …   Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.