Morgan Wallen starts his One Night At A Time Tour at American Family Field with two concert events on Friday, April 14 & Saturday, April 15, 2023. Joining Wallen are special guests HARDY, ERNEST, and Bailey Zimmerman. Fans can get their tickets via the Morgan Wallen Verified Fan sale powered by Ticketmaster. With this unique fan-first technology, every registrant is reviewed to make sure they are real fans who are interested in attending the show. Verified Fans will automatically be rolled into the added dates for the same city they initially requested as the originally announced dates sell out. Getting verified does not guarantee tickets; additional shows are being added to meet as much of the demand as possible. Fans who registered should keep an eye out for an email Tuesday evening with more information. As on his Dangerous Tour, $3 of every ticket sold benefits the Morgan Wallen Foundation which funds causes close to his heart and, to-date, has supported organizations such as Greater Good Music by donating over 500,000 meals-and-counting, to Children Are People, the Salvation Army and National Museum of African American Music. Navigate This Page: Show Dates: Friday, April 14 & Saturday, April 15, 2023 Show Times: 5:30 pm Gates Open: 4:00 pm Parking Opens: 2:30 pm Tickets for these shows are sold exclusively through Ticketmaster. Tickets will NOT be available for purchase through the Brewers Ticket Office. All tickets will be mobile-delivery only. There is a limit of 6 tickets per customer. Parking lots will open at 2:30 pm. Parking is available online to purchase when purchasing your concert ticket. Parking Rates: Attendees are strongly encouraged to purchase parking in advance of the shows as parking will not be guaranteed for purchase on the day of the event. There are five major gates at American Family Field. All attendees will be required to go through a fan screening process which includes walking through metal detectors. Please be sure to allow extra time for the screening process, locating your seats, buying memorabilia, and getting your wristband (if you have floor/on field tickets). Anyone with a Floor section ticket must obtain a field access wristband to access their Floor section seating. Each individual must be present their own barcode for a Floor seating area ticket. Wristband stations will be set up inside American Family Field on the Field Level concourse near sections 110, 118, and 127 beginning when gates open. Please check the Know Before You Go email the week prior to the event for more instructions. Message and data rates may apply. Text STOP to cancel or HELP for help. Expect up to 14 messages per week. Not a condition of receiving any goods or services. Tickets are available online at Ticketmaster.com. All tickets are mobile delivery for these shows. The Ticket Office will be open at 9:00 am on the day of the event and remain open until the headliner takes the stage. Will Call is located at the Box Office near the Home Plate Gate. Those picking up tickets will be required to present a picture ID of the designated will call name and credit card used for the purchase. No third-party Will Call will be accepted for this event; please distribute tickets in advance.