Get local news delivered to your inbox! The TPC Network has announced that it will license the Cherokee Country Club, which will be renamed TPC Wisconsin when it reopens next year under the design of pro golfer Steve Stricker.  The renovation of Cherokee Country Club’s golf course and its subsequent rebranding as TPC Wisconsin have fueled conjecture about a potential move for Madison’s annual pro golf tournament. It became reality Tuesday when the American Family Insurance Championship announced it will be played at TPC Wisconsin starting in 2025. The PGA Tour Champions event for players age 50 and older has taken place at University Ridge Golf Course since its inception in 2016. The former Cherokee course in the Town of Westport has been licensed as the 30th under the Tournament Players Club moniker and first in Wisconsin. It’s scheduled to reopen to members on Aug. 1 after a reconstruction directed in part by Madison’s Steve Stricker, the AmFam tournament host. “As you look around the country and other PGA Tour events, if there’s a TPC venue in town, a majority of tournaments are held at those venues,” said Nate Pokrass, the AmFam tournament director. “It made sense ultimately to develop and continue our partnership with the PGA Tour, the TPC Network and move the tournament in that direction in 2025.” This year’s tournament is scheduled for June 9-11 at University Ridge and the 2024 event will take place there as well. Pokrass said that’ll give time for the redesigned TPC Wisconsin course to mature and for organizers to plan the move to Madison’s north side in 2025. Crews at Cherokee Country Club, now known as TPC Wisconsin, are dredging waterways, raising the playing surface and improving turf conditions as part of a $15 million overhaul. The tournament uses more than 100 operational partners to put on the event at University Ridge. Those will be viewed from a new vantage point at TPC Wisconsin. “We’ll make sure we look at it from the lens of the fan, the volunteer, the sponsor, the player when we build that out,” Pokrass said. “Certainly, we’ll touch on all those elements.”   Parking for spectators is one of the main logistical questions, Pokrass said, and organizers are working on concepts for shuttles from nearby areas. The Dane County Regional Airport, Madison College and Warner Park have large parking areas within 3½ miles of TPC Wisconsin. The course is in the final stages of a $15 million overhaul that includes new fairways and greens, renovations to the clubhouse and practice facility and the development of a golf learning center. The state Department of Natural Resources in 2021 signed off on plans to fill wetlands and mine sand from under ponds to raise the playing surface. The reconstruction was set to disturb about 3 acres of wetlands but restore more than 30 acres of existing wetlands through the removal of invasive species. TPC Wisconsin owner Dennis Tiziani said the renovation wasn’t for the sole purpose of hosting the tournament. “We needed to update some things at the club, on the golf course,” said Tiziani, who’s Stricker’s father-in-law. “Steve and I got together on stuff and one thing led to another that to do something halfway or part way was probably not the way to do it.” And Tiziani said the tournament’s stay at University Ridge has set a high bar. “We’re most appreciative of what the university did and having that course there,” he said. “We’re hoping now in the transition that we can still stay the best.” The American Family Insurance Championship has a commitment to be part of the PGA Tour Champions circuit through 2027. It had more than $3 million in tournament revenue in 2022 and raised more than $2.2 million for charity. Paul Broadhurst hits a tee shot on the second hole during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Madison native Jerry Kelly hits from the first fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee hits a tee shot on the second hole during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Jaidee went on to win the tournament after posting a 68 on Sunday.  Miguel Ángel Jiménez walks off the second tee during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Madison resident and tournament host Steve Stricker hits from the first fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Madison resident and tournament host Steve Stricker hits a tee shot on the first hole during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. John Daly hits a tee shot on the second hole during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Jerry Kelly waves to the crowd on the ninth hole during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Jerry Kelly hits from the 18th fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Tom Pernice Jr. chips onto the ninth green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Kirk Triplett his from the ninth fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Marco Dawson hits from the ninth fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Paul Broadhurst chips onto the 18th green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. David Branshaw chips onto the ninth green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Miguel Ángel Jiménez hits form the 14th fairway during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. John Daly waits to putt on the ninth green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Golfers, from left, John Daly, Colin Montgomerie and Kirk Triplett along with their caddies play the 17th green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee chips onto the ninth green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee, left, and his caddie read a putt on the ninth green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee sinks his tournament-winning putt on the 18th green during the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee celebrates his victory on the final day of the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee, right, and his caddie celebrate after winning the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Thongchai Jaidee holds up the American Family Insurance Championship trophy after his win at the American Family Insurance Championship Sunday at University Ridge in Madison. Pokrass Get local news delivered to your inbox!   The TPC Network has announced that it will license the Cherokee Country Club, which will be renamed TPC Wisconsin when it reopens next year un… SentryWorld took extra steps to keep its course pristine in the leadup to the U.S. Senior Open. Here's a look at what players will face this summer.  While the American Family Insurance PGA Champions Tour event is scheduled to leave one of Madison's golf courses, the WIAA is eyeing a return.… The American Family Insurance Championship's tenure at University Ridge Golf Course is nearing its end, but some details are still being irone…     Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.