



Sign in or Subscribe 
See Offers



  Account Subscription: ACTIVE Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000. You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.  Learn more. With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page. With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. Rosseau Insurance acquire Audie Agency as owners of Audie retire.  Courtesy photo  BIDDEFORD — Rousseau Insurance Agency recently acquired the Audie Agency. For 65 years, the two family agencies operated as friendly neighbors just a few doors down from one another in Biddeford. The two agencies share a similar generational history that make the acquisition a natural fit. Rousseau Insurance Agency was established in 1959 by Paul and Therese Rousseau out of their home in Biddeford. Paul and Therese retired in 1995, passing the business down to the second generation — sons Marc Rousseau and Jim Rousseau and son-in-law, Ray Lambert. Today, the agency is owned and operated by the third generation — Matthew Rousseau, James Rousseau Jr., and Emily (Rousseau) Pelletier. The Audie Agency, originally known as Raymond O. Audie Insurance of All Kinds, was established in 1958 by Raymond O Audie Sr. and June G. (Grenier) Audie. Having grown up, worked, and lived in the Biddeford-Saco area all their lives, Raymond and June started their own insurance agency after Raymond worked with his uncle, Joseph S. Audie in the insurance and real estate business. Sons, Raymond O Audie Jr. and Bernard “Ben” Audie joined the agency in the 1980s. Since that time, the Audie Agency grew to become a full-service insurance agency providing personal and business insurance. After 65 years of professional service to their policyholders, Ray Jr. and Ben Audie have retired and sold the insurance agency to Rousseau Insurance Agency. Ray and Ben wish to thank all of their clients, business acquaintances, and friendships made along the way. Comments are not available on this story. Send questions/comments to the editors. 

			« Previous		
 

			Next »
		
 Sea Change's teachers deliver trauma-informed yoga to people who are in recovery or incarcerated, and to other under-served populations. The Portland-based food pantry began in a kindergarten class and has grown to serve about 1,000 kids. Maine Inside Out works with incarcerated and formerly incarcerated youth to ‘connect across boundaries.’ 