Feb. 6—Dear Readers: Here's a column that was published originally on Feb. 3, 2020. At the bottom of this column is a note from one of last week's writers. Dear Johnnie: As I live quite near the elevated Longmont water tank by Sunset Golf Course and Price Park, I've often wondered about its history and whether it has a function these days. I think I also once heard from a city employee that it is "tipping" a bit. Could you do some research and enlighten us on the history of this very significant local landmark? And just one additional comment: Johnnie St. Vrain is a wonderful feature of the Times-Call. Thank you for continuing it through these challenging and changing times in journalism. — A Retired Journalist Dear Retired: Why thank you — I know I'm no Woodward or Bernstein, but it's good to know my little contribution is making an impact somewhere. Now on to the investigation at hand. I was delighted upon receiving your question, because — like many in Longmont, I'm sure — I had absolutely no clue. I also have a soft spot for the classic TOWN NAME water towers that seem to dot the plains and Midwest. Something about them, like a metal backstop poking up from a field or a rusted pickup-truck ambling down a country road, seems to evoke the best of small-town America. To figure out the answers to your questions, I reached out to Rigo Leal, a Longmont spokesperson. And after he filled me in, I was quite surprised to learn that the tower hasn't been in service for more than three decades. "The water tower at Sunset Golf Course was built around 1940. The pump house and water tower were taken out of service in the mid-1980s, after the City of Longmont's water distribution system changed," Leal wrote in an email. "The pipe to the water tower was disconnected in 2003." So why is it still up? According to Leal, there's a good amount of telecommunications equipment on top of the thing that would need to be put somewhere else should it be torn down. And right now, he said, there's no plans to dismantle it. As for what you've heard about it tipping, he confirmed your suspicions, saying that it's doing so "slightly, but we are not concerned about its stability." Looks like the Leaning Tower of Pisa might have some competition. Leal also added an interesting anecdote. Apparently, after the 9/11 terrorist attacks occurred, a mysterious — and to this day, unknown — painter outfitted the water tower with a giant American Flag. "Faint remnants of that flag remain to this day," he said. Johnnie: I saw my overly detailed snow shoveling question was published in the paper. I wrote that when I was fairly angry about the man with the walker needing to be in the street. Since that time, the neighbors are shoveling the walk and hopefully our relationship is on the mend. If it is possible, please publish this apology. Yes, communication is best. — RG RG: Thank you for the note. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row.