Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. How to Get Clients Back on Track After an Unexpected Retirement Retirement Planning > Saving for Retirement 

By Jane Wollman Rusoff
 


Q&A



March 21, 2023 at 02:38 PM



Share & Print
 When unexpected retirement befalls a client, the financial plan for their golden years is instantly upended. What they need is a skilled, compassionate financial advisor. Meet a financial advisor who knows all about that scenario personally and precisely how to fix it professionally. “I have great empathy for my clients who experience unexpected change,” Jill Williams, a private wealth advisor at Ameriprise Financial whose Mindful Wealth Management practice is in Montclair, New Jersey, tells ThinkAdvisor in an interview. “I’ve been there, and I’ve reinvented. I’ve thrived in the face of disappointment and fear.” Williams was a singer and dancer in Broadway musicals for 15 years when she swapped showbiz for financial advising to end the nonstop, financially unstable employment cycle of shows opening and, inevitably, closing. Today, the certified financial planner has 270 clients, for whom she manages assets of $260 million, and is the sole financial advisor on her team of five. From the start, she guides clients to “be prepared for what comes their way” and helps them regroup should they get hit with an unexpected retirement. In her experience, that event is “not uncommon.” For such clients, “suddenly a 401(k) becomes a ‘201(k),’” she says. “Something happens out of their control, and they’re finished [saving and investing] way before the plan has them ready,” Williams notes. An Ameriprise poll, conducted between Nov. 30 and Dec. 6, 2022, of more than 300 advisors from that firm and others found overspending to be the No. 1 mistake of unexpected retirees who had never considered the possibility of losing their income. In the interview, Williams discusses this and their other top two mistakes. She was on tour performing in “Oklahoma” — the former actress also appeared in “The Secret Garden” and “A Chorus Line,” among several other shows — when she took up investing as a hobby. Seeing the “Oklahoma” tour drawing to a close, it wasn’t long before she left the stage for a job as a financial consultant at AXA Advisors at age 47. After that, she had stints at MetLife and Barnum Financial Group. In 2018, she opened Mindful Wealth Management under the Ameriprise umbrella. In our conversation, she discusses what unexpected retirees must do to get back on track and how to find an appropriate alternative income stream. ThinkAdvisor recently interviewed Williams by phone. She was speaking from Montclair. A certified divorce financial analyst, she typically works with more wives than husbands because, she says, “I have a heart for the non-CFO spouse.” Here are highlights of our interview: THINKADVISOR: A recent Ameriprise Financial Services survey of advisors found 12% of advisors indicated that their clients have retired unexpectedly. Have you had clients in that situation? JILL WILLIAMS: Yes. It’s not uncommon. That number feels low. Someone has a plan in place and then suddenly, their 401(k) becomes a “201(k)” — the balance is cut in half. So you have to start planning quickly about what you’re going to do. There are people who have plans to retire when they’re 65, and then something happens out of their control, and they’re finished way before the plan has them ready. The poll says that the three biggest mistakes of people who don’t factor in the possibility of losing their income are: overspending, not having an emergency fund and lacking an alternative stream of income. Your thoughts? Most people have no idea what it costs them to live their life. Chances are if you’re carrying credit card balances, you’re overspending. You should have an adequate cash cushion — an emergency fund in place: Three to 12 months of your fixed expenses should be in cash-equivalent checking, savings, CDs, money market funds. For the first time in 15 years, cash is back. So at least have a short-term bucket that’s finally offering meaningful interest. What’s your advice for unexpected retirees who don’t have an alternative stream of income? They need to network with everybody they know. Have their resume always tuned and ready, and lean in for advice because to reinvent, you need to take every opportunity that you can. Do you discuss backup career plans with your clients up front? Yes. we have those discussions ongoing, and every year we do checkups. We’re making sure about “what if” [scenarios]. What specifically do you advise along these lines? [Think about] what your interests are, what intrigues you, what haven’t you pursued because you’ve been so busy in the career that you’ve had. How do you begin your process with new clients? I tell them here’s where they are today — their baseline — and here’s where I see issues: You have debts. You have shortfalls. Here’s where you have risks. But I also tell them that they’ll be able to address all these over time. What are your main priorities as an advisor? Taking inventory and getting each client into a planning engagement are paramount. The plan is what informs the advice. If they currently don’t have an emergency fund, how are they going to get one? If they’re lacking an alternative stream of income and the unexpected occurs, how are they planning for that? There are lots of products that generate income now and in the future. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles I guide them to be prepared for whatever comes their way. There are levers you can pull: Spend less, earn more, take more risk and potentially get a higher rate of return over time. A number of your clients are in the creative arts, as were you before you became an advisor. How much awareness do these people have of unexpected retirement? I do have a lot of creatives and folks who are in that feast-or-famine, all-or-nothing [situation]. How are they going to replace their stream of income if they lose it? How are they going to get to security and stability and back on track? For most creatives [these questions] can seem daunting. I approach them with empathy, tremendous compassion and hope because I believe there’s always a way to survive and thrive if you’re willing to do the work that’s required. You yourself hadn’t expected to change careers, but you did. Why? My first career was working as a singer and dancer in Broadway musicals for 15 years. Every show ends, so every job ends. You go through that over and over again. A lot of artists are willing to starve — including the best of them — but I was never ready to starve. The other [negative] thing is: In that world, you age out a little bit. I was a single mom living in New York City with a mortgage and needed to find something more stable. My big driver was financial security. What was the turning point? I was facing down another Broadway tour coming to an end. During that tour, I developed an interest in investing as a sideline hobby. That’s when I decided to seek a second career. I went to my network of friends outside the theater. One was an executive in financial services, at AXA Advisors, and I asked her if there was anything I might pursue in her world. That’s where I started as a financial consultant. Once you became an advisor, at 47, how did you begin building your book of clients? I got in front of HR channels of big corporations and did financial education in the workplace at Fortune 500 companies. I was always comfortable with presenting and speaking. So it was easy for me to talk to large groups. That’s how I began. What other transferrable skills did you have as a performer that help you as an advisor? Discipline, navigating rejection, having confidence. How much do you like giving financial advice versus working on stage? The beauty in all this is that what I do now is absolutely my true calling and purpose. Performing wasn’t. And I can do this forever as long as I have my marbles. I will choose to do it. It’s such a wonderful career for women. So I have great empathy for my clients who experience unexpected change. I’ve been there, and I’ve reinvented. I’ve thrived in the face of disappointment and fear. Why do you call your practice Mindful Wealth Management? That name evokes the thoughtful approach to building, growing and protecting wealth. It’s not just the numbers. It’s the “why” behind the numbers. I ask my clients to be mindful. Are they when it comes to their money? If I see a disconnect with choices they’re making that conflicts with their values, I call it out. Knowing their values gives me a lens through which I view their plan and can offer advice that’s in alignment with what they told me is important. What’s the biggest challenge to financial advisors today, and what are you doing about it? One is navigating the ever-changing challenging landscape of regulation. Compared to when I started in the industry in 2003, regulation has become so much more complex. But I’m making sure I’m always doing the right thing that’s best for the client. Ultimately, [greater regulation] is good and important for investors, and it’s critical for me as a business owner. But it’s really complex and time-consuming. I spend probably 20%-30% of my time documenting everything I do. No shortcuts — I’m following the rules. So, regulation has become much more onerous. But that’s OK. (Pictured: Jill Williams) NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next