Feb 2, 2023 Echelon Wealth Partners named ‘Best-in-State Wealth Management Teams’ Echelon Wealth Partners, a private wealth advisory practice with Ameriprise Financial in Marshall, was named to the list of “Best-in-State Wealth Management Teams” published by Forbes. The list recognizes financial advisers and their teams who have demonstrated high levels of ethical standards, professionalism, and success in the business. The rankings are based on data provided by thousands of the nation’s most productive advisers and their teams. Echelon Wealth Partners was chosen based on assets under management, industry experience, compliance record and best practices in their practice and approach to working with clients. Fritz joins local office of Ameriprise Financial Aaron Fritz, CFP, has joined the Marshall office of Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC as a financial adviser. He is joining Echelon Wealth Partners a private wealth advisory practice of Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC.   “Aaron Fritz’s passion for helping clients address their financial concerns and delivering personalized investment, retirement and estate planning makes him a wonderful addition to our team,” said Randall D. Ehleringer, CFP, ChFC, CRPC, APMA, BFATM, and owner of Echelon Wealth Partners.   “Helping align my client’s actions with their financial goals is the core of my business, and it will continue to be,” said Fritz. “I’m excited to start this next chapter with Echelon Wealth Partners and Ameriprise.” He has 13 years of experience in the financial services industry. Echelon Wealth Partners has served the Marshall area since 1996. Fritz graduated from Mankato State University with a degree in accounting and business administration.  Lyons promoted at North Star Darik Lyons has been promoted to vice president of Research and Development for North Star Mutual in Cottonwood. He has worked for North Star since November of 2002 and most recently held the position of department manager. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox JMHS names Johnson as interim chief executive officer

The Johnson Memorial Health Services (JMHS) Board of ... Avera chief mission officer named

Avera announced that after an extensive national search, Dave Belde, PhD, has ... Skogrand achieves Circle of Success Recognition at Ameriprise Financial

Corey Skogrand, CFP, ChFC, CLU,  a ... Schwan’s Company announces partnership of the 2026 Special Olympics USA Games

Schwan’s Company and the 2026 ... Van der Hagen, Skogrand & Associates earns Ameriprise Client Experience Award

Van der Hagen, Skogrand & ... First Independent Bank announces new president, promotions

First Independent Bank announced the appointment of ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Marshall Independent | https://www.marshallindependent.com | 508 W. Main St., Marshall, MN 56258 | 507-537-1551 