
Ameriprise plans to tap into Charlotte’s highly skilled workforce and hire approximately 400 employees for a range of positions
 MINNEAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (NYSE: AMP) today announced it is opening a new corporate office in Charlotte, North Carolina, to support the ongoing needs of the company. Ameriprise has signed a two-story lease at the Barings Building, located at 300 South Tryon in Uptown Charlotte, where it plans to gradually fill approximately 400 positions from departments across the enterprise. Ameriprise remains headquartered in Minneapolis and maintains corporate sites in multiple locations across the U.S. and globally.

  
“Charlotte is a vibrant and growing city with a strong, diverse and talented workforce – and we’re thrilled to bring fulfilling and rewarding career opportunities to the market,” said Joe Sweeney, President – Advice & Wealth Management, Products and Service Delivery at Ameriprise. “The location, layout, and many amenities of the Barings Building make it a perfect fit. It will be an engaging and energizing office setting where employees can connect, collaborate, and continue to advance our 129-year legacy of serving clients.”

 
“Ameriprise has an excellent reputation as an employer and is known as a firm that makes positive, lasting impacts for the clients and communities we serve,” added Kelli Hunter Petruzillo, Executive Vice President of Human Resources at Ameriprise. “We encourage qualified candidates to explore career opportunities in Charlotte and the many other locations where we operate.”

 
Ameriprise expects to open the Charlotte office this fall.

 
About Ameriprise Financial
 
At Ameriprise Financial, we have been helping people feel confident about their financial future for more than 125 years. With extensive investment advice, asset management and insurance capabilities and a nationwide network of approximately 10,000 financial advisors, we have the strength and expertise to serve the full range of individual and institutional investors' financial needs.

 
Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC. Member FINRA and SIPC.

 
© 2023 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. All rights reserved.

 
Kathleen McClung, Media Relations
612.678.1069
Kathleen.h.mcclung@ampf.com
 
Kathleen McClung, Media Relations
612.678.1069
Kathleen.h.mcclung@ampf.com
