At the corner made famous by Mary Tyler Moore, downtown Minneapolis is slowly losing its retailers. And just a few blocks away, one of downtown's largest employers is planning to cut its office space in half. The latest store to announce its departure from downtown is Marshalls, a discount haven for nearly 30 years in the basement of City Center on Nicollet Mall. Just last month, Nordstrom Rack closed its store diagonally across Nicollet and 7th Street, the intersection made famous in the opening credits of TV's "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" from the 1970s. Separately on Friday, Ameriprise Financial confirmed that it will exit the 29-story skyscraper that has been its headquarters and consolidate its 4,600 office workers in another building it owns nearby. Many of those workers now spend three days a week at the office, working remotely the rest of the time. "This is an inevitable time of transition that got expedited by COVID-19," Mayor Jacob Frey said Friday. Next week, Frey is scheduled to announce details about a "vibrant downtown storefront work group" of business and city leaders to address challenges. The large department store model is a dying retail configuration, he said. He would like to see smaller, possibly locally owned retailers on Nicollet Mall. He also is interested to see retailers focused on experiences and is open to more service-oriented businesses such as dog day cares. "I've got an appetite for transition right now," Frey said. "I'm not going to be a picky eater when it comes to change." He pointed to the former Macy's store, which closed years ago and was transformed into the office and retail Dayton's Project. Its Winter Makers Market, now in its second year, has more than 60 vendors, including Red Wing Shoes and Faribault Woolen Mills. The Marshalls is expected to close Jan. 14. "We are always assessing and reviewing our real estate strategies, and our decision to close this store reflects that thinking," said TJX Cos., the department store corporation that owns Marshalls, T.J. Maxx and HomeGoods. The Marshalls and Nordstrom Rack closures are depressing blows to downtown even as vacant retail space in the Twin Cities has been steadily filling up in response to more people shopping brick-and-mortar sites. During the first half of 2022, the average retail vacancy rate for spaces in the metro area was a little over 10%, according to the commercial real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield. But in downtown Minneapolis, it was nearly 35%. While there has been a return of major events, downtown Minneapolis still isn't back to pre-pandemic foot traffic levels. As of the beginning of this month, the Minneapolis Downtown Council reported that downtown restaurants had 64% of the seated diners they had compared with pre-pandemic times. Building occupancy of some of downtown's largest buildings is at nearly 62%, the council reported. Even with more companies enforcing hybrid work models in which employees go to the office at least for a part of the week, the drop in downtown workers continues to hurt retail, said Carlos Castelán, managing director of local retail consulting firm the Navio Group. "With many people working from home, or even just heading into the office a few days a week, the foot traffic that retailers banked on for those stores has decreased significantly and changed the profitability equation for the stores," he said. Minneapolis-based Target Corp., downtown's largest employer, was the first major player to downsize its office space during the pandemic. It has cut its downtown office footprint by a third, exiting its offices in the City Center as more employees worked from home. Ameriprise said it employees will move in phases over the next three years out of Ameriprise Financial Center at 707 S. 2nd Av. The company, which moved into the building in 2000, said its lease there expires in 2025. It will relocate those workers to its client service center, a building it owns a couple of blocks away at 901 S. 3rd Av. Ameriprise has been renovating that space, adding skyway access and other amenities, such as a refurbished cafeteria and fitness center. The building will be renamed Ameriprise Financial Center Headquarters. "We are pleased to bring all of our Minneapolis employees into one contemporary building and energizing environment as we work together to deliver an excellent experience for our clients," Ameriprise said in a statement. "While still in the early stages, this begins an exciting new chapter in our longstanding presence in Minneapolis." Jonathan Weinhagen, president of the Minneapolis Regional Chamber, said he expects to see more changes as office leases come up in the next three to five years. "We have to embrace the future," he said. "We have to embrace the flexibility. If you're a company that's not looking at the future of the way people work, you're doing it wrong." Weinhagen added that he's glad that Ameriprise is "doubling down on downtown." "I think it's a net positive anytime we have a longtime downtown tenant who says, 'We want to stay here,'" he said. The Marshalls store downtown opened in May 1995 in the basement of the City Center complex. Because of its location in the business district, Marshalls carried a bigger assortment of career clothes than it did in its suburban stores. In downtown, Marshalls has been one of only a few remaining options for clothing shoppers. After decades of being home to bustling department stores such as Dayton's (which closed as a Macy's in 2017) and boutiques, major retail on Nicollet Mall has slowly disappeared. A Marshalls that sells more formal work clothing that shoppers can find at other stores likely wasn't unique enough to draw people into downtown on its own, said Toopan Bagchi, founder and managing director of Twin Cities retail consultancy Starship Advisors. "The only reason to [shop there] would be because I'm in an office for a set period of time over lunch ... but if I'm not there, there isn't a compelling reason for me to go," he said. Archeologists in Iowa believe they have unearthed an ancient mastodon skull dating back to when the first humans were roaming the Earth. While there have been signs of slowing in US economic growth data, corporate America is talking less about the threat of a looming recession. Planned Parenthood bus stationed at the Democratic National Convention, offering free medication abortion and vasectomies to convention attendees. Biden's expected to leave Chicago after his remarks Monday night. US President Joe Biden will give a bittersweet farewell address at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, passing the torch to Kamala Harris as the party's nominee for November's election."I'm nostalgic," said LaurieBeth Hager, a state representative from North Dakota in Chicago for the convention, hailing Biden as a "great president." With badges, access and studio space, DNC gives creators top billing as party courts Gen Z. House Intelligence Committee Chair Rep. Mike Turner, R-Ohio, criticized the Biden administration for weak policies toward Iran. The push to finalize a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza has reached a “decisive moment,” the United States’ top diplomat said Monday as Hamas and the Israeli prime minister expressed skepticism about progress in talks. The 2024 Democratic National Convention kicks off Monday in Chicago. Here's when you can expect to see Kamala Harris' speech. Former Trump chief of staff and retired Marine Gen. John Kelly rejected former President Donald Trump’s comments that the Presidential Medal of Freedom that honors civilians was “much better” than the Medal of Honor given to service members, telling CNN that the two honors are “Not even close. No equivalency of any kind.” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday hailed his forces' success in their surprise offensive into Russia's territory, an advance that triggered the Kremlin to rule out entering peace talks with Kyiv.Zelensky, who has ruled out direct talks with the Kremlin, demands Russia's full withdrawal from Ukrainian territory, including Crimea, and reparations. Rescuers were on Monday searching for six people missing after a luxury yacht was hit by a tornado and sank off the coast of Sicily, killing one of the 22 people on board. Plus: Black women taking the lead at this week's Democratic National Convention. How VP candidates compare on education. It's all on The Excerpt. A list of key dates through the November election, including mail-in ballot deadlines, debates, and early voting. Two people were found dead and at least 100 have been evacuated by rescuers after heavy rainfall in the Northeast brought dangerous flooding to Connecticut Sunday, with more on its way. Ukraine appeared to have blown up a number of key bridges in the Kursk region over the weekend as its troops pressed on with a daring incursion into Russia that Kyiv now says was aimed at creating a buffer zone to stop attacks across the border. Lithuania on Monday began construction of a military base, which will accommodate up to 4,000 combat-ready German troops once completed by the end of 2027, in the first permanent foreign deployment for the German military since World War Two.  Germany committed to deploy troops in the NATO and European Union member, which borders Russia, last year.  German Defence Minister Boris Pistorius compared the decision to the posting of allied forces in West Germany during the Cold War to defend Western Europe in case of a Soviet attack. Fixing Boeing won't happen overnight. Kamala Harris spent her adolescence in Montreal often pining for her California hometown, but former Canadian classmates remember the American presidential candidate as an outgoing student with a big smile, who loved dancing.Rudzitis remembers a "very smart" teenager with a lot of friends, who loved learning and spending time in the art room during lunch breaks. The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.