Processing.... Photo by JHVEPhoto from Shutterstock.com AmerisourceBergen Corporation is one of the most notable suppliers of over-the-counter medicine, pharmaceuticals, and health care equipment in the United States. AmerisourceBergen also provides healthcare and pharmaceutical-related services, logistics, reimbursement, and consulting aids to the federal government. Learn more about the top AmerisourceBergen government contracts here. Table of Contents  Photo by Dmitry Kalinovsky from Shutterstock.com On November 13, 2014, the Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support awarded AmerisourceBergen the firm-fixed-price arrangement for the prime vendor pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical-related products, support, and worldwide distribution. The contract entails provisions for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, DoD retirees and dependents, and civilians of federal agencies. The 30-month base contract with three 30-month option periods was worth $4 billion and awarded to AmerisourceBergen against three other bidders. Work was executed in Pennsylvania, and the contract was completed on May 12, 2017. Photo by Ground Picture from Shutterstock.com AmerisourceBergen acquired the contract of the Defense Health Agency’s Tricare Pharmacy Program worth $6 billion. Under its terms, AmerisourceBergen Corp. will act as the national prime vendor to supply and restock pharmaceutical goods and services to Tricare’s ordering sites and the Pharmaceutical Prime Vendor Global War Readiness Material. One of Tricare’s ordering sites is Express Scripts, an online pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) that offers a wide selection of drugs and specialty pharmaceuticals that are hard to procure. It also makes prescription medication safer and more affordable for customers and patients. The DHA’s contract follows a firm-fixed-price arrangement, with a two-year base followed by three two-year option periods, and was given to AmerisourceBergen. Work commenced in the continental US and will be completed by December 16, 2024.  Photo by diy13 from Shutterstock.com AmerisourceBergen secured the HHS’s contract allowing the Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) to expand monkeypox vaccine distribution and treatments. The agreement significantly bolstered the number of weekly shipments and delivery locations, promoted medical aid delivery, and prevented further infection spread. The firm-fixed-price agreement was worth $20 million and entailed that AmerisourceBergen provides 2,500 weekly shipments of Bavarian Nordic’s Jynneos vaccine for TPOXX distribution.  Image from www.dla.mil The DLA Troop Support Medical Team awarded the drug distribution company the next-generation contract. It provides additional benefits to military clients and their dependents and support for the DHA’s mail-order pharmacy program. The deal also expands product availability and access to specialty pharmaceuticals. This pharmaceutical agreement enabled customers to acquire medicines and pharmaceutical equipment that were previously inaccessible. According to the DLA Troop Support, this is one of the most sizable deals awarded by the Defense Health Agency. It took the Troop Support Team a year to ensure that the deal was in accordance with every DHA requirement and regulation, policy, and acquisition law; the agreement was confirmed to be awarded at the most favorable price.  Photo by Artur Wnorowski from Shutterstock.com On March 15, 2015, the DLA awarded AmerisourceBergen Corporation the 37-day bridge contract worth $66 million. Under the contract’s terms, AmerisourceBergen will provide pharmaceuticals and related products to customers of the Department of Defense and its five military divisions located in the southern region. The contract is a sole-source acquisition given to AmerisourceBergen with a fiscal 2015 appropriation type. It was begun in Pennsylvania and completed on April 30, 2015. AmerisourceBergen Corporation was founded in 2001 through the merger between BrunswigBergen and Amerisource Health Corporation. The executives comprising AmerisourceBergen Corporation’s leadership team include: AmerisourceBergen Corporation’s services include manufacturing and supplying, distributing services for humans and animals, offering pharmaceutical consulting services, and providing pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical-related products and equipment worldwide. The government contracts AmerisourceBergen Corporation secured helped improve many people’s lives and the federal government’s ability to provide top-caliber health care supplies and services in the United States. AmerisourceBergen’s foothold in the pharmaceutical industry enables it to build healthier futures, move health forward, and improve the well-being of humans and animals. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here