  Technology is interwoven with the majority of business processes these days, and while that comes with big benefits, it also adds big risks. Whether a business produces or simply uses tech tools, risks ranging from poor cyber hygiene habits and shadow IT to hoarding sensitive data and failing to plan for outages can stop a business in its tracks—and do lasting damage to the brand. While tech can simplify processes, it can also complicate a business’ risk status and vulnerability. Tech leaders and all higher executives must be aware of what can go wrong and have systems in place to head off preventable problems and quickly address inevitable ones. Below, 16 members of Forbes Technology Council discuss some tech-related risks executives frequently overlook or underestimate, and why they should be a priority. Too many companies hesitate to leverage the experts. There is an outdated aversion to “buy instead of build” that can keep traditional organizations constantly playing catch-up. In reality, tapping into a startup or tech company that has mastered the solution you need will save you time (and likely resources) in getting to market. - Kevin Lehtiniitty, Fortress Web3 Technologies Cybersecurity events show up in the news almost daily, but executives still overlook and underestimate the risk. Often, the “fine print” of a cyber event reveals a lack of covering the basics. Security patches, strong passwords, asset management and employee security training go a long way toward staying safe online. - Ann Westerheim, Ekaru Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? Executives often overlook whether their employees are happy and whether their needs are being met within the company. If overlooked, this leads to many talented team members leaving the company. Set up KPIs and methods to check for employee engagement so that you can keep the team members who build your company up tech-by-tech or service-by-service happy. - Somdip Dey, Nosh Technologies Don’t overlook validating users’ needs. Having a deep understanding of the needs and desires of your users, and getting their continuous feedback as their preferences evolve, is critical to prioritizing the backlog of any product. An intentional strategy of continuously collecting user feedback and acting on it helps create a sustainable product. - Anshul Sheopuri, IBM Many organizations rely on purchased software to run their business, yet they have no visibility into potential vulnerabilities that software might contain. Meanwhile, software vendors use off-the-shelf and open-source components to build their applications, which creates a blind spot. Often underestimated, this risk should be addressed by requesting or creating a software bill of materials. - Vince Arneja, GrammaTech Buying a SaaS product is easy for a mid-level manager with a corporate credit card. It resolves a problem he is facing right now, without IT running any interference. Yet, it also means that the system isn’t monitored, checked for vulnerabilities or integrated into cybersecurity and privacy considerations. With more and more sellers targeting these non-IT buyers, it will only get worse. - Kevin Korte, Univention IT leaders often overlook cloud applications’ security and adherence to IT general controls or standards or simply assume they meet them. If standards such as PII data encryption, sensitive data access, policies on user provisioning and proactive event monitoring are not followed, it will have significant costs in terms of audits and security breaches. Preventive and detective controls with process owners are a must. - Buyan Thyagarajan, Eigen X Every organization has a significant amount of data that is no longer used or needed (if it ever was needed). In the event of a data breach, this can result in significant brand damage, particularly if it contains personal information (regardless of whether it is current). Organizations typically overlook this dormant data risk, simply because the data might be of value. - Claude Mandy, Symmetry Systems Inc. It is dangerous to let engineers build software without preparing proper documentation. When certain people leave, there is a high risk the remaining team members will not be able to maintain the software in question. Hence, requiring documentation that enables any third party to take over seamlessly is a best practice for software engineering teams. - Roland Polzin, Wing Assistant I think the biggest blind spot for any company is not measuring the cost of standing still. And given the pace of change in technology, that cost is often massive when it comes to evaluating IT strategy. This has a ripple effect across the board, as companies should be factoring in hygiene and depreciation costs at the same time they introduce technology initiatives—but that rarely happens. - Matt McLarty, MuleSoft Companies can fail to properly train artificial intelligence tools before launching them at scale. Algorithms that automate chatbots and business processes are only as good as the data they’re trained on. If the data is incomplete and the AI inaccurate, businesses risk end-user ire and project failure. Executives can avert this by investing in AI-related R&D to ensure algorithms are trained on accurate criteria and data before they’re used. - Adrian McDermott, Zendesk Outsourcing is often a key area of underestimated risk. The past three to four decades have seen a significant trend toward outsourcing for cost efficiency, but in doing so, many executives have forgotten the adage, “You can outsource the responsibility, but not the accountability.” An outsourcing business faces the same risks as other businesses, and this can easily undermine its clients’ resilience and brand reputations. - Mark Brown, British Standards Institution (BSI) Insider threats are a big risk that tech and engineering leaders underestimate. An insider threat can be caused by a malicious or, in many cases, a negligent insider. It’s not uncommon for sales representatives to leave a company with customer lists or an engineer to leave with snippets of code. Executives need to be aware of the risk from insiders and have a mitigation plan. - Vishwas Manral, Skyhigh Security There is risk in over-reliance on a single cloud provider. Executives who underestimate this risk may find themselves in a difficult situation if their primary cloud provider experiences an outage or other major problem. A multicloud strategy can reduce the risk of future lock-in and increase bargaining power with cloud providers. - Aron Brand, CTERA The total cost of ownership of tech tools is an often overlooked and greatly misunderstood tech-related risk, as it includes maintainability, extensibility for near-future needs, speed of delivery, intellectual property value, training and learning curves, operational costs and other factors. This can drastically impact a company’s choices when it comes to technologies—it is not intuitive on the surface, but it has huge consequences. - Arthur Miller, equipifi One tech-related risk executives frequently overlook is ensuring that the tech team has well-documented and tested backup and recovery plans for all critical platforms and applications. These plans need to include the full stack, and testing has to be performed by the product owners. Without such efforts, an organization will have no way of recovering from a cyberattack or catastrophic operational failure. - Mark Schlesinger, Broadridge Financial Solutions 