 (Yicai) Sept. 4 -- Fifty-two Chinese companies manufacturing cars or auto parts, including new energy vehicle maker Xpeng Motors and battery giant Contemporary Amperex Technology, will attend the IAA Mobility 2023 that will kick off in Munich tomorrow. In addition to Xpeng, also carmakers Avatr Technology, Leapmotor Technology, Seres Group, SAIC Motor's MG Motor, Dongfeng Motor, and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group's Lotus Group and Polestar will exhibit their products at the IAA Mobility. Founded in 1987, IAA Mobility is the largest auto show in Europe. This year, it will be held between Sept. 5 and Sept. 10, featuring 675 exhibitors. Chinese electric vehicle battery manufacturers present at the event will be CATL, Eve Energy, Sunwoda Electronic, CALB Group, Rept Battero Energy, Farasis Energy, and seven others. Sunwoda will showcase cutting-edge battery technologies, such as fast-charging, sodium-ion, and solid-state batteries, and large cylinder cells. Chinese providers of smart driving solutions and hardware, including Horizon Robotics, EcarX Group, QCraft, Liangdao Intelligent Automotive Technology, DeepRoute, SenseTime Group, and Zongmu Technology are also set to appear at the IAA Mobility. The World New Energy Vehicles Congress will be also held in Munich this year for the first time outside China. It will kick off on Sept. 6. Europe is a key export destination for Chinese NEVs, as nearly half of Chinese NEVs exported in 2021 were delivered in Europe, according to a report from KPMG. Last year, the average Chinese car was sold at USD30,000 in Europe. By 2030, Chinese carmakers will make up 33 percent of the global market, up from 17 percent, said Paul Gong, head of China Auto, UBS Global Research. A handful of Chinese electric car firms will grow into global giants, and Chinese firms supplying EVs and related technologies will visibly benefit from that to become global leaders, Gong added. European automakers will lose the most in terms of market shares, especially those in the mainstream market. Editor: Futura Costaglione