 Log In Burlington, Massachusetts-based electrical manufacturers representative Yusen Associates recently announced its expansion into Upstate New York, according a company news release. The newly formed Syracuse-based division will be called Yusen-NY. Yusen-NY’s Regional Manager will work directly for Joe LiPuma, President of Yusen Associates. The division will have a locally-based outside sales team in each major market, according to the news release. Beginning in June, Yusen-NY will represent Lutron Electronics, MaxLite Lighting & Panasonic Ventilation. Another major manufacturer will be announced later this month, Yusen said. “We are excited to represent four premier manufacturer brands in a well-established territory,” said Joe LiPuma, President of Yusen. “We have represented these four manufacturers for more than a combined 85 years in the 6-state New England Market, with over 96 years in business. With the current Distributor, Manufacturer & Rep consolidation, this expansion is a natural progression for Yusen. We are looking forward to working with the strong Electrical Distribution network in Upstate New York. We understand the need for a local sales force and are fully committed to that. One of Yusen’s value propositions has always been the ability to have knowledgeable salespeople to regularly visit branch locations. We will do the same in Upstate New York.” Green Mountain expands to 18 locations with its acquisition of Scott Electric Supply. Swift Electrical Supply shared that inside sales representative Edward “Eddie” Bradow passed away on April… The deal marks the fifth location for Dickman Supply and expands the company’s geographical footprint… You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ