My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Taiwanese electronics giant, Foxconn will establish a manufacturing facility in Telangana which will create employment generation potential for over 1,00,000 people. A release from the Chief Minister's office said Hon Hai Technology Group (Foxconn) and the state government have signed an agreement at Pragati Bhavan where Foxconn Chairman, Young Liu called on Rao. The 'historic deal' has potential to generate employment to over one lakh people over a period of 10 years, it noted. The CM said his "government is on a mission to transform Telangana for better and has undertaken several marquee projects to realise the vision of Bangaru Telangana. Foxconn's unit will help in generating large scale employment to youth and will help attract more such industries to the state." Rao emphasized that Telangana considers Taiwan as a natural partner and that the state is glad to be a part of Foxconn's growth story. He called Foxconn's huge investment and the opportunity to create more than one lakh jobs like never before in Telangana 'commendable.' The Chief Minister further said steps will be taken to ensure that one lakh jobs are available to the state's youth and assured Young Liu that his government will provide necessary support to Foxconn for its operations in the state. The Foxconn Chairman lauded the friendly industrial development eco system created in Telangana and expressed happiness over the progress achieved by the state in the industrial sector, especially in IT and related electronics sectors, in just eight years. Rao hosted lunch for the Young Liu and his team. Later in the evening, Liu along with Telangana Minister KT Rama Rao inaugurated T Works a prototyping facility here. Speaking to reporters, Liu said his company is looking at sites and is currently evaluating the kind of products to be made in Telangana. The amount of investment depends on the products they plan to make.
         Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.