NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Christine McGuinness has heartbreakingly opened up about facing sexual abuse as a teenager. The Real Housewives of Cheshire star revealed the harrowing details of her past experiences in BBC documentary Christine McGuinness: Unmasking My Autism, in which she traces the link between her condition, her childhood eating disorder, teenage sexual abuse and her marriage to Top Gear presenter Paddy McGuinness. The pair, who share three children together who are also diagnosed with autism, separated last summer after 15 years together. Holding back tears, Christine learns from professionals that a high number of women with autism have a history with domestic and sexual violence. ‘I experienced that,’ the 34-year-old begins. ‘It was a long, long time ago, and I didn’t speak up, and I wonder if I’d never said it because I was autistic, like because was it me? Would a neurotypical woman have said something? Was it my fault? All of those questions. ‘But yeah, it is something I experienced when I was a teenager, and then when I met my husband, that was a time where I felt very safe. ‘And I wonder if that’s why I stayed in that relationship for 15 years.’ She adds that now being a single parent has left her ‘extremely vulnerable’, adding it ‘petrifies’ her. She continues: ‘I stayed in a place where I was probably unhappy because it was safe, and I don’t like change, and ultimately I wanted to keep my family together.’ Christine later tells the camera: ‘My relationships before I met Patrick were not very good. I’d say they were pretty bad experiences.’ Breaking down into tears, she continues: ‘Before Patrick I had been sexually abused, I was raped. I used to pray and it’s sad now when I think about it, I’d pray every night that I wouldn’t wake up in the morning. ‘I didn’t want to live, just because it was so awful. It was just awful.’ Christine’s words came after she also revealed her children had no idea she had separated from Paddy, 49, as they still lived together. She told Women’s Own: ‘The children don’t know any different and they’re growing up in a happy and loving home – I just want it to continue like that. Paddy McGuinness and Christine 'finally settle divorce' as star 'moves on with rapper' Sharon Osbourne has fans ‘howling’ with recreation of ‘iconic’ X Factor moment Molly-Mae Hague fans 'feel sick' after watching Tommy Fury moment 7 of the worst TV endings of all time after 'train wreck' Umbrella Academy finale ‘We don’t know what the future holds but right now it works.  ‘The thought of eventually co-parenting in separate houses is something I’m going to really struggle with.’ The newly-crowned 'best' commuter spot is a city I'll never go back to What I Own: We renovated our £590,000 Tooting three-bed but it's getting too small for us We bought a mouldy narrowboat on Facebook Marketplace — it saves us £10,000 a year in rent Need a guarantor for your new rental home? Here's the lowdown on who to choose Cheapest UK city for first-time buyers revealed — but it's ‘bleak’ for some Christine McGuinness: Unmasking My Autism is available to watch on BBCiPlayer. Victim Support offers support to survivors of rape and sexual abuse. You can contact them on 0333 300 6389. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Christine McGuinness ‘petrified’ of dating again following split from Paddy after 11 years of marriage

 

	MORE : Christine and Paddy McGuinness’ three children still don’t know their parents have split up as they continue living together

 



  Get us in your feed