A new trailer and poster have been released for the Dolly Parton impersonator story Seriously Red, starring Krew Boylan as Red, a rising Dolly impersonator; Rose Byrne, an Elvis Presley impersonator already on the scene, and Bobby Cannavale as Red’s prospective agent.  Here’s the film’s synopsis: Red (Krew Boylan) lost her job as a real estate agent, but there’s something no one can take away from her: her dream of becoming the world’s greatest Dolly Parton impersonator! After her act attracts the attentions of an amorous Elvis impersonator (Rose Byrne) and a powerful booking agent (Bobby Cannavale), Red is catapulted into the top tier of copycat acts, becoming the onstage and romantic partner of the top Kenny Rogers impersonator. But when Red’s life as an imitator starts to feel false, she discovers true happiness comes when you’re being the best version of yourself. This looks like a really fun movie with an original underdog story that will make us smile. Seriously Red premiered at SXSW film festival, and it’s set to hit theatres and PVOD on February 10th, just in time for Valentine’s Day. Check out the trailer and poster below, and enjoy. I’m Jessica Fisher! I love being a wife and mom, and I love movies and TV. I’m a murderino, and love to travel and write. I love Disney and the beach, and being awesome. My favorite things to geek out on are the podcast My Favorite Murder, The Handmaid’s Tale, Mindhunter, Cobra Kai, The Wonder Years, and The Walking Dead. My favorite movies are About Time, 50/50, pretty much anything with Jason Segel and/or Paul Rudd, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Dirty Dancing, and so many others. I love the books Little Women and Harry Potter, and love stand-up comedy. I love writing for GeekTyrant! All names, trademarks and images are copyright their respective owners.   ///   Copyright / DMCA Notice
Copyright © 2008-2024, GeekTyrant Industries, LLC. All rights reserved.
Cookie Declaration  ///   Privacy Policy
Links monetized by VigLinkCustom Code and Design by, Free Reyes