Here's what to know about Sharkware, being unveiled at ISE 2023.  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 LEA Professional, a leading manufacturer of innovative, high-quality pro audio amplifiers with cloud- and IoT-based technologies today announced the launch of its first ever application software, Sharkware. Developed in part based on integrator and customer feedback, Sharkware allows integrators to work both in offline design and online mode on a systems amplification configuration to ensure a more seamless, accessible, and flexible user experience with all LEA Professional Connect Series amplifiers. Sharkware will be on display at ISE 2023 at LEA Professional’s Booth 7J100. [LEA Professional's Brian Pickowitz Looks at New Revenue for the New Year] “At its core LEA Professional is a technology company, and we are working to provide customers with the smartest, most flexible tech possible to ensure their AV systems are built for the future,” commented Nick Mourn, applications engineering and consultant relations manager. Since its establishment in 2019 LEA Professional has been changing the amplifier market with industry-first technology that has given power back to the integrator and customer with options for remote monitoring and recurring revenue streams. Sharkware is the company’s first software launch and joins the ranks of the company’s already successful Web UI and Cloud applications. [Road to ISE 2023: Products, Updates, News at AV Network ISE 2023 Central]  Free to download and available for both Windows and Mac, Sharkware includes features such as amplifier grouping, offline design, granular user access control levels, locked speaker tunings, and a graphical EQ. Sharkware also incorporates key features from LEA Professional's existing Web UI tool, allowing users to monitor the status of every amplifier connected to the network as well as the status and performance of individual channels. In addition, the software gives users the ability to view and adjust channel settings such as input settings, signal generator, crossover, equalizer, limiter, and load monitoring for all LEA Professional Connect Series amplifiers. A daily selection of features, industry news, and analysis for AV/IT professionals. Sign up below. “This technology is not only extremely accessible but will transform the day-to-day operations of every integrator who utilizes it,” concluded Mourn. The AVNetwork staff are storytellers focused on the professional audiovisual and technology industry. Their mission is to keep readers up-to-date on the latest AV/IT industry and product news, emerging trends, and inspiring installations. The State of Networked AV Roundtable - Join Us on Aug. 21 Editorial: AI Can Help Us All Be Lions SDVoE Alliance Watch: Introducing the High Sec Labs, the Latest Adopting Member AVNetwork is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 