If you think only rabbits, cats, and pups are the ambassadors of cuteness, you might be missing the real gem. Don’t believe us? Have a look at this cute, little fellow!  Image Source: Adobe Stock   Creatures like these are often ignored, but people who pay close attention to the bounty of beauty the Almighty has bestowed upon the earth. Very few people pay a close look at all the creatures we share the planet with.  Have you ever looked at a squirrel closely? Let us throw out a fun fact today!     While you must be acquainted with the cute whispering sound made by squirrels, not many of us know that squirrels are able to make many types of sounds. For instance, squirrels bark, squeak, buzz, and grunt.   God has bestowed upon every creature the power of voice to convey messages and protect themselves and their peers from predators. Most commonly, one will hear “Kuks”- sharp barks that alarm against immediate threats. One would hear such noises multiple times in a row when squirrels get encountered by an immediate threat.   Another type of noise made by squirrels is the Quaas. A quaa is different from a kuk in just a simple way- the former is longer than the latter.   Buzzes are yet another type of sound made by squirrels. These are low, amplitude sounds that are usually inaudible unless the proximity is too close. Such sounds are sometimes referred to as muk-muk by researchers. When do squirrels make such noises? Well, such low-amplitude sounds are made by baby squirrels when they are asking for food. Isn’t it adorable? Just imagine a tiny squirrel making a low-amplitude sound in order to get food! Such sounds are also made by male squirrels when they are looking for a mate.   Now that we have entertained you with some information regarding the cute noises made by these adorable beings, let us tell you what happened today with us this morning!   This morning, a tiny yet brave squirrel rushed to our office building, came up to our office through the lift, and rushed to enter, escaping the sight of the guards at the door. Next, it stood tall on the center table, grabbed a mic, and started singing a song. Once it got successful in grabbing our attention, it said out loud, “CATCH ME IF YOU CAN!”   Since then, we have left all our tasks and are eagerly looking for the naughty, hidden squirrel!  Can you help us find it? Optical Illusion: Finding the eagle in this image is not as easy as it seems. Can you spot the hidden eagle? There are no rules. The sooner you help us find the hidden squirrel, the better!   Image Source: Brain Quiz (YouTube)   Image Source: Brain Quiz (YouTube) While the squirrel not only hampered our work but also made us do some cardio, the view of the adorable, mischievous squirrel made it all worth it! Thank you, little fellow! Brain teasers with answers: Brain teasers are a unique way to recharge the mind. Try these exciting brain teasers!   Get here current GK and GK quiz questions in English and Hindi for India, World, Sports and Competitive exam preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Current Affairs App. India Post GDS Result 2024 Released: इंडिया पोस्ट जीडीएस की पहली मेरिट लिस्ट जारी, यहाँ देखें सभी सर्किल का PDF Link   Spot 3 Differences Between Alladin's Lamp Pictures in 26 Seconds  eShram Card: क्या है ई-श्रम कार्ड? लाभ, पात्रता और ऑनलाइन अप्लाई की सभी डिटेल्स यहां देखें, e-shram Card Download का तरीका  इंडिया पोस्ट GDS रिजल्ट 2024 घोषित, यहां देखें Circle-wise 1st मेरिट लिस्ट PDF  RUHS BSc Nursing Answer Key 2024: बीएससी नर्सिंग परीक्षा की उत्तर कुंजी ruhsraj.org पर जल्द, यहां देखें PDF डाउनलोड करने का Direct Link  UPSC NDA 2 Admit Card 2024 Soon at upsc.gov.in; Check Exam Details   UP Police Constable Admit Card 2024 Live Update: आज शाम 5 बजे से डाउनलोड करें यूपी पुलिस के एडमिट कार्ड, यहाँ देखें सभी डाउनलोड लिंक   JPSC Recruitment 2024: Apply Online For 170 Forest Range Officer Posts, Check application process   Indore University Result 2024 OUT: देवी अहिल्या विश्वविद्यालय  परिणाम घोषित, यहां देखें UG, PG सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट   ICC WTC Points Table (2023-2025): Latest World Test Championship Standings and Ranking  MP Board Class 10 Latest Syllabus 2024-25: Download Subject-Wise Pdfs For Free  JNCU Result 2024 OUT: जननायक चंद्रशेखर यूनिवर्सिटी BA, MA, MSc, BCom, MCom सहित अन्य सेमेस्टर रिजल्ट घोषित, ये रहा Direct Link  ICSE Class 10 Environmental Applications Specimen Question Paper 2024-25: Download PDF With Marking Scheme   Himachal Pradesh University Result 2024 OUT: यहां देखें BCom, BSc Nursing, MBBS, MSc, BDS सहित अन्य UG, PG मार्कशीट, Direct Link  Bihar Police BPSSC SI Marksheet 2024 OUT: BPSSC सब इंस्पेक्टर फाइनल रिजल्ट के साथ यहां से डाउनलोड करें मार्कशीट  MJPRU Result 2024 OUT: यहां देखें BA, BSc, BTech, BCom, BCA, MA, MSc, MCom सहित सभी UG & PG, Annual & सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट PDF   Difference between Catholic and Christian  UP Police Admit Card 2024: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  India Post GDS Result 2024 OUT at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in: Download Circle-wise 1st Merit List Here  Math Puzzle: You have a high IQ if you can solve this math puzzle in 12 seconds! 