This medical technology heavyweight is on a mission to transform pharmaceutical solutions and reshape medication administration. BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) is set to participate in CPhI Barcelona 2023. This event will take place from 24 to 26 October 2023 in Barcelona, Spain, and will primarily focus on the latest advancements in pharmaceutical packaging and drug delivery systems. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. BD plans to showcase its extensive range of products and solutions designed to meet the evolving needs of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors. At the conference, BD will present a diverse portfolio of products, services and integrated solutions. These offerings are tailored to assist pharmaceutical and biotech companies engaged in developing combination products. BD’s experts will be available at the event to engage in discussions about the future of drug delivery. BD will introduce its pre-fillable syringe (PFS) portfolio, including the BD Effivax Glass Prefillable Syringe. This next-generation glass pre-fillable syringe has been developed in collaboration with leading pharmaceutical companies to meet the complex requirements of vaccine manufacturing. It sets new performance standards with enhanced specifications for processability, aesthetics and integrity. BD is actively involved in supporting the delivery of medications addressing chronic diseases such as diabetes, obesity, oncology and autoimmune disorders. Their advanced drug delivery systems include self-injection systems suitable for a wide range of volumes and viscosities. Notable products include the BD Libertas Wearable Injector, designed for the subcutaneous delivery of large-volume, high-viscosity biologics in a single-use, disposable “ready-to-use” system and the BD Evolve On-body Injector, a programmable on-body injector allowing subcutaneous administration of up to three millilitres of medication over three days of wear. BD also offers solutions for customers seeking to co-pack or co-deliver administration devices with their drugs. These services are often utilised to ensure proper administration, serve end-users, or manage drug administration materials, particularly in clinical trials. BD’s devices cover a broad range of applications, including ophthalmic drug reconstitution, cell and gene therapies, home use of chronic drugs and vaccination campaigns. A wide range of services will be presented, including BD Pharmaceutical Services and Solutions and ZebraSci. combination product services. These services aim to assist pharmaceutical companies in achieving their goals from the development stage to product launch. BD will also feature an “Innovation Corner” where they will unveil new product innovations and concepts. These innovations focus on product traceability, quality, digital connectivity of injection data and a flexible large-volume solution platform to cater to patients’ medication delivery needs. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Inside Packaging : Packaging Gateway Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the packaging industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024