 As Q2 earnings season comes to a close, it’s time to take stock of this quarter's best and worst performers amongst the data analytics stocks, including Amplitude (NASDAQ:AMPL) and its peers. Organizations generate a lot of data that is stored in silos, often in incompatible formats, making it slow and costly to extract actionable insights, which in turn drives demand for modern cloud-based data analysis platforms that can efficiently analyze the silo-ed data. The 5 data analytics stocks we track reported a weaker Q2; on average, revenues beat analyst consensus estimates by 1.27%, while on average next quarter revenue guidance was 2.11% under consensus. Technology stocks have been hit hard on fears of higher interest rates as investors search for near-term cash flows and data analytics stocks have not been spared, with share prices down 13.8% since the previous earnings results, on average. Born out of a failed voice recognition startup by founder Spenser Skates, Amplitude (NASDAQ:AMPL) is data analytics software helping companies improve and optimize their digital products. Amplitude reported revenues of $67.8 million, up 16.6% year on year, beating analyst expectations by 1.31%. It was a solid quarter for the company, with a significant improvement in its gross margin and optimistic revenue guidance for the next quarter.  Amplitude scored the fastest revenue growth and highest full year guidance raise of the whole group. The company added 169 customers to a total of 2,344. The stock is up 8.25% since the results and currently trades at $11.55. Is now the time to buy Amplitude? Access our full analysis of the earnings results here, it's free. Started by Peter Thiel after seeing US defence agencies struggle in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks, Palantir (NYSE:PLTR) offers software as a service platform that helps government agencies and large enterprises use data to make better decisions. Palantir reported revenues of $533.3 million, up 12.7% year on year, missing analyst expectations by 0.1%. It was a mixed quarter for the company, with underwhelming revenue guidance for the next quarter. On the other hand, the company raised full year guidance for both revenue and adjusted operating income. Palantir had the weakest performance against analyst estimates among its peers. The stock is down 11.4% since the results and currently trades at $15.93. Is now the time to buy Palantir? Access our full analysis of the earnings results here, it's free. Founded by Josh James after selling his former business Omniture to Adobe, Domo (NASDAQ:DOMO) provides business intelligence software that allows managers to access and visualize critical business metrics in real-time, using their smartphones. Domo reported revenues of $79.7 million, up 5.48% year on year, in line with analyst expectations. It was a weak quarter for the company, with full-year revenue guidance missing analysts' expectations. In addition, the company continued to burn cash. The stock is down 41.9% since the results and currently trades at $9.9. Read our full analysis of Domo's results here.  Initially created as a way to organise census data for the government, Alteryx (NYSE:AYX) provides software that helps companies automate and analyse their internal data processes. Alteryx reported revenues of $188 million, up 4.08% year on year, beating analyst expectations by 3.34%. It was a weak quarter for the company, with ARR, revenue, and non-GAAP operating income guidance for the next quarter all missing expectations. In addition, full year guidance was lowered across the board. Alteryx achieved the strongest analyst estimates beat but had the weakest full year guidance update among the peers. The stock is down 2.07% since the results and currently trades at $36.83. Read our full, actionable report on Alteryx here, it's free.  Founded by healthcare professionals Tom Burton and Steve Barlow in 2008, Health Catalyst (NASDAQ:HCAT) provides data and analytics technology to healthcare organizations, enabling them to improve care and lower costs. Health Catalyst reported revenues of $73.2 million, up 3.65% year on year, in line with analyst expectations. It was a weak quarter for the company, with a decline in its gross margin and underwhelming revenue guidance for the next quarter. Health Catalyst had the slowest revenue growth among the peers. The stock is down 21.9% since the results and currently trades at $10.11. Read our full, actionable report on Health Catalyst here, it's free.  Join Paid Stock Investor Research Help us make StockStory more helpful to investors like yourself. Join our paid user research session and receive a $50 Amazon gift card for your opinions. Sign up here. The author has no position in any of the stocks mentioned All market data (will open in new tab) is provided by Barchart Solutions. Copyright © 2024. Information is provided 'as is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice. For exchange delays and terms of use, please read disclaimer (will open in new tab). © Copyright 2024 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. Andrew Saunders, President and CEO