SAN DIEGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Tentarix Biotherapeutics, a biotechnology company focused on leveraging its proprietary Tentacles™ platform to discover and develop multi-functional, conditional protein therapeutics, today announced it has raised $35 million in a Series B financing led by Amplitude Ventures with participation from Gilead Sciences, Inc., and founding investors Versant Ventures and Samsara BioCapital. 
“With the support of this group of industry-leading investors, we are well-capitalized to continue advancing our promising Tentacles™ platform,” said President and CEO Paul Grayson. “This financing, combined with our recently announced collaboration with Gilead, extends our cash runway and enables us to expand our pipeline of cell-specific, conditionally active multifunctional biologics that have the potential to tackle previously undruggable targets.” 
“Amplitude believes that multifunctional biologics enable more powerful therapeutic approaches, and we are convinced that Tentarix’s unique technology platform leads the industry," said Amplitude’s Allyson Tighe, who joined Tentarix’s board in connection with the Series B financing. "We’re excited to be working with this exceptional management team and investor syndicate to further advance this work and to enable meaningful therapies for patients.” 
Since inception, Tentarix has now brought in $132 million in capital from equity and upfront partnership payments. 
About Tentarix 
Tentarix’s mission is to develop first-in-class targeted, multifunctional, conditional therapies. The Company is focused on modalities that have cell-specific function and has built a team that aims to transform biologics. For more information, please visit www.tentarix.com. 
About Amplitude 
Amplitude is a full-stack venture capital firm employing a unique growth model to build companies with novel science, world-class management teams, and big visions and to scale those companies to breakout potential. With over $ 500M under management and offices in Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver, Amplitude applies a proven, evidence-based approach to investing in leading precision medicine companies. Please visit amplitudevc.com. 
About Versant Ventures 
Versant Ventures is a leading healthcare venture capital firm committed to helping exceptional entrepreneurs build the next generation of great companies. The firm’s emphasis is on biotechnology companies that are discovering and developing novel therapeutics. With $5.4 billion under management and offices in the U.S., Canada and Europe, Versant has built a team with deep investment, operating and R&D expertise that enables a hands-on approach to company building. Since the firm’s founding in 1999, more than 95 Versant companies have achieved successful acquisitions or IPOs. For more information, please visit www.versantventures.com. 
About Samsara BioCapital 
Samsara BioCapital is a new breed of biotech investment fund focused on translating cutting-edge biology into new therapies to treat patients with unmet medical needs. Founded in 2016 by Srinivas Akkaraju, M.D., Ph.D., our team of scientists, investors and entrepreneurs takes a long-term view to value creation across all stages of public and private life science companies. We believe in a collaborative, hands-on approach, working closely with entrepreneurs to harness exciting scientific advances and build leading companies. Samsara actively manages assets on behalf of endowments, foundations and family offices. For more information, please visit www.samsaracap.com. 
Tentarix Contact:Brady Johnson
ir@tentarix.com 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.