Trident dials up weaving and washing to boost bath and bedding   Home Textiles Today Staff
//News & Commentary//March 14, 2023							  New York – Is Trident the new king of jacquard production? The major Indian mill has now doubled the number of jacquard looms it operates with an eye on expanded opportunities in the beach and bath towels businesses. “As far as we can tell, we are now the largest jacquard towel manufacturer in the world,” said Jeffrey Kambak, CEO of US operations for The Trident Group. The new looms are high-capacity and high efficiency, he added. At New York market, Trident is putting the range in the spotlight with an array of double jacquards, single jacqs, yarn dyes and reversible cabanas. The manufacturer has also installed an in-house washing facility to boost to pre-washed sheeting production. And Trident remains the largest spinner of mélange yarns – a core competency also on display during market week. For e-comm, the company has added a presentation of ready-to-go products designed exclusively for the online business. They include quick-dry towels and all-cotton sheets in both solid colors and prints. The consumer “is not exploring online. She’s stocking up,” said Julie McKenzie, who recently joined Trident as chief commercial officer. “When she knows she needs that product, she’s quick to go online.” Trident’s showroom is located at 320 5th Ave.   Share this! 
                                    The reimagined Temps will create “new, inspiring destinati[...] August 16, 2024 
                                    The print edition of HTT’s big New York Home Fashions Mark[...] August 14, 2024 
                                    The September market cocktail gala – co-presented by the H[...] August 13, 2024 
                                    The print edition of HTT’s big New York Home Fashions Mark[...] August 13, 2024 
                                    The print edition of HTT’s big New York Home Fashions Mark[...] August 12, 2024 
                                    The print edition of HTT’s big New York Home Fashions Mark[...] August 9, 2024 Signup for your daily digest of industry news and trends.   Home Textiles Today provides industry news, product trends and introductions, exclusive industry research, consumer data, store operations solutions, trade show news and much more. Sign up to get exclusive industry information delivered to your inbox.   © 2024 BridgeTower Media. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to its Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy