Meta has sued digital surveillance firm Voyager Labs for allegedly creating 38,000 fake, unauthorized accounts to collect personal data from 600,000 Facebook users. Meta has sued a digital surveillance firm Voyager Labs for allegedly creating 38,000 fake, unauthorized accounts to collect personal data from 600,000 Facebook users. In a federal complaint asking a California court to ban Voyager from Facebook and Instagram, the tech giant alleged that the UK digital surveillance company scraped Facebook and Instagram users’ “viewable profile information” such as posts, likes, friends lists, photos, and comments. Data was allegedly also taken from Facebook Groups and pages.  Voyager then approached companies who had an interest in surveilling social media sites undetected and sold its tool to the highest bidder, Gizmodo reports. The company also created accounts to scrape data from Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, and Telegram. Meta, which owns Facebook, is the only social media company affected to file a lawsuit against Voyager so far. In a blog post about the filing, Meta said Voyager has “violated” Facebook’s Terms of Service against fake accounts and unauthorized and automated scraping. To scrape user data, Voyager used a “diverse system of computers and networks in different countries to hide its activity,” Meta added. The post continued, “companies like Voyager are part of an industry that provides scraping services to anyone regardless of the users they target and for what purpose, including as a way to profile people for criminal behavior.” “This industry covertly collects information that people share with their community, family and friends, without oversight or accountability, and in a way that may implicate people’s civil rights.” In 2021 it was reported by The Guardian that the Los Angeles Police Department had used a free trial of Voyager’s software in 2019 after the company had pitched it to them as a surveillance tool for the monitoring of thousands of a potential suspect’s online friends.  As The Guardian reported, the LAPD was told that through use of the tool, police officers could “predict” crime before it happened.  Voyager did not immediately respond to PCMag’s request for comment. Earlier this week, the Supreme Court allowed Meta to pursue a lawsuit against Israeli spyware company NSO Group for “unlawfully” accessing WhatsApp servers when installing spyware on users’ devices. And last month, in less flattering news for Meta, the company agreed to pay $725 million to settle a class-action lawsuit that accused the social media company of sharing its users’ personal data with third parties without their consent.  The lawsuit, which dates back to 2018, came after it was revealed Facebook had shared the personal data of up to 87 million users with the British consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I am interested in how technology and human rights intersect, and how technology shapes cultural trends. I have a master's degree in Investigative Journalism from City University London. Read Marco's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.