Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  A growing team of nearly 50 employees at the neurotech startup Paradromics is working on a brain implant that sounds like the work of science fiction. And it has caught the attention of federal regulators. Paradromics, founded in 2015, is developing a device that could help patients with severe paralysis regain their ability to communicate by deciphering their neural signals. And on Thursday, the Austin, Texas-based company announced that it has received the Breakthrough Device designation from the Food and Drug Administration for its flagship system, called the Connexus Direct Data Interface.  CEO Matt Angle said the designation, in addition to a $33 million funding round the company also announced Thursday, will help Paradromics bring its device to market.   Paradromics is part of the emerging brain-computer interface, or BCI, industry. A BCI is a system that deciphers brain signals and translates them into commands for external technologies. Experts believe the systems could someday help treat maladies like blindness and mental illness.    Perhaps the best-known name in the space is Neuralink, thanks to the high profile of its co-founder Elon Musk, who is also the CEO of Tesla, SpaceX and Twitter. Scientists have been studying BCI technology for decades, and several companies have developed promising systems that they hope to bring to market. But receiving FDA approval for a commercial medical device is no small task — it requires companies to successfully conduct several extremely thorough rounds of testing and data safety collection. As of May, no BCI company has managed to clinch the FDA's final seal of approval. Paradromics' BCI, the Connexus Direct Data Interface, is an assistive communication device that translates neural signals into text or synthesized speech. An array of tiny electrodes is implanted directly into the brain tissue, where it measures and deciphers brain signals that are ultimately emitted to external devices through a transceiver that sits under the skin in the chest.  "It's essentially taking some of the things that have been successful in previous clinical trials, and then improving on them from an engineering standpoint to make them better," Angle told CNBC in an interview.  Angle said the company's BCI is designed to last around 10 years and will initially be used to help patients who have lost their ability to physically communicate. The device will require invasive brain surgery, but Angle said the quality of the neural signals it can measure will allow patients to communicate at a faster and more natural rate than they could with a less invasive BCI, like the one being developed by Paradromics competitor Synchron.  So far, regulators seem to be on board with Paradromics' approach. The FDA's Breakthrough Device designation is granted to medical devices that have the potential to provide improved treatment for debilitating or life-threatening conditions. The agency has granted 32 of these designations in fiscal 2023 so far, according to its website.  Angle said the designation will help create a "fast track" for communication between the FDA and Paradromics. It's an advantage that could be key for getting regulators to more quickly approve future clinical trials.  The company is currently conducting animal safety trials, and the data from those trials will help the FDA determine whether to approve an in-human study. Angle said Paradromics is hoping to launch its first clinical trial with human patients in the first half of 2024.  The startup's new $33 million funding round was led by Prime Movers Lab. "It's a beautiful story," Prime Movers Lab founder and general partner Dakin Sloss told CNBC in an interview. "And it's a real technology that's working now, today. It's not like a pipe dream that you gotta wait 10 years for." Angle said it is an exciting time in the BCI field, especially as multiple companies are working to distinguish themselves in an industry that he estimates will create billions of dollars in value. But while it is easy to get excited about the future capabilities of BCIs, Angle believes a lot of good can already be done.  "A lot of people are excited about the futuristic, kind of speculative applications. But the reality of brain-computer interfaces is, in some ways, more exciting," he said. "It can transform what would otherwise be really challenging problems in brain health." Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by