Southwest Airlines employees bear brunt of travel disaster amid canceled flights Southwest Airlines employees bear brunt of travel disaster amid canceled flights The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Southwest Airlines employees bear brunt of travel disaster amid canceled flights Southwest Airlines customers are not the only ones impacted by the company's meltdown in the days after Christmas. WBAL-TV 11 News has seen and heard stories of customers sleeping on airport floors, stranded without a clue when they'll make it home. | RELATED: Conditions improve slightly since Southwest's flight cancellations, delays Southwest employees have been impacted, too, and some told 11 News they're just as frustrated as customers. "Our passengers have come to us with tears. Our flight attendants are coming to their union with tears. And, we are coming to management, saying, 'Please let us help get this resolved for all of us,'" said Corliss King, second vice president of the Transport Workers Union Local 556, which represents Southwest's flight attendants. Among thousands of Southwest passengers desperate to get home, there are Southwest flight crews hoping and praying for the same thing. "As a flight attendant, I can tell you, I worked on Christmas and I worked the day after Christmas myself, and I saw firsthand our fatigued flight attendants are desperately trying to just get information and get home," King said. King said the union has heard stories from flight attendants across the country bearing the brunt of this travel disaster. A Southwest employee saw 11 News at BWI-Marshall and told them some of her coworkers hadn't had much sleep the past few days. "It breaks our hearts. I have dealt with flight attendants crying that they can't get home, they have to pick up their kids. One gentleman was in danger of losing custody of his child because he had to pick his child up by a certain time," King said. | RELATED: Flight canceled? Experts share some advice about what to do Southwest said last week's winter weather caused disruptions and ongoing challenges connecting flight crews to planes. "Flight attendants saw hold times of five hours, eight hours, 12 hours on hold to say, 'I'm sick and I won't be there.' Or, 'I'm in a place you don't even know I am. You think I'm in Houston, and I'm in Boise.' So, we can't even communicate with our leadership and with our systems to say, 'We're not where you think we are,'" King said. Video below (Wednesday morning): Woman's Boston-to-Baltimore flight canceled, so she took a train  Randy Barnes, president of Transport Worker Union Local 555, wants the public to know that customers on the ground aren't the only ones stressed, so are the ground crews, who are at their wit's end, too. "Sixteen to 18-hour days, day after day after day. And, you know, with limited rest. And, just imagine, some of our members weren't even able to get home in between their shifts because of the weather," Barnes said. Barnes' union represents the workers who load luggage, put snacks on planes and process cargo. He said the travel meltdown has taken a toll on those workers who spent extended time outside in subzero temperatures. "We're subjected to frostbite, we're subjected to other ailments. People, actually, that may have underlying health issues may actually suffer ... have an elevated risk of suffering any event from that. So there are a number of different things that were subjected to, from having to spend the extended time in the elements," Barnes said. | RELATED: Southwest cancels more flights, draws federal investigation King told 11 News the worst part is this catastrophe was predictable and preventable, saying the company's 1990s-era systems have needed upgrades for years and have caused crews to be stranded many times before. "Flight attendants are going through the same thing. We are on duty until we're released from duty," King said. "The problem is, you can't get someone to release you from duty because they're not answering the phones because their phone systems are overwhelmed. So, what happens is our flight attendants have been not only on duty 20 and 24 and 30 hours, some are sitting in a chair because they don't have a hotel, they don't have a way to get to a hotel." Unions for both flight attendants and ground crews said conditions over the past few days are inexcusable. "This is not the first time, the second time or the third time, and we've sounded the alarm time and time again that this is something that has to stop. And so, for us, we've seen this coming, and we've asked to be a part of the solution," King said. "If you ask the pilots, and you ask the flight attendants, have we seen this before, where flight attendants and pilots are sleeping on floors? We don't have hotels. We don't know when we're going home. I can assure you, they will tell you with a resounding, 'Yes, this has happened before.'" Barnes called the issues preventable. "I knew that there was going to be weather, we have it every year. And, there's a need to have a system where you cycle people in out of the cold so they're not subjected to frostbite, they're not subjected to other ailments and illnesses," Barnes said. "This is something that's long overdue. These systems needed to be upgraded years ago." Now, the company has no choice but to find a solution. King just hopes flight attendants' voices are heard. "We're willing to help with the solution, but we have to have a seat at the table," King said. Southwest CEO Bob Jordan tweeted a video on Tuesday apologizing to customers and crews. He promised to accommodate people who are displaced as soon as possible and to double down on plans to upgrade the company's systems. On the heels of wide-scale disruptions, we're working diligently to Safely recover our operation & accommodate displaced Customers & Crews. We know this is unacceptable & sincerely apologize. If your travel was impacted, explore self-service options here: https://t.co/B6L8HR9Yqc pic.twitter.com/mLWndYMned "I want everyone who is dealing with the problems we've been facing -- whether you haven't been able to get to where you need to go, or you're one of our heroic employees caught up in a massive effort to stabilize the airline -- to know that we're doing everything we can to return to a normal operation. And, please also hear that I'm truly sorry," Jordan said in the video. "Here's why this giant puzzle is taking us several days to solve: Southwest is the largest carrier in the country, not only because of our value and our values, but because we built our flight schedule around communities, not hubs." Barnes said he and other union representatives spoke Wednesday to members of Congress about what Southwest employees experienced. Video below (Wednesday morning): Family gets off cruise, learns flights were canceled 




 Southwest said all customers with trips planned between Dec. 24 and Jan. 2 can request a refund for their unused ticket to their original form of payment. That way, travelers can look for a ticket on another airline without being too out of pocket. If a traveler experienced a flight cancellation or significant delay between Dec. 24 and Jan. 2, 2023, Southwest said it will honor "reasonable requests for reimbursement for meals, hotel and alternate transportation." Southwest's website has a page on which customers can request for a refund and/or reimbursement for accommodations: Tap here. The issues prompted the U.S. Department of Transportation to investigate. In a tweet, USDOT said it "is concerned by Southwest's unacceptable rate of cancellations and delays and reports of lack of prompt customer service. The department will examine whether cancellations were controllable and if Southwest is complying with its customer service plan." | RELATED: DOT to probe Southwest cancellations that stranded flyers USDOT is concerned by Southwest’s unacceptable rate of cancellations and delays & reports of lack of prompt customer service. The Department will examine whether cancellations were controllable and if Southwest is complying with its customer service plan. Amid many flight cancellations and delays in the days after Christmas, some travelers are deciding to take matters into their own hands and drive home. The lines at the BWI-Marshall rental car facility barely moved all day Tuesday, 11 News observed. Some customers waited for hours for a vehicle -- and many of the rental companies were sold out. Full story here. Others spent Tuesday on the phone for hours talking to Southwest and rental car agencies. Victor Metta, of Columbia, Howard County, drove from South Carolina to get home after his flight was canceled. "We checked yesterday, everything was fine," Metta said. "I've had eight, nine hours to calm down, but it's been really frustrating, especially when we hit rush-hour traffic coming home and we only live 20 minutes away from the airport. It's just been a heck of a mess." The Better Business Bureau of Greater Maryland wants travelers to know that when flights are canceled by the airline, the customer is always entitled to a full refund. Customers should keep their receipts and records for expenses that result from a significantly delayed or canceled flight. Those receipts might be needed later to recover expenses. | RELATED: Better Business Bureau offers tips for delayed, canceled flights And, rules are different for flights that are canceled in another country. Those will be affected by the laws of that nation. So, check with the country's transportation agency while traveling internationally. Video below (Tuesday evening): Southwest customers recount troubles caused due to canceled flights Video below (Tuesday evening): Travelers upset over Southwest cancellations, delays finding bags Video below (Monday morning): Traveler from Florida stuck while en route to Boston Video below (Monday morning): Some travelers keep positivity amid long lines Video below (Monday evening): Southwest travelers frustrated by canceled flights, long waits 














BWI-Marshall travelers upset over Southwest flight cancellations, delays finding luggage
















Some rental car companies at BWI-Marshall run out of cars amid Southwest flight cancellations
















BWI-Marshall concourse crowded with post-Christmas travelers amid Southwest cancellations
















Flight canceled? Experts share some advice about what to do
















Southwest Airlines flight cancellations continue to snowball
















Southwest Airlines continues canceling flights as New Year holiday approaches
















Severe weather elsewhere disrupts dozens of flights at BWI-Marshall Airport
















BWI-Marshall Airport officials monitoring conditions at Midwest, Northeast hubs
















TSA, BWI-Marshall officials anticipate pre-pandemic holiday travel numbers










 Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.