e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Cal State San Bernardino’s theater arts department and the Ellen Weisser Endowed Theatre Showcase will present the puppet-filled musical “Anansi’s Carnival Adventure” by Alberto Justiniano, with music by Gary Rue, opening 8 p.m. April 28.In the play, the forest surrounding a small Caribbean town is suddenly sold off to developers, and it’s up to young Felipe, the Afro-Latina spider Anansi and a mix of wild animal friends to seek out Hurracan, the God of Wind, to cast the developers out and save their forest home.The production includes interpretive dance, elaborate masks and animated projections.“I was looking for a production that would bring families together to experience theater. This play offered characters from Taino Indian culture, African folk traditions and a setting in the forests of Puerto Rico,” Kathryn Ervin, Cal State professor of theater arts who is directing the show, said in a news release.“Also, the play is set around the Carnival Masquerade. Design faculty member Andre Harrington has been researching and studying carnival traditions in the Caribbean, England and the Americas for many years. This play offered an opportunity for masks and puppets and was a perfect contrast to the more realistic explorations of our productions this season,” Ervin said..Performances are in the Ronald E. Barnes Theatre on the Cal State campus, 5500 University Parkway, San Bernardino. After opening night, performances continue at 8 p.m. April 29 and May 4-6 and 2 p.m. April 30 and May 7.Tickets are $15 for adults ages 18-64, $12 for faculty, staff, seniors, military and first responders and $6 for students and those younger than 17, available at theatre.csusb.edu. Parking on campus is $6 Monday through Friday and $3 on weekends.For information, contact the box office at 909-537-5884 or by emailing theatrearts@csusb.edu.

 In the play, the forest surrounding a small Caribbean town is suddenly sold off to developers, and it’s up to young Felipe, the Afro-Latina spider Anansi and a mix of wild animal friends to seek out Hurracan, the God of Wind, to cast the developers out and save their forest home. The production includes interpretive dance, elaborate masks and animated projections. “I was looking for a production that would bring families together to experience theater. This play offered characters from Taino Indian culture, African folk traditions and a setting in the forests of Puerto Rico,” Kathryn Ervin, Cal State professor of theater arts who is directing the show, said in a news release. “Also, the play is set around the Carnival Masquerade. Design faculty member Andre Harrington has been researching and studying carnival traditions in the Caribbean, England and the Americas for many years. This play offered an opportunity for masks and puppets and was a perfect contrast to the more realistic explorations of our productions this season,” Ervin said. .Performances are in the Ronald E. Barnes Theatre on the Cal State campus, 5500 University Parkway, San Bernardino. After opening night, performances continue at 8 p.m. April 29 and May 4-6 and 2 p.m. April 30 and May 7. Tickets are $15 for adults ages 18-64, $12 for faculty, staff, seniors, military and first responders and $6 for students and those younger than 17, available at theatre.csusb.edu. Parking on campus is $6 Monday through Friday and $3 on weekends. For information, contact the box office at 909-537-5884 or by emailing theatrearts@csusb.edu. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group