Winnipeg
22° C, Cloudy Full Forecast © 2024 Winnipeg Free Press Quick Links Ways to support us Replica E-Edition Business Arts & Life Sports Opinion Media Homes Canstar Community news Betting Guides About Us This browser doesn't support push notifications at the moment. Check browsers features, update your browser or try to use one from the list of recommended to manage your notifications settings: If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings for this site. Just click button below and allow notifications for this site Note Safari 16.4+ working on iOS devices also need this site app to be installed at device's Home Screen for Push Notifications to work Notifications are blocked for this site. If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser's settings. Usually you'd need to click on site options icon to the left of address bar and change notifications preferences/permissions from there Urgent and important stories  Noteworthy news and features  Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions Advertisement Advertise with us 
Hey there, time traveller!
		This article was published 24/10/2023 (300 days ago), so information in it may no longer be current. 
	 A debut poetry collection by Winnipeg writer Hannah Green has landed on the list of finalists for the 2023 Governor General’s Literary Awards. Green’s Xanax Cowboy, published in April by House of Anansi Press, is among five books in contention for the prize for poetry. The finalists in fiction, non-fiction, poetry, children’s books, translated works and drama categories were announced on Wednesday morning; the winners will be announced Wednesday, Nov. 8. In the drama category, Misipawistik Cree Nation writer and actor Darla Contois from Grand Rapids is among the finalists for the top prize for her play The War Being Waged, published by J. Gordon Shillingford in October 2022. Another finalist with a Manitoba connection is Winnipeg-born, Ontario-raised and L.A.-based author and illustrator Jon Klassen, whose book The Skull is a finalist in the young people’s literature category for illustrated books. The winner in each category will receive $25,000; for a complete list of finalists see ggbooks.ca.     Advertisement Advertise With Us Advertisement Learn more about Free Press Advertising solutions  LOAD MORE