We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. "I know David has seen it because he left me a stunned video message." Good Omens creator Neil Gaiman has teased David Tennant's reaction to the second season of the fantasy-comedy series.  The Amazon Prime Video series is due to return to screens in July, with Gaiman revealing that both Tennant and co-star Michael Sheen had seen a cut of the six episodes.   “They’ve both been sent it,” he said on Tumblr. “I know David has seen it because he left me a stunned video message about how he only planned to watch the first episode and watched the whole thing and how wonderful it was.  Related: Good Omens' Michael Sheen announces new project with BBC “Michael has been directing his first TV series, and I don’t think he’s had a spare 5 hours to watch anything yet, although I know he wants to,” he continued, before adding that Jon Hamm had seen and “loved” the season.  The second season has expanded its cast with the acquisition of Tennant’s son, Ty, and father-in-law, Peter Davison. Ty, who also starred in House of the Dragon, will reportedly play a character called Ennon; Davison, best known for his role as the Fifth Doctor in Doctor Who, will play Alistair.  Related: Good Omens creator Neil Gaiman teases potential season 3 Whilst specific details for the upcoming episodes remain scarce, Amazon released a logline for the series which reads: “Having been on Earth since The Beginning and with the Apocalypse thwarted, Aziraphale and Crowley are getting back to easy living amongst mortals in London’s Soho when an unexpected messenger presents a surprising mystery.”  The six episodes, which will release simultaneously on July 28, will feature “storylines that go beyond the original source material to illuminate the uncanny friendship between Aziraphale, a fussy angel and rare book dealer, and the fast-living demon Crowley.” Good Omens season 1 is streaming now on Prime Video, where season 2 will premiere on July 28. Reporter, Digital Spy George is a freelance writer who specialises in Movies and TV. After graduating with a degree in Film Studies and Journalism from De Montfort University, in which he analysed the early works of Richard Linklater for his dissertation, he wrote for several websites for GRV Media.  His film tastes vary from blockbusters like Mission: Impossible and John Wick to international directors such as Paolo Sorrentino and Hirokazu Kore-eda, and has attended both the London and Berlin film festivals.
  First look at real-life drama A Very Royal Scandal Michael Sheen to make BBC game show appearance Good Omens season 3 gets big update BBC announces Michael Sheen special Good Omens season 3 confirmed as final season Good Omens makes change for possible final season How Good Omens swerved ignorant disability tropes Good Omens star Michael Sheen talks season 3 odds First look at Tennant, Atack in new Disney+ drama Good Omens' David Tennant on s2 favourite outfit Good Omens season 2 ending explained Why Beelzebub was replaced in Good Omens s2 DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.