e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Local business owners can gain new tools within the span of a lunch hour to increase knowledge, profit and sales via a new Anchor Bay Chamber of Commerce event series.Anchor Bay Chamber of Commerce President Lisa Thomas said the new event series Power Hour was developed as she was seeking to create a monthly lunch event for chamber members, and she is often approached about speaking opportunities by chamber members.“Each speaker is a member of the Anchor Bay Chamber and will speak about whatever they are an expert in. The topics will help members in business as well,” Thomas said.The chamber will kick off its member-to-member educational series Power Hour on Jan. 19 from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Little Camille’s By The Bay restaurant, located at 51083 Washington St. in New Baltimore. There is no cost to attend for chamber members, and lunch is available off of the restaurant menu at the attendee’s expense. Registration can be completed online at anchorbaychamber.com.“We would welcome not-yet chamber members to attend so they can see what we are about. Our goal is to help people succeed in business, whether they are members or not,” Thomas said.The first Power Hour on Jan. 19 will feature chamber member Gary Micu, the president of Micu Growth Consulting in St. Clair Shores, as the speaker. Micu Growth Consulting helps business owners and professionals to achieve growth goals, gain new clients and increase income.Micu is also a mortgage loan officer for Hill Mortgage in Grosse Pointe Farms. He has a residential mortgage loan originator license and is a certified public accountant. As a Grant Cardone licensee, he is authorized to deliver Grant Cardone’s training materials from Cardone Training Technologies Inc. As a 10X certified speaker, coach and mentor, he has completed a five-step certification program which culminated in a two-day certification at 10X headquarters in Florida.Micu’s topic on Jan. 19 will be 10X Sales Professional: How to Maximize Every Sales Opportunity. He said he plans to offer a complimentary strategy session to each chamber member in attendance, to help identify areas of opportunity for their specific business.

“Based on my and Grants’ experiences, any company under $3M in revenues faces three challenges that hinder earning more revenue: Sales, marketing and mindset,” Micu said. “In the presentation we’ll cover all three focusing primarily on sales.”Micu also said the 10X Sales Professional: Maximizing Every Sales Opportunity has content rooted in sales principles and delivers high-impact strategies.“Improving sales, marketing and mindset is the key to breaking through existing limitations and creation, 10X levels of massive success,” Micu said. “For example, using third-party data to validate claims effectively builds trust with potential customers in any industry. This seemingly simple act can sway a customer to do business with you, and you can be confident in your offers. Confidence is key to avoiding the holdbacks of self-doubt or confusion, which lead to inaction.”Regardless of the type of business an attendee may be in, they will learn to maximize sales opportunities in an understandable and actionable format, Micu said. Micu will present five major points in his lecture:• The idea that every action or inaction begins with attitude. “Attitude is the foundation upon which all else is built,” Micu said. “We will cover how to ensure your foundation is granite, not sand. Being in the ‘people’ business, agreement is essential to any deal, and we’ll cover methods of creating and maintaining agreement even when there may have been disagreement in the past.”• Give, give, give as part of service or information-based sales, in which the salesperson continually provides value to develop relationships and assist customers. “This giving is not confused with giving it all away for no compensation. We’ll cover more on this distinction during the presentation,” Micu said.• Price is a myth. “Yes, recognizing that price is not and never is the real issue at hand will free the mind and allow for better objection handling,” Micu said.• The buyer’s money.• Next steps, in which attendees have at least one item to implement immediately.“The information is timely with uncertainty in the economic forecast of our country, and the benefits can help fellow chamber members to maintain or grow through this time regardless of the economy,” Micu said.Although the program is available to those in any type of business, Micu said those in the realty or mortgage loan professions can obtain additional benefit from his lecture.“For me, knowing that this training is different from any other they’ve experienced in the past is the key,” Micu said. “Our focus on sales, marketing, and mindset come from the perspective of giving value. These methods have been proven to work in the real estate and mortgage industries time over time.”The learning component of role playing is also important, he said.“Role play situations in business before they occur with real prospects and clients is a level of preparation that only true professionals take on,” Micu said.He also said he is aware of challenges being faced in real estate and mortgage loan industries, but like any other industry, it all comes down to sales, marketing and mindset.“Many brokerages offer training in some capacity, but the quality and depth of information vary greatly. This presentation is one piece of a more extensive training and coaching system that provides the world’s best sales material in depth and by partnering with a licensee like myself locally,” Micu said.Nicole Tuttle is a freelance reporter for MediaNews Group. Anchor Bay Chamber of Commerce President Lisa Thomas said the new event series Power Hour was developed as she was seeking to create a monthly lunch event for chamber members, and she is often approached about speaking opportunities by chamber members. “Each speaker is a member of the Anchor Bay Chamber and will speak about whatever they are an expert in. The topics will help members in business as well,” Thomas said. The chamber will kick off its member-to-member educational series Power Hour on Jan. 19 from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Little Camille’s By The Bay restaurant, located at 51083 Washington St. in New Baltimore. There is no cost to attend for chamber members, and lunch is available off of the restaurant menu at the attendee’s expense. Registration can be completed online at anchorbaychamber.com. “We would welcome not-yet chamber members to attend so they can see what we are about. Our goal is to help people succeed in business, whether they are members or not,” Thomas said. The first Power Hour on Jan. 19 will feature chamber member Gary Micu, the president of Micu Growth Consulting in St. Clair Shores, as the speaker. Micu Growth Consulting helps business owners and professionals to achieve growth goals, gain new clients and increase income. Micu is also a mortgage loan officer for Hill Mortgage in Grosse Pointe Farms. He has a residential mortgage loan originator license and is a certified public accountant. As a Grant Cardone licensee, he is authorized to deliver Grant Cardone’s training materials from Cardone Training Technologies Inc. As a 10X certified speaker, coach and mentor, he has completed a five-step certification program which culminated in a two-day certification at 10X headquarters in Florida. Micu’s topic on Jan. 19 will be 10X Sales Professional: How to Maximize Every Sales Opportunity. He said he plans to offer a complimentary strategy session to each chamber member in attendance, to help identify areas of opportunity for their specific business. “Based on my and Grants’ experiences, any company under $3M in revenues faces three challenges that hinder earning more revenue: Sales, marketing and mindset,” Micu said. “In the presentation we’ll cover all three focusing primarily on sales.” Micu also said the 10X Sales Professional: Maximizing Every Sales Opportunity has content rooted in sales principles and delivers high-impact strategies. “Improving sales, marketing and mindset is the key to breaking through existing limitations and creation, 10X levels of massive success,” Micu said. “For example, using third-party data to validate claims effectively builds trust with potential customers in any industry. This seemingly simple act can sway a customer to do business with you, and you can be confident in your offers. Confidence is key to avoiding the holdbacks of self-doubt or confusion, which lead to inaction.” Regardless of the type of business an attendee may be in, they will learn to maximize sales opportunities in an understandable and actionable format, Micu said. Micu will present five major points in his lecture: • The idea that every action or inaction begins with attitude. “Attitude is the foundation upon which all else is built,” Micu said. “We will cover how to ensure your foundation is granite, not sand. Being in the ‘people’ business, agreement is essential to any deal, and we’ll cover methods of creating and maintaining agreement even when there may have been disagreement in the past.” • Give, give, give as part of service or information-based sales, in which the salesperson continually provides value to develop relationships and assist customers. “This giving is not confused with giving it all away for no compensation. We’ll cover more on this distinction during the presentation,” Micu said. • Price is a myth. “Yes, recognizing that price is not and never is the real issue at hand will free the mind and allow for better objection handling,” Micu said. • The buyer’s money. • Next steps, in which attendees have at least one item to implement immediately. “The information is timely with uncertainty in the economic forecast of our country, and the benefits can help fellow chamber members to maintain or grow through this time regardless of the economy,” Micu said. Although the program is available to those in any type of business, Micu said those in the realty or mortgage loan professions can obtain additional benefit from his lecture. “For me, knowing that this training is different from any other they’ve experienced in the past is the key,” Micu said. “Our focus on sales, marketing, and mindset come from the perspective of giving value. These methods have been proven to work in the real estate and mortgage industries time over time.” The learning component of role playing is also important, he said. “Role play situations in business before they occur with real prospects and clients is a level of preparation that only true professionals take on,” Micu said. He also said he is aware of challenges being faced in real estate and mortgage loan industries, but like any other industry, it all comes down to sales, marketing and mindset. “Many brokerages offer training in some capacity, but the quality and depth of information vary greatly. This presentation is one piece of a more extensive training and coaching system that provides the world’s best sales material in depth and by partnering with a licensee like myself locally,” Micu said. Nicole Tuttle is a freelance reporter for MediaNews Group. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group