Last week, Radio 95.1's Brother Wease moved to a later timeslot, and WBEE's Terry Clifford retired. Now another legendary local broadcaster is making a major change. In an announcement posted to Facebook on Monday, WROC-TV’s John Kucko insisted he is not retiring. But that same day during “News 8 at 4,” which he has co-anchored with his daughter Natalie Kucko since June 2022, he announced he is stepping down from the anchor desk. “I am leaving the studio work and anchoring here at my beloved Channel 8 at the end of this week after 32 years," he said. "Where has all that time gone?” Starting next week, Kucko, 58, will provide camera segments that will air on Tuesdays and Thursdays, showing “the positive and the interesting in our midst,” he said. “In the meantime, Natalie will hold down the fort,” he said. “It’s a full-circle moment, and one that I look forward to.” Kucko made his on-air debut on Channel 8 on Sept.  25, 1991, so his announcement was 32 years to the day. For most of his time at the station, he was sports director and weekday sports anchor, but in 2016, he left those roles to anchor the 4 o’clock report and pursue his digital photography and video business, John Kucko Digital, which to a large extent features images and footage of the natural world. On Monday’s broadcast, he talked about developing a love for visiting and shooting such places as Eternal Flame Falls, a little less than 7 miles miles from Highmark Stadium in Orchard Park, and Watkins Glen State Park, not far from where he covered NASCAR races in the early 1990s. The “transformation,” as he called it, was “totally unforeseen.” A SUNY Oswego graduate who grew up in the Binghamton area, Kucko started his sportscasting career here in 1989 at Channel 13. Then called WOKR-TV, it is where he met his future wife, a news reporter and anchor known to viewers as Charla Stevens. (Charla Kucko, mother to Natalie and her younger sister, Caroline, went on to a career in public relations.) John and Natalie Kucko (who also previously worked at Channel 13) are not the first father and daughter to co-host a news program in U.S. broadcast history, although they may be only the second. Bill and Patti Burns are credited as the originators when, in 1976, they were assigned to co-anchor the noon news on Pittsburgh station KDKA-TV. “It is kind of surreal,” Kucko told the Democrat and Chronicle last year, a few days in advance of the pair's first broadcast. Looking back on his long career Monday, he said: “No day was work when you enjoyed what you were doing so much, and I truly did. Anyone that knows me knows I’m all about passion, and I’m thankful to you out there for your support.” Through his video segments, “I tried to give you ideas on places to explore, destinations for a Sunday drive, and I’ll continue to do just that — just not working here in the building anymore,” he said, adding, “like I said, I’m not going too far.” Then, gesturing to video of himself from 1991, and with his daughter by his side, he said: “Folks, when you see the young people on TV in Rochester, that was me many years ago. Give them a chance because you’ve got to get your experience somewhere. I look like I was about 16 back in those days, right?” Said Natalie: “I think you held up pretty well.” More: After decades, Brother Wease is moving to later morning radio timeslot. More: Popular Rochester radio personality signing off the air for good. Reporter Marcia Greenwood covers general assignments. Send story tips to mgreenwo@rocheste.gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @MarciaGreenwood.