
	John Benoit of West Jeddore, N.S., says he has been beachcombing for over 50 years, but his most recent discovery is by far his most memorable. 
	“It’s one of the coolest things I've had the pleasure of finding,” said Benoit. “It’s not anything that I would have expected to find.” 
	Benoit was out for a walk on Cape St. Mary’s beach in western Nova Scotia when he noticed something unusual buried beneath the rocks. 
	“I kept digging and eventually I pulled out an anchor,” Benoit explained. 
	Standing almost four feet high and two feet across is what Benoit believes is a historic Killick anchor. The anchor is made entirely of wood and doesn’t contain any metal parts. 
	“It wasn’t far from the old wharf at Cape St. Mary, so it could have been buried there for hundreds of years,” said Benoit. “The possibility is definitely there.” 
	Roger Marsters, curator of marine history at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic, says Killick anchors were commonly used in our waters from the mid-18th century up until the Second World War. 
	“Killicks are a very old form of anchor,” said Marsters. “They are the characteristic of inshore fishing communities, certainly in North America, but also around the world. They are basically an elaboration of the simplest anchor which is essentially a rock on a string.” 
	While reports of Killicks being found are rare, Marsters says it is possible for them to be preserved under the right conditions. 
	“If they’re on a beach and get covered up by sand and mud and are protected from the air, then the wood parts can be preserved for a very long time,” said Marsters. 
	Marsters encourages anyone who makes a discovery on the shore or in the intertidal zone to contact the museum to help with verification. 
	Whether ancient or not, Benoit hopes to share it with others and believes it may be of interest to a local museum in the region. 
	“I really think that it has some importance to Nova Scotia, to Clare, Cape St. Mary and Acadian history,” said Benoit. 
	A find that’s making waves in the community while anchoring the past. The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  Party faithful are feeling invigorated by U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris's swift ascension to the top of the ticket as the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago on Monday following a tumultuous month for the party.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  Over time, Jon Kotwicki says he and his team are 'creating, you know, kind of our own little airport amusement park' in Wasilla, Alaska.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a ceasefire and hostage release in Gaza, and he called on Hamas to do the same, without saying whether concerns cited by the militant group had been addressed.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  A portion of Danforth Avenue that was closed in Toronto’s Greektown area after the driver of a custom Ford Model T crashed into a tree or a sign and was ejected from their vehicle has reopened.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  Local businesses and consumers are sounding the alarm as a nationwide rail strike looms.  Some quick-thinking Calgarians used a garden hose to put out a fire spreading up the side of their home on Monday afternoon.  Workers at Canada's two main railways could go on strike as early as Thursday, stranding $55 million worth of Alberta cargo per day.  Stony Plain Road will be closed until the end of November so Marigold can complete extra work on the Valley Line West LRT.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  CTV Montreal was forced to set up a makeshift studio on Nuns' Island after a water main break caused water to flood into our building.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  The City of Barrie wants to hear from residents and visitors about the possibility of adding another disc golf course.  In hopes that it will help their investigation, Greater Sudbury Police have released the name of a man who was found dead at Bell on July 31  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  A sentencing hearing began Monday in a Sudbury for Liam Stinson, who was found guilty in May of three counts of first-degree murder and arson causing bodily harm.  The community of Ayr, Ont. is starting to rebuild after a destructive EF1 tornado tore its way through the village over the weekend.  Waterloo Regional Police are investigating after a man was hurt in a Cambridge shooting.  The Dutchie’s Fresh Food Market on Gateway Park Drive in Kitchener appears to be closed.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  Michael Gordon Jackson is scheduled to present arguments for sentencing as part of his own defence.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In an announcement made Saturday by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Saskatoon’s Tracy Muggli has been appointed as an independent senator for Saskatchewan to fill a vacancy in the Senate.  Staffing issues have prompted yet another temporary closure of South Okanagan General Hospital's emergency department – this time from Monday afternoon into Tuesday morning.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 25-year-old man who was wanted Canada-wide for his alleged role in a shooting in Ontario has been arrested on Vancouver Island.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 25-year-old man who was wanted Canada-wide for his alleged role in a shooting in Ontario has been arrested on Vancouver Island.  A 29-year-old man is in police custody following an alleged assault on a bus driver near Victoria.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  When the McDougall Creek fire sparked on Aug. 15, 2023, no one could’ve imagined it would mushroom in size, consuming homes, infrastructure and livelihoods in the West Kelowna area with damage that will take years to address.  Thieves in B.C.'s Okanagan recently made off with an enclosed trailer containing a classic muscle car, local police say. 