NEW JERSEY — Treasury officials began a boots-on-the-ground approach to getting people signed up for the second year of ANCHOR, which gives New Jersey homeowners and renters up to $1,750 in property tax relief. An additional two million people could be eligible this year for ANCHOR, which stands for Affordable New Jersey Communities for Homeowners and Renters, officials said. Less than three months remain until the filing deadline.  The benefit is up to $1,500 for most New Jersey homeowners, and $1,750 for those 65 and older. For renters, the benefit is $450 for those 64 years old and younger, and $700 for those 65 and up. Requirements for the 2023 rebate are based on 2020 residency, income, and age.  About 300 people will be going door-to-door in communities across the Garden State through late December, according to the Department of the Treasury. Dressed in dark blue vests, they'll knock on doors to offer help with signing up, confirm residents' eligibility, or answer any questions about the ANCHOR program.  "Please take a moment and answer the questions when someone knocks on your door from the ANCHOR Property Tax Relief Outreach Team," the Treasurer's Office advised. "All answers are confidential and can help you access up to $1,750 in property tax relief." These team members began knocking on doors Tuesday, Sept. 26 and will canvass the state six days a week until Dec. 24. The deadline for new people to file this year is Dec. 29.  The Department of the Treasury said the team will have yellow lettering on their vests "identifying them as members of the ANCHOR Outreach Team", and yellow ID badges.  The ANCHOR Outreach Team will be active Monday through Saturday, between 1 p.m. and 7 p.m. Canvassers will also be at in-person community events in the coming months, Treasury officials said.  The team will leave door hangers with ANCHOR information if the homeowner or renter can't be reached.  “We are excited to have boots on the ground across New Jersey to help spread the word about the ANCHOR program,” said State Treasurer Elizabeth Maher Muoio in a news release. “About two million homeowners and renters may qualify for property tax relief, and we want to make sure every eligible resident applies for and receives their benefit.” Gov. Phil Murphy set aside more than $2 billion in the 2024 state budget for ANCHOR , which state officials said is meant to be an annual program if it is renewed for additional years in the state budget. ANCHOR replaced the state's long-standing Homestead relief program.  Here's what to know about this year's filing deadlines, eligibility, and when to expect a payment.  The New Jersey Department of the Treasury said that more than 1.3 million residents who got a rebate last year should have already gotten a letter, confirming they are eligible for this year’s ANCHOR program.  The residents who receive these letters will not have to re-file an application to get their tax relief money this year, officials said. The Division of Taxation began mailing benefit confirmation letters to these residents on Wednesday, said the Department of the Treasury.  If recipients have not moved or changed their bank information/other qualifying information since last year, their benefits should be automatically distributed by Nov. 1, said Treasury officials. The money will arrive via check or direct deposit, matching their choice from last year.  Recipients who need to change their mailing address, bank account number, or other qualifying information outlined in the letter must make updates in the online ANCHOR portal by Sept. 30. Then, benefits will be distributed on a rolling basis within 90 days of filing.  Those who qualify for ANCHOR should have received a green or purple filing packet in the mail by Sept. 1 with filing instructions. Applicants have until Dec. 29 to file an application, and benefits will be distributed on a rolling basis within 90 days of filing.  Here are the eligibility requirements for homeowners: Here are the eligibility requirements for renters: More information can be found at anchor.nj.gov. Related articles: Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.