E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		 The family of the 5-year-old Andover girl who was killed in a pedestrian crash last week has established a scholarship fund to honor their daughter who had a “spirit of boundless love and inclusion.”In the wake of Sidney Olson’s death, her family has created the “Sidney Mae Olson Rainbow Scholarship Fund” at Andover-based SHED Children’s Campus. Sidney was in the Springboard to Kindergarten program at SHED.All scholarship donations will be used to fund enrollment to the school’s “curiosity-based” education for those who can’t afford it, including pre-K, kindergarten, and school-aged programs.“We’re grateful for the outpouring of love and support for our family and friends after the tragic death of our bright-eyed, five-year-old daughter, Sidney,” her parents said in a statement. “Many in the community have asked how they can help, and this is exactly what our daughter would want you to do.”Last Tuesday evening, Sidney died following the tragic incident in Andover. She was struck by a tractor trailer truck at the intersection of Elm and Main streets, as the family was walking to art class.Sidney and one other family member traversed the crosswalk on Elm Street while the walk sign showed it was still safe to cross.Following the tragedy, the family members said they plan to keep this scholarship fund “going for years to come to keep her memory alive at the place that ignited her creative and caring spirit.”“She was known for her soft-spoken style of building bonds across groups, and memorably asked for her birthday party to be a rainbow theme because ‘it’s everyone’s favorite colors,’ ” her parents said.

“In her spirit of boundless love and inclusion, we hope this fund provides opportunity to children who might not otherwise have it — and that it adds rich diversity to the SHED community for years to come,” they added.Related Articles
Local News |  

			Tara Battaglino puts on show with 10 goals as Wellesley tops Andover		


Local News |  

			Andover finally breaks through, courts win over North Quincy		

The school is collecting donations for the Sidney Mae Olson Rainbow Scholarship Fund through a scholarship-specific site at www.shedchildrenscampus.org/give/.After the crash on Tuesday, the driver of the truck stopped and was cooperating with police.Several people who also were in the crosswalk at the time were not struck, but were taken to a local hospital as a precautionary measure.The Massachusetts State Police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction Section and the Essex County District Attorney’s Office State Police Detective Unit were investigating alongside detectives from the Andover Police Department. In the wake of Sidney Olson’s death, her family has created the “Sidney Mae Olson Rainbow Scholarship Fund” at Andover-based SHED Children’s Campus. Sidney was in the Springboard to Kindergarten program at SHED. All scholarship donations will be used to fund enrollment to the school’s “curiosity-based” education for those who can’t afford it, including pre-K, kindergarten, and school-aged programs. “We’re grateful for the outpouring of love and support for our family and friends after the tragic death of our bright-eyed, five-year-old daughter, Sidney,” her parents said in a statement. “Many in the community have asked how they can help, and this is exactly what our daughter would want you to do.” Last Tuesday evening, Sidney died following the tragic incident in Andover. She was struck by a tractor trailer truck at the intersection of Elm and Main streets, as the family was walking to art class. Sidney and one other family member traversed the crosswalk on Elm Street while the walk sign showed it was still safe to cross. Following the tragedy, the family members said they plan to keep this scholarship fund “going for years to come to keep her memory alive at the place that ignited her creative and caring spirit.” “She was known for her soft-spoken style of building bonds across groups, and memorably asked for her birthday party to be a rainbow theme because ‘it’s everyone’s favorite colors,’ ” her parents said. “In her spirit of boundless love and inclusion, we hope this fund provides opportunity to children who might not otherwise have it — and that it adds rich diversity to the SHED community for years to come,” they added. The school is collecting donations for the Sidney Mae Olson Rainbow Scholarship Fund through a scholarship-specific site at www.shedchildrenscampus.org/give/. After the crash on Tuesday, the driver of the truck stopped and was cooperating with police. Several people who also were in the crosswalk at the time were not struck, but were taken to a local hospital as a precautionary measure. The Massachusetts State Police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction Section and the Essex County District Attorney’s Office State Police Detective Unit were investigating alongside detectives from the Andover Police Department. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group