Jan. 26—ANDOVER — The town is in the process of getting approvals for the construction of a new community center with an emphasis on senior recreation, but concerns have risen from the Board of Education that the town would occupy property that had been appropriated for use by Andover Elementary School. The municipal property where the community center would be built sits behind Town Hall and the elementary school with access to the community center through the parking lot connecting both buildings, Town Administrator Eric Anderson said. In a letter dated Nov. 14 from Jessica R. Smith of Shipman Law in Stamford, who was hired to represent Andover Schools, to Dennis O'Brien, the Andover town attorney, Smith said the school board "has the clear statutory authority to maintain control over school property." Additional concerns in the letter include "serious risks of liability" to both the board and the town if "proper care is not taken to safeguard the health and safety of Andover's schoolchildren and to comply with all laws, rules, and regulations applicable to property use for school purposes." Smith further says that the Board of Education stands ready to support construction of the community center but that the town needs to involve the board in all planning moving forward. Anderson said he believes that the board's involvement is unwarranted, but also agreed with the board that the town should respect the school board's right to operate the property as it sees fit. "It's a town property and we're doing construction on the town property, not a property under control of the school board," he said. "Though they've requested a much higher of involvement in the process, we don't really think it's warranted. "It's their land, they control everything that happens on that land," he said. "We are intending to build the community center on land that is part of the town's portion, not the school's portion." The school board doesn't believe him, he said, and has disputed where the community center will be placed. Anderson said that in order to resolve the dispute, the town has conducted a re-survey of all the parcels that make up the 90 acres of municipal property that the Town Hall and the school reside on, which also includes the fire department next door to Town Hall. "We've done that and the next meeting, we're going to share the maps and we're going to discuss where exactly on the town property we're going to build the community center and hopefully that will alleviate a lot of the concerns that the school has," he said. "We don't want to infringe on their property and if we do infringe, we want to make sure that we have legal and binding easements in place to regulate that interaction and we're happy to do that." He said that the town has retained a civil engineer to give the town a site plan for construction and is inviting the school board to bring its own engineer to the table so it can reach an agreement. Additional concerns by the school board, according to Smith's letter, include the need of an appropriate environmental assessment of the construction site to assess possible contamination and related construction issues, debris and soil management, location of the septic system to avoid contamination of the school's water, timing on construction to avoid excessive noise during school hours, and background checks of construction workers in proximity of the children. Anderson said the timing of those concerns is too early. "I agree that, especially in this era of increased awareness of school shootings and security at elementary schools, it's a concern on everybody's part," he said. "That's the concern that derailed the town's original proposal of relocating the community center in an unused wing of the school. A large fraction of the parents had safety concerns about mixing the two uses within the same physical building. We're cognizant of that." Before those issues can be addressed, he said, the town still needs approval from the Planning and Zoning Commission to even go forward with the project. "We still have to go back to the zoning commission for the zoning permit," he said. "We still have to get a final design. Best-case scenario we can have that in three months, but that is really optimistic. My guess is we're going to break ground in the really late spring or early summer." The next scheduled PZC meeting is 7 p.m. Feb. 27. For coverage of local restaurants, cultural events, music, and an extensive range of Connecticut theater reviews, follow Tim Leininger on Twitter: @Tim_E_Leininger, Facebook: Tim Leininger's Journal Inquirer News page, and Instagram: @One_Mans_Opinion77. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.