Cloudy. High 68F. Winds NNW at 10 to 20 mph..
                                 Partly cloudy skies. Low 56F. Winds N at 10 to 20 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 7:12 am      ANDOVER — A new canine officer is providing unique skills to the Andover Police Department and showing his cuddly side to the community as well. XERO recently completed six weeks of training with Andover Police Officer Bob Johnson in Wapokoneta. Johnson said he has always wanted to be a canine handler and has been working on the project for five years. Andover Police Chief Chris Baker came on board earlier this year when it was clear the money needed to purchase, train and feed the dog had been donated by area businesses, organizations and individuals. Johnson said he has been on the force since 2013 and a full-time offier since 2016. The training focused on teaching the dog skills needed for searching narcotics suspects, finding contraband and some tracking techniques as well. The dog is not an attack dog, but an extra resource in searching for narcotics as well as interacting positively with the community. Johnson said the training was not an easy process. “It was a long six weeks. It was frustrating at times and fulfilling at times,” he said. The dog came on strong toward the end of the training and he began taking shifts with Johnson last week. “It has been interesting. He has been excited to come to work. ... I have got him out to let the kids see him,” he said. “We got overwhelming public support,” Baker said of the $18,000 raised. He said some of the larger donations included $7,500 from AKC Reunite, $5,000 from the Andover Fraternal Order of Eagles and the Laker Ruritan Club and $2,800 from the Wall Street Inn in Jefferson. “Our community already likes the police and I think the dog may bring them closer,” Johnson said. “[XERO] has a really good disposition,” Baker said. He said a gentle dog was a goal for the new officer but the dog could be trained for a more aggressive style if needed.   Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. 
                            Sign up now to get our FREE breaking news coverage delivered right to your inbox.
                         First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: