Billionaire tech investor Marc Andreessen recently appeared on the Lex Fridman podcast. The pair discussed a wide range of topics including the rise of AI and the history of Silicon Valley. Andreessen gave a set of traits that he thinks the best founders in Silicon Valley share. Billionaire tech investor Marc Andreessen says the best startup founders in Silicon Valley share a few important traits. In a new episode of the Lex Fridman podcast posted last week, Andreessen and Fridman spoke on a wide range of topics that Andreessen has spoken about in the past, including the benefits and risks of artificial intelligence, political and military history, and Andreessen's career in Silicon Valley as a founder and investor. Andreessen has been giving a series of interviews after publishing an essay earlier this month on why he believes AI will be a net benefit for the world, despite the concern other tech executives have expressed. Toward the end of the podcast, Fridman asked the Mosaic and Netscape co-founder and current general partner at Andreessen Horowitz what advice he would give young startup founders in Silicon Valley, and what he sees as common traits of the most successful founders. "The great thing about the really great founders is they don't take any advice," Andreessen said. "So if you find yourself listening to advice, maybe you shouldn't do it." Overall, he said he believes the best founders are "some combination" of super-smart, super-energetic, and super-courageous. "The first two are traits, and the third one is a choice, I think," he continued. "Courage is a choice. Well, because courage is a question of pain tolerance, right? So how many times are you willing to get punched in the face before you quit?" Startup founders face an immense amount of rejection, Andreessen said, from potential employees not taking the chance to work for you, to investors not agreeing with your idea. The best founders are capable of dealing with lots of rejection, he said. "So you have to pretend that you're having a great time when you're dying inside, right? You're just in misery," he continued. He said startup founders could probably, on average, be more financially successful if they just got a "real job" in a big company. "But some people just have an irrational need to do something new and build something for themselves," he said. "And some people just can't tolerate having bosses." The best founders are also often the ones with an idea for a product that happen to start a company, Andreessen said, rather than someone who just wants to start their own company and struggles to come up with an idea. In the past, he has also advised that young people make their passion into a hobby, and focus on making money by finding a way to contribute to the most active areas in the economy. He has also cautioned against young people working remotely, warning that it could lead to them becoming "cut off from everything." Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.