The 29-year-old chief executive of Hopin, Johnny Boufarhat, was fond of the acronym "LFG." "We had the internal joke that that was his strategy – LFG – let's fucking go," one former staffer who spoke to Insider on condition of anonymity said. Boufarhat lived up to his mantra.  Where Zoom became the go-to for virtual meetings and Peloton became the at-home exercise favorite, Hopin enabled conferences to continue amid widespread travel restrictions by bringing them online. The firm, only founded in 2019, raised more than $1 billion in venture capital funding over 18 months. At one point, the firm was valued at $7.75 billion, more than 77 times its annual recurring revenue (ARR). By comparison, Zoom was valued at about 30 times its ARR at the time. "You're in a very well-funded company that's getting more and more financing and more and more traction while the world is ending, which is something I think people forget," the ex-Hopin staffer said. "While the rest of the world was people losing their jobs, and dying, we were in a rocket ship." The rocket fuel was provided by big-name investors such as Tiger Global, Andreessen Horowitz, and General Catalyst, who threw cash at the firm, and corporate clients such as  Twitch, Slack, and UPS. By early 2022, Hopin had grown its staff to more than 1,110 people to handle its newfound demand, per the Information. But as vaccinations arrived and the travel restrictions eased, demand for Hopin's platform waned. After three waves of layoffs that halved headcount, the startup is set to sell the flagship virtual-events business that captured investor attention in the first place to cloud conference company RingCentral for just $50 million. Boufarhat said he plans to step down from his role. Hopin's giddy valuation raised eyebrows even at the firm's peak, and former staffers, early backers, and peer investors say this was driven by a mix of pandemic panic and easy availability of cash. The firm, they say, will likely be better off now it has shed staff and refocused on the more profitable parts of its business. The UK startup sector is small and close-knit, and founders, employees, and investors are generally reluctant to openly criticize their peers for fear of jeopardizing investment or employment opportunities. Many of those around Hopin spoke only on condition of anonymity. "The pandemic was an extraordinary time to be investing," one London-based tech investor who had not backed Hopin said. "So many companies had revenues in lift-off mode, but it was difficult to tell what was a COVID-19 bump versus what was the new normal. "As always in VC, there's so much FOMO and you can't afford to miss the next breakout company." A spokesperson for Hopin told Insider the decision to step down as CEO was a decision "made by Johnny" and said that he would continue to be involved as a member of the board. 
                                Related stories
                               "Where things went wrong was behavior changed, consumer behavior changed in a way that the company didn't predict," a second former employee said. Born in Australia to Lebanese parents, Boufarhat eventually wound up in the UK as a student at the University of Manchester following stints growing up in the US, Dubai, and Papua New Guinea. In 2015, Boufarhat was diagnosed with an auto-immune disease that meant he was often home-bound and socially restricted as a young man long before the COVID-19 pandemic. It gave him ample time to build virtual products. His first known ventures included a social app called Universe, a blogging platform called Readery, and an online dating platform called Quiin, the code from which ultimately made it into the first iteration of Hopin, the Financial Times reported. Boufarhat always had an eye for a headline. As the founder tells it, even before Hopin raised its first seed funding: "I was feeling optimistic enough to think, 'If we aren't the fastest-growing startup in the world next year, I shouldn't be CEO.'" Venture capitalists, who are trained to look for startups that have the potential to bring them outsized returns, tend to like this kind of bullishness. Several waxed lyrical about what they described as his integrity and transparency during conversations with Insider, pointing to his handing stock options to employees affected by previous rounds of layoffs. Armed with more than $1 billion in investor cash, Boufarhat opted to make acquisitions. More unusually, he also pocketed an estimated $195 million from the company via secondary share sales to Hopin's external investors, the Financial Times reported, and moved his tax residency to Switzerland. Founders taking capital out of their companies — known as taking money off the table — to keep themselves liquid is not unusual, but the scale of Boufarhat's maneuver provoked chatter and reluctant admiration from other founders. One, who asked to remain anonymous discussing a peer, joked he had "made out like an absolute bandit." "He just acted in his own interest at the time, I mean whatever seemed right to him," the second former Hopin employee said. "The VCs were dumb enough to do it." In January 2021, Hopin acquired Streamyard for $250 million in cash and stock. Streamyard's pitch was to make it easier for content creators to create high-quality live streams, and the acquisition enabled Hopin to offer its customers a suite of live-streaming studio tools. Also on the acquisition slate: Event networking app Topi, video-collaboration business Jamm, video-hosting service Streamable, event-marketing company Attendify, and event-management platform Boomset (which Hopin recently shuttered) over the course of 2021. One remaining question as Hopin's fortunes have shaken out is whether some of these acquisitions were better businesses than Hopin itself. "Streamyard is the most important part of the whole thing," the first former employee said. Two sources familiar with Hopin added that Streamyard has made up the bulk of the company's revenues for years, perhaps more than half. A Hopin spokesperson said that Streamyard "had always been core and central" to the company's revenue and strategic value. In August 2021, when Hopin had just closed a $450 million round, the company had over 100,000 organizations using its platform. At the time, Hopin's core business was hosting around 15,000 events a month. Less than a year later, that number slumped to just 158. Streamyard was not included in the sale to RingCentral and instead will form part of the remaining company alongside Streamable, and a new community product known as Superwave. The revamped Hopin will be headed up by Badri Rajasekar, its current chief technology and product officer who joined amid the acquisition spree. Despite the acquisitions and Boufarhat taking cash off the table, most of the investor cash remains unspent, estimated between $400 million and $900 million, according to the early backer. Hopin did not respond to Insider's request for further details on its plans to redistribute this cash. Handing cash back is unusual but can allow a business to focus on profitability and avoid exhausting pivots. Axios reported that Hopin's Series B investors, who include IVP, Tiger, and Altimeter, can expect to recoup around half of their investment into Hopin. Some cash will remain on Hopin's balance sheet as a buffer. "You don't need a tonne of working capital to run a profitable standalone steady low-growth business," the early investor said. The company is now valued at around $400 million, a 95% decline from its peak valuation, Axios reported. RingCentral's acquisition of Hopin's core business cost $50 million, according to a company filing. The filing states the deal terms as $15 million upfront with the remaining $35 million tied to performance goals. The hyped valuation was, it turns out, hype. "You only need one term sheet," the early investor said. "Microsoft needs a thousand market participants to agree that it's worth $1 trillion. It only takes one person to set the price of a private company."  Hopin isn't alone here. Share prices in hot pandemic stocks such as Zoom and Peloton have collapsed from their highs of late 2020. Private tech companies that had boomed during the pandemic years, such as buy-now, pay-later firm Klarna, also experienced valuation cuts through 2022. For Boufarhat and the rest of the Hopin team, what remains is a sustainable, albeit smaller, business. "The company tried to do too many things, it was a bit confused," the second former staffer said. "I can't see a path for them to being a very large, growing, successful company. They will end up up being a reasonably good small- to mid-sized tech company and that's pretty much it." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to