We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Hong Kong-based blockchain gaming developer and non-fungible token investor, Animoca Brands, has announced plans to support Yuga Labs in developing its highly anticipated new metaverse and NFT game Otherside: Legends of the Mara. In an April 3 blog post, the NFT gaming investor confirmed supporting Yuga Labs to develop its much anticipated NFT collection-based 2D strategy metaverse game, Legends of the Mara. The digital asset firm Yuga Labs announced plans to launch the new metaverse game last week. …and now the story continues…! Animoca Brands is proud to support @yugalabs in the development of Legends of the Mara, the first standalone gaming experience powered by @apecoin. We can't wait to see how Blue's adventure unfolds 👀#OthersideLOTM #metaverse https://t.co/1s3q6FfFMX — Animoca Brands (@animocabrands) April 3, 2023  Founded in 2014, Animoca Brands is a video game software company and ventures capital. The firm is best known for backing one of the most successful metaverse projects, such as The Sandbox, Blowfish Studios, Quidd, GAMEE, nWay, Pixowl, Forj, Lympo, Grease Monkey Game, Eden Games, and more. On the other hand, Yuga Labs is another gaming giant and NFT investment firm. The digital asset firm is the parent to one of the most successful NFT projects, including Bored Ape Yacht Club, Mutant Ape Yacht club, Bored Ape Kennel Club, TwelveFold, Otherdeed for Otherside, and more. The two gaming giants, Animoca Brands, and Yuga Labs, will work together to develop Legends of the Mara, a 2D standalone experience powered by ApeCoin. The new game will feature Otherside Koda NFT collection and introduce a new collection called Mara, which can evolve into Kodamara. In order to play the new game, Yuga Labs will begin by gifting Otherdeed NFT collection holders with a Vessel. Each claimed Vessel would be sent to the Otherdeed-holding wallet as a separate ERC-721 token with a new smart contract NFT collection. Each Vessel will feature several functions, including assigned random Hunting, Farming, or Enchanting. Once Mara has emerged from their Vessels as a new NFT collection, users can purchase and sell them through various trading platforms. According to the site publication, Otherdeed NFT collection holders will start claiming their new Vessels this week. The metaverse game will launch earlier next month after the end of the recently launched “The 2nd Trip of the Otherside.” Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Dominic is a Nairobi, Kenya based crypto news writer enthusiastic about NFTs, DeFi, GameFi, the Metaverse and blockchain tech in general, with five years experience in the field, alongside his own personal trading and investing journey. Dominic holds a Bachelor's degree in Journalism, Media and Mass Communication Studies and has been blogging and producing educational materials for retail investors in… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Ethereum’s ...