Dubai, UAE, Sep 19, 2023, ZEX PR WIRE, The event, known as a Crypto Whales Meeting Point, brings together over 7,000 visitors from 120 countries on October 24-25. Global crypto investors, funds, government officials, miners, developers and promising startups come together in Dubai to shape the future of cryptocurrencies and Web3 at the 11th Blockchain Life Forum Get details and buy a ticket. More than 80 world-known speakers from the innovative companies are going to share their analytics and world-changing ideas. Among them: H.E. Justin Sun (Founder of TRON) Yat Siu (Co-Founder and Executive Chairman of Animoca Brands) Eowyn Chen (CEO of Trust Wallet) Xinxi Wang (Co-Founder of Litecoin Foundation) Nischal Shetty (CEO of Shardeum, CEO of WazirX) Alexander Chehade (General Manager in Binance) Fred Thiel (CEO of Marathon Digital Holdings) Sergei Khitrov (Founder of Jets.Capital and Listing.Help) Tone Vays (Trader, Economic Trends Expert and Analyst, ex-VP at JP Morgan Chase) What else to expect: Over 150 leading companies at the expo (top exchanges, mining companies, startups and etc) Startup Pitch with Tier-1 funds as jury and attendees in conference hall Unique online app for finding contacts and vacancies in the crypto industry – Networking 2.0. Quick acquaintances in the Speed Networking area and many other formats for new connections Legendary AfterParty in one of the best world clubs One of the largest independent awards – Blockchain Life Awards 2023 A huge number of side events around the dates of the event
 Influential figures such as heads of global funds, government officials, investors, business owners and promising startups come together in Dubai to shape the future of cryptocurrencies at the 11th International Blockchain Life Forum on October 24-25 in Dubai, Festival Arena. The event stays as a meeting point for Crypto Whales, attracting over 7,000 visitors from 120 countries. Attendees can look forward to informative sessions led by leaders in the crypto industry, revealing insider information on upcoming bullrun trends and other topics. Over 80 speakers are going to share their analytics and world-changing ideas. Why dubai Almost 0% taxes for business
Legislative framework suitable for crypto industry
Availability of capital and venture capital
Government support for businesses of any size: from small startups to large corporations
0% personal income tax
A lot of solar energy for mining
A large number of accelerators and incubators for new projects.
Political stability and favorable business environment
Large cryptocommunity where everyone actively supports each other Top world speakers will reveal: How to earn money on cryptocurrencies in 2023? What are metaverses and how they will change our future? How to start mining and maximize your profit? How to find a new unicorn among hundreds of startups and invest in it safely? How DeFi will reshape global economy? How to make money in NFT? Which market trends will bring profit in 2023-2024?
and many other About One of the world’s most significant crypto and web3 events in 2023 Blockchain Life 2023 is the main industry event in Europe. For 6 years the forum gathers 5000+ participants in the blockchain capitals of the planet (Singapore, Moscow) and confirms its status as one of the most important events in the world. The forum brings together global industry leaders and those who are just beginning their way in crypto industry. It is a place of thousands of contracts that influenced international industry development. The Forum is traditionally attended by key industry players, government representatives, heads of international companies and funds, investors, promising startup teams, and beginners. This time Blockchain Life gathers over 7000 premium attendees from 120 countries. Hurry up and buy your ticket now here. If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... The rise of child anxiety Based on recent academic sources, child anxiety appears to... A U.S. judge temporarily halted the introduction of a new sports streaming service, supported... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.