Tapestry Inc. has named Alan Lau to the board of directors, bringing the total number of board members to 11. Lau became chief business officer for Animoca Brands last July, a gaming company where he oversees and provides support to the company’s more than 340 portfolio companies and leads M&A and business development. Earlier, he was chairman and chief executive officer of Tencent WeSure, a fintech company that he cofounded to offer internet insurance to WeChat users. Before that, he was Asia head for McKinsey Digital, supporting both Big Tech companies and sector incumbents to execute their digital strategies. More from WWD 2020 Holiday Gift Ideas: Google's Top Searched Beauty, Home and Tech Gifts Inside the Jacquard by Google Exhibit in Paris Inside Elon Musk's New Tunnel in California Before entering the tech space, Lau worked in corporate finance, first at Citibank and then at McKinsey & Co., where he was the Greater China head for the corporate finance practice, in charge of M&A and deal structuring support. He also sits on multiple museum boards, including as the vice chair of M+ in Hong Kong and co-chair of the Asia committee at both Tate and The Guggenheim. “We are extremely pleased that Alan Lau has agreed to join our board,” said Joanne Crevoiserat, chief executive officer of Tapestry. “As we continue to further refine our digital strategy across our portfolio of brands, Alan’s broad experience in engaging consumers across digital channels, leveraging technology and data analytics, as well as deep knowledge of the important China market, will be invaluable assets.” Lau said, “I am excited to be joining the board of directors of Tapestry, a truly innovative, brand-led company. I look forward to supporting the company and helping to inform both its digital strategies and global development plans as it continues to drive long-term sustainable growth.” Best of WWD Kim Kardashian's Best Fashion Moments Through the Years What to Know About the Viral Hermès Avalon Throw Blanket in 'Harry & Meghan' Netflix Documentary Trailer A Closer Look at Florence Pugh’s Style Evolution: From Red Carpets to Front Rows  Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.