Written by Gideon Ng Published on 31 Oct 2023  5 mins read Honasa Consumer, the parent company of skin and personal care brand Mamaearth, has raised approximately USD 92 million in an anchor round before its IPO commences on October 31, later today. In an official filing made late Monday, the company disclosed that a group of over three dozen asset management firms, including the likes of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Fidelity, Norges Bank, Invesco, Goldman Sachs, CDPQ, White Oak, Franklin Templeton, Kotak, DSP, Carmignac Gestion, Loomis Sayles, Matthews, Pictet, and Hornbill, participated in this funding round by acquiring shares through the anchor book. These investors, a group that notably encompassed several Indian mutual funds, collectively subscribed to nearly half of the targeted USD 204.3 million that Mamaearth is aiming to raise through its public market debut. Mamaearth, which boasts notable backers such as Peak XV Partners and Sofina, is poised to launch its IPO with shares priced within the range of USD 3.7–3.9. —TechCrunch Vircle, a Malaysian neobank tailored for children, has secured an undisclosed amount of seed funding from Kumpalan Modal Perdana (KMP) and Gobi Partners. The latter invested in Vircle through its Gobi Dana Impak Ventures (GDIV) fund, which is backed by Khazanah Nasional Berhad, Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund. “In a region where 160 million children lack access to banking services, Vircle emerges as a beacon of hope, introducing a safe passage into the cashless world. With an emphasis on cultivating crucial money management skills, Vircle addresses a significant gap in both the educational system and households across Southeast Asia,” said Thomas Tsao, co-founder and chairperson of Gobi Partners. The investment arm of the Neom future city project in Saudi Arabia has proposed investing USD 50 million in Animoca Brands. This investment rides on the confirmation of a strategic partnership between both entities to drive the development of Web3 initiatives according to the Saudi Vision 2030. The investment will be allocated in two parts: USD 25 million will be allocated through convertible notes at a conversion cap price of AUD 4.5 (USD 2.8) per share, while the other USD 25 million will be used to acquire shares of Animoca Brands from the secondary market. A memorandum of understanding has been jointly announced to formalize this partnership. The Singapore-based renewable energy certifier has secured USD 10 million in a Series A funding round led by Aramco Ventures, the venture arm of Saudi Arabian state-owned oil company Aramco. The round also saw the participation of undisclosed investors from the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Japan. Redex will utilize the capital to broaden its operations outside of Asia and digitize the issuance and trading of renewable energy certificates, making the process more efficient.  RELATED ARTICLENewsDeals in brief: J&T Express makes HKEX debut, Gentari and GIC invest in AM Green Ammonia Holdings, multiple China and India deals, and moreWritten by Gideon Ng Written by Gideon Ng If there are any news or updates you’d like us to feature, get in touch with us at: [email protected]. Auto loading next article... Subscribe to our weekly newsletters  KrASIA A digital media company reporting on the most promising technology-driven trends and businesses in the Asia Pacific.