Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Metaverse Stories Saturday March 18, 2023, 2 min Read Saudi Arabia-based non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace ﻿Nuqtah﻿ has raised an undisclosed seed round led by Animoca Brands. The round also saw participation from Polygon and regional investors.  The fresh capital will be utilised in scaling up Nuqtah’s business over the coming 12 months. The areas of focus will comprise product development, talent acquisition, marketing, and other operations.  Nuqtah is the first NFT marketplace in Saudi Arabia and also the first to be licensed by the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and the Ministry of Investment, read a press statement shared by Wamda.  Dubai SME, India Accelerator launch iAccel Gulf Business Incubator in Dubai Founded by Salwa Radwi in 2021, the marketplace facilitates individuals and businesses to create, deploy as well as monetise NFT collections. Its aim is to support creators, users, and businesses to explore the opportunities offered by the Web3 space in Saudi Arabia and the wider Middle East. Radwi is one of the first women founders and CEOs in the country's NFT landscape.   “We will continue to expand our operational presence and collaborate with local strategic partners looking to adopt Web3,” said Yat Siu, Executive Chairman and Co-founder of Animoca Brands.   At present, Animoca Brands boasts a growing portfolio of over 380 Web3 investments. These include Harmony, Colossal, Alien Worlds, Axie Infinity, Star Atlas, OpenSea, Yield Guild Games, and Dapper Labs (NBA Top Shot), among others.  For any press related queries or to share your press releases, write to us at [email protected].   Edited by Kanishk Singh web3 NFT marketplace Saudi Arabia Blockchain seed funding Just In 1 In Depth [Product Roadmap] How BharatPe built a robust, easy-to-use tech product for 50 million SMEs 2 AI Gen How Nike Outsmarted Adidas at the Olympics Without Sponsorship 3 News Antfin Singapore pares stake in foodtech co Zomato 4 News Arka Investment Advisory makes final closing of maiden fund 5 AI Gen Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs!