This fall, Barcelona is gearing up for a spectacular showcase as it prepares to usher in the continent’s flagship blockchain event from October 24th to 27th. The European Blockchain Convention, now in its ninth iteration (EBC9), promises to be a standout chapter in its history, especially for 2023. Since its inception in 2018, the convention’s momentum has been unstoppable, and this year’s edition is set to magnetize a whopping 5,000 participants. As October winds down, Barcelona won’t just be about the blockchain. The city also braces for the legendary El Clásico soccer match, where Barcelona and Real Madrid will lock horns. EBC9 is pulling out all the stops with a guest list that reads like a who’s who of the industry. Over 300 luminaries from the corridors of Nansen, Fidelity, Fabric Ventures, and Animoca Brands, will grace the event. But the blockchain world isn’t the only one taking the stage; mainstream juggernauts like Banco Santander and Volkswagen are also stepping into the spotlight. And let’s remember the influential personas from Binance Labs and Galaxy Digital who are set to make their mark. Victoria Gago, one of the masterminds behind EBC, shared her excitement, “We have seen a significant increase in registrations and interest from exhibitors and sponsors alike after the overwhelmingly positive feedback we got from our previous edition. Building on that momentum, we are moving EBC9 to Fira Barcelona, a much larger venue. As the largest convention centre in Spain, it offers ample space for exhibitors, a greater variety of content, and more engaging experiences.” Echoing her sentiments, Daniel Salmeron added, “We are extremely excited to bring together the worlds of TradFi, digital assets, and web3… The participation of many traditional banks and financial institutions demonstrates their commitment and optimism about the future of crypto and digital assets.” EBC9’s itinerary is an array of topics: from the intricacies of regulations, the rise of CBDCs, and privacy-centric debates to the mainstreaming of cryptocurrencies, the DeFi wave, eco-friendly blockchain practices, token-driven innovations, and the burgeoning role of AI. Beyond the talks and panels, attendees can immerse themselves in a vast 3,000 sqm exhibition zone, engage in candid AMA sessions, and network in specialized lounges. EBC9’s highlights include an investor-centric gathering, a curated art display, and the much-anticipated EBC Start-up recognition event. A special mention goes to the Hackathon, poised to be a tech fest with a dynamic mix of over 200 enthusiasts, a robust mentorship panel, and around 20 teams prepped for a 48-hour coding spree. For those keen on delving deeper into EBC9’s offerings, from participation details to speaker insights, visiting their website at www.eblockchainconvention.com is a must.   Unit No: BA857 DMCC Business Centre Level No 1 Jewellery & Gemplex 3 Dubai, United Arab Emirates. International House, 10 Admirals Way, London, England, E14 9XL. © 2024 FFEEDS DMCC. All Rights Reserved.
