Advertisement Advertisement Anichess, a division of Animoca Brands, announced in a statement that the company had successfully closed the oversubscribed seed round, which had raised around $1.5 million.  The Operating Group and GameFi Ventures were among the investors. To name a few, investment firms include Koda Capital, Bing Ventures, Asymmetry Capital, and others. Anichess intends to use this funding to continue developing its decentralized chess game, increase the number of employees, and set aside a sizable sum for the expansion of its community. Anichess was created by Animoca Brands, the Play Magnus Group (PMG), and the Champions Chess Tour as a decentralized chess-themed game. It is the priority for Anichess to maintain the basic structure of the game and keep it free-to-play. The rules that basically govern the game will be left intact. However, there will be the addition of various strategies related to defense as well as attacking methods that will be introduced. Further efforts will be put in to give the game a kind of esports touch in order to magnify the total experience for the players.  Chess.com had duly acquired PMG in the month of December 2022 and successfully managed to further the expansion of the Champions Chess Tour. Anichess will be introduced to a whole lot of chess enthusiasts from around the globe and will help build the world chess community as well as get players connected to decentralization.  Advertisement Animoca Brands’ Co-Founder and Executive Chairman Yat Siu is heartened by the support the company has gotten from its numerous investors, and he plans to spread the good news to chess players all around the world. According to him, forming an alliance with Chess.com has provided the opportunity to interact with some of the best chess players and to introduce the game to the open metaverse. According to Grant Lee, Chief Strategy Officer of Chess.com, this will be their opportunity to reach out to chess enthusiasts around the world and provide them with alternative perspectives on the game itself. Anichess is an affiliate of Animoca Brands and is involved in advancing decentralized chess. Its entire focus is bringing together the chess game’s old-world charm with modernization and tokenization.    Chess.com, for its part, is a prime online platform, along with a community that is actively involved with the chess game. It has, to its credit, over a hundred million listed users.  Advertisement Animoca Brands, on the other hand, is an absolute leader in gamification, digital entertainment, and blockchain. Its prime focus is on furthering digital property rights and taking an active part in the establishment of the open metaverse.  Advertisement 