
  
		  
		  
		  
		 
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		
   Toronto, Ontario - February 15, 2023 (Newsfile Corp.) (Investorideas.com Newswire) Cypherpunk Holdings Inc. (CSE: HODL) (OTC Pink: CYFRF) ("Cypherpunk" or, the "Company"), a sector leader for blockchain, privacy and cryptography focused investments, would like to announce an update on the Company's holdings. Purchase of Animoca Brand Shares The Company is pleased to announce that it has acquired 9.09 million ordinary shares of Animoca Brands Corporation Limited ("Animoca Brands") through secondary market trades. The Company paid an aggregate purchase price of approximately AUD $10 million (CAD $9.42 million) for this purchase.  Commenting on the purchase, Tony Guoga, Cypherpunk's Chief Executive Officer, stated: "We are delighted to invest into Animoca Brands again, this has proved to be a great investment in 2021 and we were able to exit within short period of time and realize a profit of over 250%. The Company feels Animoca Brands is undervalued based on its wide array of assets in the Metaverse, NFT and GameFi sectors. The Company believes in Animoca Brands management and vision and feel they are well positioned to deliver value for shareholders." Sale of IPv4 Addresses The company recently sold all of its 24,572 IPv4 addresses for CAD $ 1,155,000.  Structured Products: AB Digital Strategies Fund The Company sold its stake in AB Digital Strategies Fund which is managed by Isla Capital Ltd. The proceeds from the sale are CAD $1.57m. This represents 22% loss on the original investment. The company has currently no other direct exposure to cryptocurrencies. Other Investments: The Company maintains its other equity investments in Chia Networks Inc, ZkSnacks Ltd (dba Wasabi Wallet), NGRAVE, and Samourai Wallet. The company also owns approximately 2500 TH of mining hardware which continues to be operated under contract by MineOn LLC (dba MiningStore). About Cypherpunk Holdings Inc.  Cypherpunk was established to invest in currencies, companies, technologies and protocols, which enhance or protect privacy. Its strategy is to make targeted investments in businesses and assets with strong privacy attributes, often within the blockchain ecosystem, including select cryptocurrencies. Current equity investments include Samourai Wallet, Wasabi Wallet, Chia, NGRAVE and GOAT. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information  This news release contains "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable securities laws. Generally, any statements that are not historical facts may contain forward-looking information, and forward-looking information can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or indicates that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will be" taken, "occur" or "be achieved." Forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to the Company's expectation or belief regarding its investment in shares of Animoca Brand and Animoca Brand's future performance or business. There is no assurance that the Company's plans or objectives will be implemented as set out herein, or at all. Forward-looking information is based on certain factors and assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable at the time such statements are made and is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that such forward-looking information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such information. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's beliefs, estimates and opinions on the date that statements are made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other circumstances should change, except as required by law. Investors are cautioned against attributing undue certainty to forward-looking statements.  Officer/Director Contact: Tony GuogaChief Executive Officertony@cypherpunkholdings.comOffice: 1-647-946-1300 Investor Relations Contact: Veronika OswaldInvestor Relationsveronika@cypherpunkholdings.comOffice: 1-647-946-1300 More Info: Disclaimer/Disclosure: Investorideas.com is a digital publisher of third party sourced news, articles and equity research as well as creates original content, including video, interviews and articles. Original content created by investorideas is protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Our site does not make recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks, services or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investing involves risk and possible losses. This site is currently compensated for news publication and distribution, social media and marketing, content creation and more. Disclosure is posted for each compensated news release, content published /created if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and was published for the sole interest of our readers and followers. Contact management and IR of each company directly regarding specific questions. More disclaimer info: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp Learn more about publishing your news release and our other news services on the Investorideas.com newswire https://www.investorideas.com/News-Upload/ Global investors must adhere to regulations of each country. Please read Investorideas.com privacy policy: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Private_Policy.asp Get Great Trading Ideas and News Alerts   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Investorideas.com is the go-to platform for big investing ideas. About Us
Contact
Non Profits we support
Write for Us
Showcase
Domains for Sale via Investor Ideas
Disclaimer / Disclosure
News Syndication Partners
RSS Newsfeeds
Contributor Guidelines
Partners / Links
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Read Investor Ideas News on Apple News
Investorideas.com on Seeking Alpha 
Investorideas.com on Stocktwits  Advertise / Guest PostsServices - news and social media publishing, editorial content creation with ticker tag articles and podcast interviewsPublish NewsBecome A Featured Company Biotech Stock News
Cannabis stocks
Cannabis stocks newswire
Clean Energy News
Defense Stocks
Energy stocks
Gold and Mining News
Investing in Cryptocurrency and Blockchain
Investor Ideas, Trading Ideas and Stocks to Watch
Investorideas.com Newswire
Music Stocks
Renewable Energy Stocks
Sports Stock News
Trading Tech Stocks
Water Stocks WaterNewwire.com News
Research
Trade - list of stock trading apps
Job Search
Join our Investor Club
Login
Free News Alerts
420 Cannabis Investor Ideas
Marketplace/Crowdfunding/ICO's
Podcasts
Podcasts for Cannabis News and Stocks to watch
AI Eye Podcast
Cleantech / Climate Change Podcast
Exploring Mining Podcast
Crypto Corner Podcast
Gaming Podcast
Wine Down Wednesday
Videos
Social Media Platform & Investor Community
Play by Play Sports News and Stocks
Marketplace
Wine Down Corner Agriculture
Auto 
Beverage and Food
Biodefense
Biotech
Bitcoin/blockchain
Cannabis/Hemp
China
Defense/Security
Energy/Oil
Fuel Cell
Gaming/Online Gambling
Gold/Mining 
Homebuilding/Real Estate
India
Health, Wellness  and Sustainability
Luxury/Jewelry
Mining/Metals
Music /Entertainment
Natural Gas
Nanotechnology
Renewable Energy/Cleantech
Sports
Technology
Toys
Water
Wine © 2000 - 2024 Investorideas.com