Comment Janky and Guggimon, “synthetic” celebrities conceived in a studio and big on social platforms like TikTok and Instagram, where they exist as influencers with millions of followers, hyping up other brands, music acts and themselves, are soon coming to a streaming screen, and maybe a Whole Foods, near you. Superplastic, the startup that created and develops the characters, has raised $20 million led by Amazon’s Alexa Fund, a strategic investment that will see Superplastic and its characters initially collaborating on an animated comedy series with Amazon Studios, and working closer with the retail and internet services behemoth as it looks for more ways to connect with younger consumers. “Amazon is everywhere,” Superplastic’s founder and CEO Paul Budnitz said in an interview, highlighting its investor’s reach in media, commerce, logistics and technology as all areas where Superplastic has something to gain. “And as an IP company, to me it’s interesting what can we do with Whole Foods.”  The round is being described as a Series A-4, and Superplastic is not disclosing its valuation (nor has it ever from what we can see). Amazon is a previous investor, and others in this round speak to a bigger opportunity Superplastic is taking to bring in strategic backers that will help it build out more character-based products — the “Superplastic character universe,” as the startup calls it — across platforms such as games and other social networks. They include Craft Ventures, Google Ventures, Galaxy Digital, Kering, Sony Japan, Scribble Ventures, Kakao, Animoca Brands, Day One Ventures and Betaworks. Superplastic has now raised $58 million to date. Amazon’s interest in Superplastic also underscores a recurring theme in tech right now: we’re seeing increasingly blurred lines between media and technology, where one is being leveraged to disseminate the other, in today’s digital landscape. (That’s a theme that has come up in other developments: take, for example, yesterday’s news that BuzzFeed and OpenAI are collaborating on a new quiz format.) On the one hand, Budnitz sees Superplastic and other companies like it as this generation’s Disney: beloved characters with a universe of experiences built out around them. In today’s world, that experience, and the beloved characters themselves, inevitably have a major tech component. Budnitz says there is a whole team of quirky and creative humans who workshop all of the concepts that go into building out the characters of Janky and Guggimon (and a third called Dayzee). That is then fed into what he described to me as its built-from-the-ground-up tech platform that helps the company quickly put together videos and other experiences where its characters interact with brands, other influencers and the world at large. Amazon in part will be helpful on this front, he said. Superplastic is built on its own tech stack, but “Amazon is the perfect partner” to contribute more cutting-edge technology to continue enhancing that. Superplastic is also hosted on AWS, he added. Budnitz is a longtime entrepreneur who has a track record both in merchandising and the highs and lows of trying to build social and viral experiences online. He founded the “designer toy” brand Kidrobot, which is still going; and was also the person behind one of the first attempts to rattle the social hegemony by way of “ello,” which flashed and then fizzled, a cautionary tale for all the efforts currently underway to build the “next Twitter” in the bleak Elon Midwinter. In a way, Superplastic is the product of that past experience, mixed in with how people engage online today and those blurred lines between media and tech. Budnitz makes a point of not being a personal user of social media. “You won’t find me on any social media at all,” he said. But he and his team are very much aware of the role that social media plays in their business. “If the assumption is that you want to be a billion-fan mega star, you have to be on social,” Budnitz said. It’s there to build audience but also to figure out what Superplastic should be doing. TikTok, which is by far the company’s biggest platform right now he said, is very useful “as a place to gather signal,” he said. “The usage and momentum on there provides insights about how a piece of content will play with all of our audience. That matters to Amazon.” Indeed, for Amazon, Superplastic is part of a new stage of interest for the Alexa Fund. As we noted in a recent profile of the fund and interview with its founder, Paul Bernard, it very much started out as a vehicle for backing and incubating startups to help the company build out its voice/AI ecosystem, but more recent investments have also leaned heavily into the company’s media business and startups that can help bolster that. On top of that, the company is looking at more ways to evolve with how consumers are evolving. Amazon might not own a TikTok or Instagram, but an investment in Superplastic gives it another entry point into connecting with and building products for that younger demographic. “To help evolve Amazon, we need to be increasingly paying attention to what is resonating on those social platforms,” said Bernard. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  Powered by WordPress VIP