Follow Invezz on Telegram, Twitter, and Google News for instant updates > While we reported proponents such as Animoca brands co-founder Yat Siu believes no-fungible tokens are here to stay, the industry prints worrying figures day by day. That has affected associated assets, including ApeCoin (APE), which hit new all-time lows today (7 July). Are you looking for signals & alerts from pro-traders? Sign-up to Invezz Signals™ for FREE. Takes 2 mins. Apecoin (APE) Price Trend is Bearish, Falls to New All-Time Low https://t.co/S0lPo8gf8Z    The Apecoin (APE) price has fallen by 93% since its all-time high. The price reached a new all-tim… pic.twitter.com/j4IdjdxcFt — David Adam (@DavidAd75944560) July 7, 2023 
 ApeCoin price has declined by approximately 93% since touching ATHs to hit all-time lows of around $1.83 on Friday. Further, the asset’s indicators and price action present faded reversal signals, suggesting continued downtrends. That comes as the NFT market continues to slump. The ApeCoin ecosystem uses APE as its native token. The altcoin serves utility and governance purposes, fueling and rewarding creators that push the web3 agenda. APE price recorded remarkable surges after launch before resorting to downsides since April last year (2022). The downward journey saw the token hitting all-time lows of $1.83 on 7 July 2023. In that context, ApeCoin has lost around 93% of its value since its ATH. With few elements coming into rescue, APE price could dip toward the support level of $1.60, formed by the previous surge’s 1.27 external Fibonacci retracement. The FIB zone will determine possible lows as the token lacks horizontal support beneath the current price. Furthermore, ApeCoin price action has followed a descending resistance since Feb 2023. The line would likely hinder temporary price recoveries. Buyers should ensure a breakout from the hurdle to authorize potential bullish reversals. Invezz.com highlighted how the NFT market deteriorated after Azuki ruined non-fungible token sentiment after launching a collection that resembles its initial NFT artwork. Indeed, the industry is no longer lucrative, with developers failing to satisfy participants with intriguing creations. Bored Ape Yacht Club, an NFT collection designed as a gateway to the ApeCoin space, has also slumped relentlessly. BAYC's floor prices have been steadily dropping. ???? At the time of writing, the collection floor sat around 30 ETH. Many holders and enthusiasts attribute this to dilutions and fragmentation. — nft now (@nftnow) July 6, 2023 
 BAYC has dropped beneath 30 Ether since exploring ATH of around 150 ETH in March 2021. That reflects a significant 80% dip as the collection touches 20-month lows. Want easy-to-follow crypto, forex & stock trading signals? Make trading simple by copying our team of pro-traders. Consistent results. Sign-up today at Invezz Signals™.    Use Invezz APP Get a better user experience Allow notifications? Allow us to send you updates You must agree to the privacy policy.