Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest US startup funding rounds from January 2023. I have included some additional information such as industry, company description, round type, founders, and total equity funding raised to further the analysis.  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: Emeryville-based Metagenomi uses metagenomics and machine learning to discover novel genome editing systems for therapeutics development. Founded by Brian Thomas and Jillian Banfield in 2018, Metagenomi has now raised a total of $456.4M in total equity funding and is backed by Moderna Therapeutics, Bayer, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Bristol Myers Squibb, and RA Capital Management.
Investors in the round: Catalio Capital Management, Leaps by Bayer, Moderna Therapeutics, Novo Holdings, SymBiosis LLC
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Biotechnology, Machine Learning, Therapeutics
Founders: Brian Thomas, Jillian Banfield
Founding year: 2018
Location: Emeryville
Total equity funding raised: $456.4M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: San Bruno-based Mill offers a kitchen bin that dries, shrinks, and de-stinks leftover food, eliminating food waste. Founded by Harry Tannenbaum and Matthew Rogers in 2020, Mill has now raised a total of $100.0M in total equity funding and is backed by GV, Lowercarbon Capital, Energy Impact Partners, Breakthrough Energy Ventures, and Prelude Ventures.
Investors in the round: Breakthrough Energy Ventures, Energy Impact Partners, GV, Lowercarbon Capital, Prelude Ventures
Industry: CleanTech, Recycling, Sustainability, Waste Management
Founders: Harry Tannenbaum, Matthew Rogers
Founding year: 2020
Location: San Bruno
Total equity funding raised: $100.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series D
Description: San Francisco-based Carbon Health is a tech-enabled healthcare company that delivers a virtual care experience. Founded by Caesar Djavaherian, Eren Bali, Greg Burrell, Pablo Stanley, and Tom Berry in 2015, Carbon Health has now raised a total of $622.5M in total equity funding and is backed by 500 Global, Fifth Wall, BlackRock, Two Sigma Ventures, and Flatiron Health.
Investors in the round: CVS Health Ventures
Industry: Electronic Health Record (EHR), Health Care, Medical, mHealth, Mobile Apps
Founders: Caesar Djavaherian, Eren Bali, Greg Burrell, Pablo Stanley, Tom Berry
Founding year: 2015
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $622.5M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: Syracuse-based Impel offers a digital engagement platform for vehicle retailers or every type and size. Founded by Devin Daly and Michael Quigley in 2011, Impel has now raised a total of $130.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Silversmith Capital Partners, Wavecrest Growth Partners, StartFast Ventures, UpVentures Capital, and Venture Capital Fund of New England.
Investors in the round: Silversmith Capital Partners, Wavecrest Growth Partners
Industry: Augmented Reality, Automotive, Enterprise Software, Marketplace, SaaS
Founders: Devin Daly, Michael Quigley
Founding year: 2011
Location: Syracuse
Total equity funding raised: $130.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: New York-based Chronosphere develops a scalable, reliable, and customizable monitoring solution built for cloud-native applications. Founded by Martin Mao and Rob Skillington in 2019, Chronosphere has now raised a total of $342.5M in total equity funding and is backed by GV, Founders Fund, Lux Capital, General Atlantic, and Spark Capital.
Investors in the round: Addition, Founders Fund, General Atlantic, Geodesic Capital, Glynn Capital Management, Greylock, GV, Lux Capital
Industry: Analytics, Cloud Infrastructure, Information Technology, Productivity Tools, SaaS
Founders: Martin Mao, Rob Skillington
Founding year: 2019
Location: New York
Total equity funding raised: $342.5M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: Woburn-based Boston Metal is a metallurgy company developing technology to reduce the carbon footprint of steel production. Founded by Antoine Allanore, Donald Sadoway, and Jim Yurko in 2012, Boston Metal has now raised a total of $190.0M in total equity funding and is backed by SiteGround Capital, ArcelorMittal, National Science Foundation, Vale, and Energy Impact Partners.
Investors in the round: ArcelorMittal, Microsoft Climate Innovation Fund, SiteGround Capital
Industry: Building Material, CleanTech, Manufacturing, Mechanical Engineering, Precious Metals
Founders: Antoine Allanore, Donald Sadoway, Jim Yurko
Founding year: 2012
Location: Woburn
Total equity funding raised: $190.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: Dallas-based Colossal is a bioscience and genetic engineering company focused on de-extinction of past species. Founded by Andrew Busey, Ben Lamm, Brian Beard, George Church, Kent Wakeford, and Peter Phillips in 2021, Colossal Biosciences has now raised a total of $225.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Bob Nelsen, Animoca Brands, Boost VC, Draper Associates, and Capital Factory.
Investors in the round: Animal Capital, Animoca Brands, Bob Nelsen, Bold Capital Partners, Breyer Capital, In-Q-Tel, Jazz Venture Partners, Peak 6, US Innovative Technology Fund, Victor Vescovo, WestRiver Group
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Biotechnology, Genetics, Life Science
Founders: Andrew Busey, Ben Lamm, Brian Beard, George Church, Kent Wakeford, Peter Phillips
Founding year: 2021
Location: Dallas
Total equity funding raised: $225.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: Boston-based Asimov employs artificial intelligence to develop tools for the design and manufacture of next-generation therapeutics. Founded by Alec Nielsen, Christopher Voigt, Douglas Densmore, and Raja Srinivas in 2017, Asimov has now raised a total of $205.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, Fidelity Management and Research Company, Horizons Ventures, AME Cloud Ventures, and Pillar VC.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Casdin Capital, Fidelity Management and Research Company, Horizons Ventures, KdT Ventures, Pillar VC
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Biotechnology, Software, Therapeutics
Founders: Alec Nielsen, Christopher Voigt, Douglas Densmore, Raja Srinivas
Founding year: 2017
Location: Boston
Total equity funding raised: $205.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series A
Description: New York-based Paradigm is rebuilding the clinical research ecosystem. Founded by Milind Kamkolkar in 2022, Paradigm has now raised a total of $203.0M in total equity funding and is backed by General Catalyst, GV, ARCH Venture Partners, Mubadala Capital Ventures, and F-Prime Capital.
Investors in the round: ARCH Venture Partners, BrightEdge Fund, F-Prime Capital, General Catalyst, GV, Lux Capital, Magnetic Ventures, Mubadala Capital Ventures
Industry: Health Care, Health Diagnostics, Hospital, Life Science
Founders: Milind Kamkolkar
Founding year: 2022
Location: New York
Total equity funding raised: $203.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: Brentwood-based Monogram Health is a specialty provider of evidence-based in-home care and benefit management services for polychronic patients. Founded by Christopher A. Booker and Mike Uchrin in 2019, Monogram Health has now raised a total of $547.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Humana, TPG, Norwest Venture Partners, CVS Health, and Cigna Ventures.
Investors in the round: Cigna Ventures, CVS Health, Frist Cressey Ventures, Heritage Group, Humana, Memorial Hermann Hospital, Norwest Venture Partners, Pura Vida Investments, Scan, TPG
Industry: Health Care, Hospital, Wellness
Founders: Christopher A. Booker, Mike Uchrin
Founding year: 2019
Location: Brentwood
Total equity funding raised: $547.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 