DONNY VAN DE BEEK is hoping to escape from his Manchester United nightmare by securing a move to Turkey in the next few days. Galatasaray and Fenerbahce are both interested in signing the Dutch international before their transfer window closes on September 15. And the Red Devils would be receptive to an offer after leaving the former Ajax man out of their Champions League squad earlier this month. Van de Beek is worried he could suffer a similar fate when names are put forward for the Premier League by clubs next week. Erik ten Hag has signed Mason Mount and Sofyan Amrabat during the transfer window to strengthen his midfield. That has left Van de Beek surplus to requirements at Old Trafford – but United and the player face a race against the clock to find a solution. United must submit their 25-man Premier League squad by September 13th and Van de Beek is at risk of missing the cut if he remains at the club.  The former Netherlands international was cut from the  Champions League squad - despite injured Luke Shaw and Tyrell Malacia featuring. ESPN report that Ten Hag is willing to accept any offer for the forgotten star. The majority of transfer windows across Europe are now closed but clubs in Turkey can sign players until September 15th, giving United a week to agree a deal. FREE BETS - BEST BETTING OFFERS AND BONUSES NEW CUSTOMERS Turkish giants Besiktas have confirmed the signing of Eric Bailly on a one-year contract after United agreed a free transfer for the Ivory Coast defender. There was hope earlier in the summer that Van de Beek's departure might generate a fee but there's now an acceptance he might have to leave on loan. The Dutch star, who was nominated for the Ballon d'Or in 2019, still has two years left on the five-year deal he signed when he arrived in a £35million deal from Ajax in 2020. The midfielder has endured a difficult time at Old Trafford, making just 60 appearances in all competitions in three years. He spent the second half of the 2021-22 campaign on loan at Everton but only played seven times. Van de Beek suffered a knee injury in January which ruled him out of the remainder of last season. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/