 Log In Global electrical and industrial products distributor Wesco International set record net sales of $21.4 billion in 2022, the company announced Feb. 14 when reporting its 2022 fourth-quarter and full-year financial results. The Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based company had 4Q sales of $5.6 billion — also a record for Wesco — up 15% year-over-year. Wesco’s 4Q sales saw 14% organic sales growth year-over-year, with those organic sales up 4% sequentially from 3Q 2022, when sales were $5.4 billion. Wesco also had record operating cash flow ($422 million) and free cash flow ($399 million) in 4Q. The distributor’s 4Q performance was bolstered by its acquisition of IT solutions distributor Rahi Systems, which closed in November. By Wesco business segment in 4Q: For the full year 2022, Wesco’s record net sales of $21.4 billion were an 18% year-over-year increase, with organic sales also up 18%. The company also reported record operating profit of $1.4 billion; record gross margin of 21.8%, up 100 basis points year-over-year; and record earnings per diluted share of $15.33. By Wesco business segment for the full year: “Wesco delivered a stellar encore performance for the full year 2022 including exceptional fourth quarter results, clearly demonstrating our ability to drive sustained growth and market outperformance,” Wesco Chairman, President and CEO John Engel said in the release. “The success of our business model and integration efforts over the past two and a half years since our transformational combination with Anixter resulted in record full-year sales of $21.4 billion, an increase of 18% over last year. “We are building on our strong positive momentum and 2023 is off to an excellent start. Our three-year post-merger integration plan is coming to a close. Our digital transformation plan is accelerating, and we are on-track to deliver advanced digital capabilities that will create superior value for our customers and supplier partners.” Wesco, which ranked No. 2 on MDM’s 2022 Top Electrical, Data & Security Distributors list, reported that its preliminary January 2023 sales were up 17% year-over-year. As Wesco continues to blossom since its $4.5-billion acquisition of Anixter International in 2020, the company rebranded its international operations under the name Wesco Anixter earlier this year. Wesco also closed on a previously reported deal to acquire Rahi Systems Holdings, Inc. for… Full-year sales and revenue also increased 17% over the prior year, the heavy equipment maker… During 2022, AD’s membership grew to 866 separately owned independents across 14 divisions and three… You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ