


Aug. 11 (UPI) -- Wholesale prices, minus volatile items like food and energy, saw the sharpest increase over the 12-month period to July since early 2023, the U.S. government said Friday.
The Producer Price Index, a reflection of prices at the wholesale level, increased at an annual basis by 0.3% to July, following no change year-on-year to June and a 0.3% decline in May.
Advertisement
An index on final demand, minus volatile items such as food, energy and trade, increased by 0.2% in July, the largest increase since February, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported.
Much of the increase was attributed to an increase in prices for steel-mill products and crude oil, which increased by 7.6% and 8.4%, respectively. Oil prices in particular are on pace for the seventh-straight week of gains, supported by commitments from Saudi Arabia to keep 1 million barrels per day off the market through at least September.
Related
New York Fed: U.S. credit card debt passed $1 trillion for first time
U.S. added 187,000 jobs to payrolls in July; jobless rate changed little
Oil prices rally in response to production cut extension in Saudi Arabia
For consumers, inflation increased last month, with the cost of a place to live the largest contributor, the government reported Thursday. The Consumer Price Index was up 3.2% on an annual basis.
Inflation rose to 3% during the prior month, making July the first month for an increase in 13 months.
Advertisement
So-called core inflation, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, showed a 0.2% month-on-month gain to July and 4.7% on an annual basis, down slightly from the prior month.
The Federal Reserve is working to combat inflation through aggressive rate hikes, raising its rate by 25 basis points last month. U.S. Federal Reserve Gov. Michelle Bowman said Monday that progress has been made in the fight against inflation, but rates remain above the 2% target and may warrant additional action.
"Of course, monetary policy is not on a pre-set path, and I will be closely monitoring the incoming data and their implications for the economic outlook," she said.
U.S. markets were treading water, with the Dow off only around 0.2% early in the Friday trading session.



Topics
Federal Reserve






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
As Democratic convention gears up, Chicago police already making arrests
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators while even more protests are planned for this week.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
GM announces it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried employees
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- General Motors announced on Monday that it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried workers around the world in its software and global division.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
More rain forecast as more than 100 evacuated in 'historic' Conn., N.Y, N.J flooding
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Severe and "historic" flooding across parts of the northeast U.S. left many stranded or evacuated by Sunday into Monday in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey as weather forecasts say more rain is on the way.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Carl Icahn to pay $2M to settle SEC charges he faild to disclose stock pledges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Prominent activist investor Carl Icahn and his publicly traded company will pay $2 million in civil penalties to settle charges from the SEC announced Monday for violating the SEC Act of 1934.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
House GOP accuses Joe Biden of impeachable offenses in report
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- House Republicans from three committees argued that President Joe Biden committed impeachable offenses while in office during its 291-page report released on Monday.










U.S. News // 11 hours ago
1 dead, 7 wounded in Baltimore mass shooting
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Multiple gunmen opened fire during a gathering on a East Baltimore street Sunday night, killing one person and injuring seven others, authorities said.










U.S. News // 17 hours ago
Police investigating missing Michigan woman find human remains on husband's property
 Aug. 18 (UPI) -- Michigan State Police said Sunday that investigators have found human remains in the search for Dee Warner, a 52-year-old woman who has been missing since April 2021.










U.S. News // 18 hours ago
Dozens at Colorado Spring's sold-out airshow treated for heat-related illness
 Aug. 18 (UPI) -- Dozens of spectators of a Colorado airshow were treated for heat-related illness over the weekend, according to authorities who said 10 people were hospitalized due to the extreme weather.






 Aug. 11 (UPI) -- Wholesale prices, minus volatile items like food and energy, saw the sharpest increase over the 12-month period to July since early 2023, the U.S. government said Friday. The Producer Price Index, a reflection of prices at the wholesale level, increased at an annual basis by 0.3% to July, following no change year-on-year to June and a 0.3% decline in May.
Advertisement An index on final demand, minus volatile items such as food, energy and trade, increased by 0.2% in July, the largest increase since February, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. Much of the increase was attributed to an increase in prices for steel-mill products and crude oil, which increased by 7.6% and 8.4%, respectively. Oil prices in particular are on pace for the seventh-straight week of gains, supported by commitments from Saudi Arabia to keep 1 million barrels per day off the market through at least September.
Related
New York Fed: U.S. credit card debt passed $1 trillion for first time
U.S. added 187,000 jobs to payrolls in July; jobless rate changed little
Oil prices rally in response to production cut extension in Saudi Arabia For consumers, inflation increased last month, with the cost of a place to live the largest contributor, the government reported Thursday. The Consumer Price Index was up 3.2% on an annual basis. Inflation rose to 3% during the prior month, making July the first month for an increase in 13 months.
Advertisement So-called core inflation, which strips out volatile food and energy prices, showed a 0.2% month-on-month gain to July and 4.7% on an annual basis, down slightly from the prior month. The Federal Reserve is working to combat inflation through aggressive rate hikes, raising its rate by 25 basis points last month. U.S. Federal Reserve Gov. Michelle Bowman said Monday that progress has been made in the fight against inflation, but rates remain above the 2% target and may warrant additional action. "Of course, monetary policy is not on a pre-set path, and I will be closely monitoring the incoming data and their implications for the economic outlook," she said. U.S. markets were treading water, with the Dow off only around 0.2% early in the Friday trading session.