ARSENAL lost 2-0 to Premier League rivals Manchester United following a disappointing performance in the US. The Gunners took on United at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey and failed to replicate their dominant display against the MLS All-Stars on Wednesday. The Red Devils opened the scoring in the half-hour mark with a powerful long-range shot by Bruno Fernandes that Aaron Ramsdale failed to hold onto. Gabriel Magalhaes and Takehiro Tomiyasu also took too long to close Fernandes down. United doubled their lead just seven minutes later when Gabriel lost possession in midfield and that allowed Jadon Sancho to break through and beat Ramsdale with a clinical finish. But who stood out and who struggled for Arsenal? SunSport's Kostas Lianos rates every single player at MetLife Stadium: Couldn't inspire the same level of confidence between the sticks like he did against the MLS All-Stars. Carries responsibility for Bruno Fernandes' goal and didn't save a single penalty. Very few moments of brilliance from the summer signing, who started at right-back. But Timber showed he could form a good partnership with Bukayo Saka down the wing. Struggled during Manchester United's counter-attacks. Mikel Arteta would have expected more from his star centre-back. Carries responsibility for both goals as he failed to mark Fernandes during his run and was the one that gave the ball away before Jadon Sancho's strike. Struggled throughout the first half and was rightfully taken off at half-time. Also partly responsible for Fernandes' goal as he didn't mark him on time - was playing out of position at left-back, though. Arsenal fans will be expecting much more from their club record signing this coming season. Failed to anchor the Gunners' midfield and was mostly anonymous throughout the match - early days, though. Also uninspiring, just like his other two fellow summer arrivals. Played on the left in midfield and couldn't cause United any problems. Probably the best of the worst, but not by much. Showed some moments of brilliance and almost got Arsenal back in the game with a clever through-ball from a free-kick only for Eddie Nketiah to miss from close range. BETTING SPECIAL - BEST NO DEPOSIT CASINO OFFERS Showed he could form a good partnership with Timber on the right flank. But was a far cry from his dominant performance against the All-Stars where he amassed two assists. Largely anonymous for Arsenal during both halves. Couldn't create any significant dangers on the left for either United right-back. Had a perfect chance to put Arsenal back in the game when he missed from close range after a brilliant through pass by Odegaard. Will have to do a lot more to take Gabriel Jesus' place. Did better than Tomiyasu on the left but didn't add any significant spark. Seems to be on his way out. Didn't add anything significant after coming off the bench. But he doesn't have to stress about his place in Arteta's starting XI yet... Didn't add much more in defence but kept United at bay. Far fewer leaks on the right than there were on the left during the second half. Failed to inspire any confidence in midfield after his introduction during the second half. Partey's future is still uncertain. Nothing much from the midfielder. Jorginho and Partey failed to limit United's attacks after their introduction in the second half and also didn't push their team-mates forward. Scored an incredible goal against the MLS All-Stars and dominated during Arsenal's first game of their US tour. Couldn't emulate any of that against United but came back from a knock he suffered against the All-Stars.  Came on quite late and couldn't set the game alight. Smith Rowe was largely anonymous after his introduction. Struggled to keep United quiet, just like Partey and Jorginho. Didn't do much to shield the back four and then missed a penalty for good measure. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/