 As design software stocks’ Q4 earnings season wraps, let's dig into this quarter's best and worst performers, including Adobe (NASDAQ:ADBE) and its peers.  The demand for rich, interactive 2D, 3D, VR and AR experiences is growing, and while the ubiquitous metaverse might still be more of a buzzword than a real thing, what is real is the demand for the tools to create these experiences, whether they are games, 3D tours or interactive movies. The 8 design software stocks we track reported a mixed Q4; on average, revenues beat analyst consensus estimates by 2.98%, while on average next quarter revenue guidance was 1.06% under consensus. There has been a stampede out of high valuation technology stocks as raising interest rates encourage investors to value profits over growth again , but design software stocks held their ground better than others, with the share prices up 15% since the previous earnings results, on average.  One of the most well-known Silicon Valley software companies around, Adobe (NASDAQ:ADBE) is a leading provider of software as service in the digital design and document management space. Adobe reported revenues of $4.66 billion, up 9.22% year on year, in line with analyst expectations. It was a decent quarter for the company, with the company surpassing estimates for key topline metrics, including new media ARR and digital media revenue. On the other hand, next quarter's revenue guidance was only in-line.   The stock is up 37.6% since the results and currently trades at $459.9. Is now the time to buy Adobe? Access our full analysis of the earnings results here, it's free. Founded in 2011 before any mass market VR headset was released, Matterport (NASDAQ:MTTR) provides the hardware and software necessary to turn real world spaces into 3D visualization. Matterport reported revenues of $38 million, up 33.3% year on year, beating analyst expectations by 8.13%. It was a very strong quarter for the company, with an impressive beat of analyst estimates and a full year guidance beating analysts' expectations.  Matterport scored the strongest analyst estimates beat and highest full year guidance raise among its peers. The company added 70,000 customers to a total of 771,000. The stock is up 7.81% since the results and currently trades at $2.9. Is now the time to buy Matterport? Access our full analysis of the earnings results here, it's free. Founded in 1982 by John Walker and growing into one of the industry's behemoths, Autodesk (NASDAQ:ADSK) makes computer-aided design (CAD) software for engineering, construction, and architecture companies. Autodesk reported revenues of $1.27 billion, up 8.46% year on year, in line with analyst expectations. It was a weak quarter for the company, with underwhelming revenue guidance for the next quarter and a decline in gross margin.  Autodesk had the weakest performance against analyst estimates in the group. The stock is up 2.46% since the results and currently trades at $202.48. Read our full analysis of Autodesk's results here.  Used to manage the multi-year expansion of the Panama Canal that began in 2007, Procore Technologies (NYSE:PCOR) offers a software-as-service project, finance and quality management platform for the construction industry. Procore Technologies reported revenues of $213.5 million, up 33.9% year on year, beating analyst expectations by 5.07%. It was a strong quarter for the company, with accelerating customer growth. Revenue guidance for the next quarter and full year also came in line with Consensus estimates. The company added 601 customers to a total of 15,089. The stock is up 19.7% since the results and currently trades at $63.65. Read our full, actionable report on Procore Technologies here, it's free.  Used to help design the Mars Rover, Ansys (NASDAQ:ANSS) offers a software-as-a-service platform that enables simulation for engineering and design. ANSYS reported revenues of $509.4 million, up 19.8% year on year, beating analyst expectations by 3.47%. It was a weak quarter for the company, with underwhelming revenue guidance for the next quarter and a decline in gross margin.  ANSYS had the weakest full year guidance update among the peers. The stock is up 5.9% since the results and currently trades at $326.18. Read our full, actionable report on ANSYS here, it's free.  The author has no position in any of the stocks mentioned All market data (will open in new tab) is provided by Barchart Solutions. Copyright © 2024. Information is provided 'as is' and solely for informational purposes, not for trading purposes or advice. For exchange delays and terms of use, please read disclaimer (will open in new tab). © Copyright 2024 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved. Andrew Saunders, President and CEO