Blue Ant Media, the Canadian-owned group with operations spanning TV production, distribution and channels management, is creating a new Asia-Pacific base in Sydney, Australia. It has hired Jon Penn as its Asia-Pacific MD and Jason Soh as VP of distribution, based in Singapore. Penn is a veteran with ten years in Asia with BBC Studios and 11 years of experience at Fremantle. Latterly, he has been a partner at ACT Media Ventures and advised Blue Ant on its expansion in Australia. More from Variety 'Blown Away' Producer MarbleMedia Acquired by Canada's Blue Ant Media, Production and Distribution Merging Into Combined Studio (EXCLUSIVE) Drag Race Universe Channel From World of Wonder and Blue Ant Media Launches in U.S Market (EXCLUSIVE) Blue Ant International Buys Distributor Drive Media Rights in Major U.K. Acquisition (EXCLUSIVE) “The appointments signal the expansion of Blue Ant Media’s channel and program distribution business in Asia Pacific, combining the company’s channel distribution and content sales in the region into one unit. The Asia Pacific expansion aligns with the company’s recent announcement of plans to merge production and distribution operations with marblemedia into one unified studio and rights business,” the company said. Penn will be responsible for overseeing content sales and expanding the distribution of Blue Ant Media’s global branded channels across Asia Pacific. These include the Love Nature brand and Blue Ant Media’s portfolio of FAST channels, including NatureTime, HauntTV, Homeful, Love Pets, Total Crime and HistoryTime.  He reports to Carlyn Staudt, head of commissioning, global media & GM Love Nature and Mark Bishop, co-president of Blue Ant Studios. Soh was previously global channels and distribution director – APAC for Wildbrain and also held senior business roles with WarnerMedia, HBO, Disney and Nickelodeon. Other changes relating to the Asai-Pacific expansion include: Nick Solowski, senior director, international sales & acquisitions, who will continue his multi-regional content sales responsibilities, but will now report to Penn on business in China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand; Morgan Jacobson join’s Penn’s cluster as senior specialist, programming and affiliate marketing for APAC. Jacobsen has relocated to Sydney from Love Nature’s Washington DC office and will be taking on sales and affiliate marketing responsibilities for the region. Best of Variety New Movies Out Now in Theaters: What to See This Week  Oscars Predictions: Adapted Screenplay - Could Ava DuVernay Become the Third Black Woman Screenwriter Ever Nominated for 'Origin?' Oscars Predictions: Animated Feature - Will Hayao Miyazaki's Absence on the Circuit Affect Awards Prospects for 'The Boy and the Heron?' Sign up for Variety’s Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.