The last show of the series headed to the Universal Orlando Resort Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters  Ant and Dec had to temporarily bring a halt to Saturday Night Takeaway proceedings to check Stephen Mulhern was unhurt. Stephen had reprised his popular game of Ant vs Dec, which sees his pals pitted against each other for hilarious challenges. In Saturday evening's show (April 8), Ant was pied in the face by a giant cream dessert after losing the last challenge of the series to Dec. But there was a concerning moment when Stephen, who was on skates, fell over, reports the MEN. Ant and Dec stopped proceedings to make sure he was alright, saying people had been messaging online to ask. Ant asked him: "Stephen. Now you had a bit of a fall when I grabbed you. Are you okay?" Read more: Saturday Night Takeaway viewers in disbelief and say 'how dare they' in Ant and Dec Florida finale Stephen reassured: "Can I just say something. I'm absolutely fine but my knee's on this stage - it's hotter than the earth." Dec pressed: "We're glad you're okay. People online were quite concerned, but you're okay?" Fans were touched to see that Stephen appeared surprised to learn that viewers had been worried about him. He looked baffled as he exclaimed: "Are you serious? They care for me!" And Ant and Dec replied: "They do care for you." @RyanTheSoapking tweeted: "Not Stephen falling flat on his face." @Mulhernnews commented: "Glad Stephen is okay." And @garyhayles85 said: "Aww Stephen looked generally shocked 'they actually like me'." It came during a fun-packed finale in Florida as Ant and Dec took Saturday Night Takeaway across the pond, as the last show of the series headed to the Universal Orlando Resort. Read next:  Optical illusion 'can detect serious mental health condition'   Five singer Scott Robinson offers explanation after his blunder in tribute to S Club 7's Paul Cattermole   Home Bargains fans 'have to get' major brand spotted on shelves for £5   Primark’s £20 'chic' version of Valentino's £1,350 denim jacket is 'perfect' for warmer Spring weather   Read more what's on news  