
01 February 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is contributed or sourced from third parties but has been subject to Finextra editorial review. Here’s a recap of the most headline worthy and recent hires, departures, and company shakeups of this January and what that could mean for 2023. Revolut Revolut is planning to hire a behavioural team that will be referred to as ‘CultureLab’ to address an "aggressive" corporate culture, according
 to an article published in 
The Guardian. The company also plans on "upgrading" this culture and introducing new "values-based behaviours" with the CultureLab team, which will include an applied behavioural scientist and psychologist. N26 N26’s chief financial officer 
Jan Kemper is leaving the digital bank despite only joining the company 18 months ago after he was brought in to help move towards an IPO and acting as the interim COO after Adrienne Gormley’s departure in 2022. Co-founder Maximilian Tayenthal will take
 on the role of COO alongside his job as managing director of N26 Bank while they search for a new CFO. Ant Group Alibaba founder 
Jack Ma ceded control of Ant Group this month under a corporate restructuring, meaning that his stake in the company will be reduced to 6%. Ma owns 10% of Ant but controls the company through related entities representing 53.46% of the shares of Ant Group.
 Under the restructuring he will cede this control by transferring voting rights to independent Ant executives. Ant has been in Chinese regulators' crosshairs for years. In late 2020, a planned $37 billion IPO was derailed by moves to impose tighter restrictions
 on fintech firms entering the banking market. HM Treasury The 
UK Treasury is advertising for a candidate to steer the Government's approach to the introduction of a central bank digital currency. With the Bank of England, the Treasury is working through the CBDC Taskforce to explore the case for a digital pound. The
 two-year job, can be based in London or Darlington on a salary of £61,260 - £66,500 per year. The Treasury will be running a drop-in session for potential applicants, on 6 February 13:30-14:30, to give candidates greater insight about the role. Open Banking Implementation Entity Marion King will succeed Charlotte Crosswell as chair and trustee of the Open Banking Implementation Entity. King will step into the post at the start of February when Crosswell departs to take over the chair at the Centre for Finance, Innovation and Technology
 (CFIT), an organisation created on the advice of the Kalifa Review. She will be focused on protecting the ongoing CMA Order requirements and the consideration and potential implementation of the Joint Regulatory Oversight Committee’s (JROC) decisions on the
 future long-term regulatory framework for Open Banking in the UK. Feedzai Paige McNamee exclusively reported on 
Feedzai’s workforce cut amid cited restructuring. While exact numbers aren’t clear, teams in several countries were affected. The cuts come despite the CEO Nuno Sebastiao telling a company-wide ‘all-hands-on-deck’ meeting last month that the organisation’s
 performance was strong and that employees should not be worried about their roles. The company has recently been rolling out employee-friendly policies such as mental health, menstruation, and menopause leave, building on a 2021 decision to move to a four-day
 week. Mollie Mollie appointed Klarna's former chief technology officer Koen Köppen as CEO this month after the departure of Shane Happach. Köppen, previously the CTO of Klarna for five years, joined Mollie in the same role in May. One of Köppen's key responsibilities
 will be to increase the pace of product development and delivery across the business. Mollie’s current CEO is also leaving the company to take up a leadership role in Asia. Marqeta Marqeta has a new CEO as of yesterday. 
Simon Khalaf joined the company in June 2022 as CPO, and with over 30 years of experience in scaling up large firms such as Flurry, Twilio, Verizon, Yahoo, and Novell, Khalaf succeeds founder and chairman Jason Gardner, who will become executive chairman.
 In other news, Todd Pollak, who has experience at Google and Ancestry, has been named chief revenue officer. Copper Copper has appointed the former chancellor of the exchequer 
Philip Hammond as chairman this month. Hammond was hired by Copper as a special advisor to the board in October 2021. Since then, the firm has grown from 50 to over 300 people, doubling revenues. In appointing Hammond, Copper will be leaning on his connections
 and high public profile to make the case for the need to connect traditional finance with distributed ledger technology and reform the UK’s regulatory framework governing digital assets. Long read 
24 July

/payments

 Long read 
18 July

/markets

 Long read 
11 July

/markets

 Long read 
07 June

/crypto

 Long read 
06 June

/regulation

 Andrew Harris Head of Product, Marketing and Customer at Jenius Bank 
28 March 2024

/predictions

 Vladimir Krasik Global Head of Internal Treasury at Revolut 
06 March 2024

/predictions

 Arvin Abraham Partner at Goodwin Procter 
27 February 2024

/predictions

 Madhvi Mavadiya Head of Content at Finextra 
20 November 2023

/predictions

 Sehrish Alikhan Reporter at Finextra 
29 March 2023

/predictions

 This content is contributed or sourced from third parties but has been subject to Finextra editorial review. Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre