Health New England has given  $150,000 to enable the Go Fresh Mobile Market to expand into the winter months. From left are Monica Hernandez with Go Fresh, Julia Wilkins of Health New England, Riley Gilroy, Go Fresh program director and Fred Rose, Fred Rose, Wellspring Cooperative Corporation co-director.  They were in front of  the Gentile Apartments on William Street in Springfield.  As our community shifts to living with COVID-19 and economic stressors bring different challenges, Health New England recognizes and takes to heart its responsibility to help ensure our members get the health care they need while managing the associated costs. Our commitment to Western Massachusetts is rooted in our mission to improve the health and lives of the people in our communities. To fulfill this mission we are collaborating even more closely with our parent company, Baystate Health, expanding our role of service and support in the community, and caring for our colleagues in and out of the workplace. Collaboration: As a subsidiary of Baystate Health, Health New England has the unique ability to partner directly with health care professionals. One example of this is the BeHealthy Partnership Accountable Care Partnership Plan. The collaboration enables Health New England and the Baystate Health Care Alliance, which includes Baystate Health Centers and Baystate Medical Practices, to provide patient-centered care to over 50,000 Medicaid recipients in Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin counties. This model wraps patients in collaborative care to address not only medical concerns, but also social determinants of health, which are the non-medical factors that influence health, such as the availability of healthy food, places to exercise, stress, social exclusion, and transportation. We continue to find ways to work more closely with the doctors and other health care providers in Western Massachusetts to offer quality care while helping members get the most for their health care dollars. Community: As the only regional not-for-profit health plan based in Springfield, Health New England continues our tradition of giving back to the communities we serve. Health New England committed approximately $540,000 in investments back to the community in 2022. Significant funding included a $100,000 grant to improve the health status in communities we serve by addressing racial, ethnic, economic and gender health disparities, and improving health equity for all. We strengthened our community relationships through existing multiyear commitments to organizations focused on housing, behavioral health, maternal and child health, food insecurity and more through the “Where Health Matters” Grant Program, distributing $250,000 in grant funds to positively influence the health and well-being of community populations most in need. Some of our grant recipients include Clinical & Support Options, Girls on the Run, The Care Center, the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts and Wellspring. These organizations will create and expand services to help the most vulnerable among us thrive. We also partnered with PeoplesBank to fund Gardening the Community, a food justice organization engaged in youth development, urban agriculture and sustainable living to build healthy and equitable communities. These investments bring our five-year total to more than $3.6 million in support of area non-profit organizations. Colleagues: Our ability to serve both members and the local community would simply not be possible without our associates. At Health New England, we take care of our employees so they can better serve you. We have many programs and services available to help with physical and emotional health, and wellness incentives to encourage employees to reach their best health. Health New England is actively increasing diversity within our associate population. We value the experiences that each one of our associates brings to the workplace and this helps us continue to serve the unique needs of members of all races, sexual orientations, gender identities, socioeconomic statuses, religions and other diverse backgrounds. Many of our colleagues are your neighbors, your friends and your customers. They care greatly for the people in the communities in which we live, work and play. In 2023, we look forward to reinvigorating and expanding upon our company’s commitment to volunteering with local organizations, efforts that took a hit during the depths of the pandemic. You can expect to see more Health New England employees working with our non-profit partners to provide basic needs, improve our communities, and help kids get a great start. Whatever 2023 brings, Health New England remains committed to putting our members and our community first as we adapt to an ever-changing health care landscape. Richard Swift is president and CEO of Health New England. To learn more about Health New England, visit healthnewengland.org. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices