 To strengthen community policing and boost its commitment to enhancing security, Asharami Energy, a Sahara Group Upstream Oil & Gas company, through Sahara Group Foundation is keen on renovating police stations one city at a time. Chiemelie Ezeobi reports that recently, police stations in Koko, Delta State and Ologbo in Edo State, were beneficiaries of such upgrade  The vision of Sahara Foundation, which drives Sahara Group’s Personal and Corporate Social Responsibility (PCSR) initiatives, is to promote activities targeting sustained (impact driven) societal wellbeing and touching lives through transformative partnerships and at the foundation, its key commitment pillars for all interventions, include – Increase Access to Energy and Sustainable environments. Since  2019, Sahara Foundation has been promoting sustainable policing through police station renovations by building of infrastructure with equipment and even solar systems upgrade. The  project is spread across the country as they go about renovating different police stations. So far, through partnerships, they have overhauled eight police stations in Lagos, Rivers and Delta States, with many more in the pipeline. The police stations include MMA1 (Beesam) Police Station, Lagos; Ijora Police Station, Lagos; Trinity Police Station, Lagos; Onne Police Station, Rivers; Ijede Police Station, Lagos; Koko Police Station, Delta; Ipaja Police Station, Lagos; and Ologbo Police Station, Edo State.  One of such partnerships comes through  Asharami Energy, a Sahara Group upstream Company, which is a leading Exploration and Production company that delivers sustainable growth through the acquisition and development of viable assets across Sub-Saharan Africa. Essentially, the company is committed to the achievement of highest known standards of quality, health, security, and safety in all its operations. Enhancing Security in Koko  Not done, Asharami Energy, Sahara Group Foundation also renovated Koko Police Station, in Delta State in keeping with its commitment to enhancing security in Koko and its environs. Delivered through Sahara Group Foundation, the corporate social sustainability vehicle for Sahara Group, the project is yet another expression of the organisation’s commitment to making a difference across its host communities. Speaking at the event, the Director, Sahara Group Foundation, Ejiro Gray said “At Sahara Group Foundation, we are fully committed to impacting lives and livelihoods wherever we operate. Our unwavering commitment to promoting a sustainable environment is reflected through projects like this. The installation of solar panels will facilitate access to clean and reliable energy, helping the police carry out its activities seamlessly.”  Gray commended the Nigerian Police Force for their support and collaboration during the renovation process, adding that Sahara Group Foundation would continue to seek avenues for joining forces with well-meaning organisations for the purpose of touching and improving lives and communities. The newly commissioned Koko Police Station boasts of a range of enhancements, including, structural repairs and aesthetical changes to the building, plumbing works and change of sanitary wares. Other renovation work done includes a new office block/building for investigative officers, and the installation of solar power.  In his remarks, Babatomiwa Adesida, Head, Stakeholder and Community Relations, Asharami Energy, said the project would help promote sustainable policing in the community and foster economic growth and development. Adesida stated that “the renovation of the Koko Police Station reinforces Asharami Energy’s commitment to working collaboratively with its host communities to drive sustainable development.  “Security is a critical requirement for the well-being of any community, and we are confident that the project will support the activities of the police, improve security remarkably, and give the good people of Koko the confidence to pursue their dreams.”  In his address to guests at the event, the Deputy Police Commissioner, Koko Police Station, CSP Offordile Leonard commended both Asharami Energy and the Sahara Group Foundation for the work they have done with the Koko police station.  He stated that “the renovated Police Station will significantly boost the morale of the officers at the Koko Police Station and support their endeavors towards promoting peace and security within the Koko area, as well as neighboring communities”.  Strengthening Community Policing in Ologbo The need to strengthen community policing also spurred Asharami Energy, a Sahara Group Upstream Oil & Gas company through Sahara Group Foundation, to renovate Ologbo Police Station in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of Edo State. The newly Ologbo Police station underwent a comprehensive overhaul of the police station’s infrastructure. Renovation work done includes structural repairs and aesthetical changes to the building, plumbing works and change of sanitary wares. A new office block/building for investigative officers was also constructed, as well as the installation of solar energy system.  According to the company, the transformative makeover of Ologbo Police Station is a reflection of Asharami Energy’s dedication to enhancing public safety and supporting the welfare of the communities in which they operate.  Speaking at the commissioning and handover ceremony, the Director, Sahara Group Foundation, Ejiro Gray, stated that ‘At Sahara Group Foundation, our effort is geared towards helping to create sustainable societies. And with the renovation of the Ologbo Police Station, we are once again demonstrating our commitment to supporting the institutions that protect and serve our society.” Also speaking at the event, the stakeholder and community relations manager, Asharami Energy, Babatomiwa Adesida, said “Asharami Energy recognises the critical role that law enforcement plays in maintaining peace and security within our communities.  And that the renovation of the Ologbo police station underscores the organisation’s values of sustainable development, community empowerment, and social impact”.  In his remarks, an elated Enogie of Ologbo, His Royal Highness, Owenubugie Akenzua, applauded Asharami Energy and Sahara Group Foundation for carrying out this laudable project in Ologbo, adding that “a secure community is the foundation for progress and that the renovation of the Ologbo Police Station will support improved security and peace in the Dukedom”. Also speaking, the Deputy Police Commissioner, Ologbo Police Station, CSP Moses Nkombe, thanked Asharami Energy and the Sahara Group Foundation for the renovated station. The DPO stated that “this will go a long way to enhance operational efficiency and enable the officers to better serve and protect the communities under the station command”.  Quote Security is a critical requirement for the well-being of any community, and we are confident that the project will support the activities of the police, improve security remarkably, and give the good people of Koko the confidence to pursue their dreams Founded on January 22, 1995, THISDAY is published by THISDAY NEWSPAPERS LTD., 35 Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria with offices in 36 states of Nigeria , the Federal Capital Territory and around the world. It is Nigeria’s most authoritative news media available on all platforms for the political, business, professional and diplomatic elite and broader middle classes while serving as the meeting point of new ideas, culture and technology for the aspirationals and millennials. The newspaper is a public trust dedicated to the pursuit of truth and reason covering a range of issues from breaking news to politics, business, the markets, the arts, sports and community to the crossroads of people and society. You can email us at: hello@thisdaylive.com or visit our contact us page.  