COSHOCTON − Reaching health goals with a Christian faith foundation is the subject of a series of seminars in Coshocton County. Jeff Wehr will be the lecturer for the eight Creation Health programs at 6:30 p.m. Tuesdays starting Feb. 28 in the community room of the Three Rivers Fire District, 24199 County Road 621. This is a date change from what was previously announced. Each class, about 45 minutes to an hour, will cover a different topic related to physical emotional, social and spiritual health. Tips will be shared on how to reduce risk of disease and aid in recovery. Wehr stressed while this is a Bible-based program, it's also grounded in holistic science. "It's about understanding our body, how things work and how can we best take care of it," Wehr said. "It's not an isolated approach where we're talking about physical therapy in your wrist or something. We're talking about the whole person and the principals of health that not only govern the body, but the mind." Categories like exercise, nutrition, immunity, the brain and the body one might find in any health class will be covered, Wehr said. He said they also talk about some elements of health people might not think about, like personal relationships. A toxic relationship can negatively impact someone's health and a good relationship can affect it positively. Each seminar is themed after a word from each letter in Creation. C is for creation or the Creator, r is for relationships, e is for exercise, a is for attitude, t is for temperance, i is for immunity, o is for outdoors and n is for nutrition. "Creation Health begins with the perspective that we are wonderfully made, but at the same time there are laws or principals of health," Wehr said. "If we have an exercise program, we'll benefit from it. If we don't have one, we won't receive those benefits. Same with nutrition. It's pretty much a law of action. Everything we do, every thought, everything we eat, affects our bodies." Wehr is the pastor at the Brooklyn Seventh-Day Adventist Church in Cleveland. He previously worked at a lifestyle center in Virginia that was a more intensive program than the Creation Health seminars. He's being brought to town by the Coshocton Seventh-Day Adventist Church. It's the first time for Creation Health to be taught in Coshocton, but Wehr has been speaking at the Coshocton church since the fall. The local church has also been offering a diabetes seminar. He said a stop smoking clinic and cooking classes could be down the road. "It's becoming more popular. We're not the only ones who put forth lifestyle principals that help people physically, emotionally and spiritually," Wehr said of the church's efforts. "There's a lot of science behind this and more is increasingly coming out. It's good to know the science behind our bodies and how we can best take care of it." For more information or registration, call 330-257-8820 or 740-502-4105. Leonard Hayhurst is a community content coordinator and general news reporter for the Coshocton Tribune with close to 15 years of local journalism experience and multiple awards from the Ohio Associated Press. He can be reached at 740-295-3417 or llhayhur@coshoctontribune.com. Follow him on Twitter at @llhayhurst. This article originally appeared on Coshocton Tribune: Creation Health offers holistic, faith-based approach to wellness New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.