The alleyways have been described as 'anti-social behaviour hotspots' Never miss a crime story with our free email updates We have more newsletters Never miss a crime story with our free email updates We have more newsletters Gates have been locked to block access to three alleyways in Nottinghamshire, in a move hoped to 'improve lives' Following a public consultation earlier this year, access has been blocked to three alleys on the Coxmoor Estate in Kirkby in Ashfield. The gates were installed under a Public Spaces Protection Order after residents in the area said they were in favour of restricting access to the alleyways between Spruce Grove and Beacon Drive, adjacent to Rosewood Drive, and between Spruce Grove and Poplar Avenue. Any person found entering the alleyways will receive a Fixed Penalty Notice fine of £100. Robert Docherty, Executive Director of Place at Ashfield District Council said “We know that by gating these alleyways will genuinely improve the lives of the residents who live near these anti-social behaviour hotspots. The Council is committed to making a difference to feelings of safety in Ashfield and the gating orders are just one of the many ways that we are acting on this commitment.” Is the government doing enough to help with the cost of living? Let us know Antonio Taylor, Community Safety Manager of Ashfield District Council, added: "PSPOs are an important instrument to deal with persistent issues that are damaging our communities and to ensure our public spaces can be enjoyed by all free from anti-social behaviour. The Safer Streets Fund has allowed us to carry out a raft of safety improvements across Kirkby, and the whole district, and we will continue to improve Ashfield for residents, businesses, and visitors.” The gates were installed as part of the Safer Streets Fund, which has also seen the area receive new ANPR cameras, CCTV cameras, upgraded street lighting, extra police and Community Safety patrols. It has also created a shop radio scheme and Safe Spaces in businesses in the town centre. Police and Crime Commissioner Caroline Henry said: “Neighbourhood crime and antisocial behaviour are issues that can have a real impact on people’s quality of life and this partnership action shows that we will work together to support local residents. I’m delighted to see the Safer Streets projects coming to fruition and having an impact.  "It also follows the recent announcement that Nottinghamshire has been chosen as one of 16 Police and Crime Commissioner areas to receive significant funding to trial a new ‘immediate justice’ scheme, where those found committing antisocial behaviour will be made to repair the damage they inflicted on victims and communities. This will allow us to further support residents in Ashfield, and the wider Nottinghamshire area, with even more swift action.” READ NEXT: Nottinghamshire shop to close after 22 years due to cost hike S Club 7 star Paul Cattermole's cause of death confirmed after tragic passing Nottinghamshire pub owner announces plans for exclusive nightclub Images show extent of HGV fire that closed A1 for hours Nottinghamshire shop to close after 22 years due to cost hike 