


Rates of diabetes in younger adults are rising globally -- and it could be shortening life spans.

A diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes at age 30 can cut life expectancy by up to 14 years, according to findings from a new study. Even a diagnosis at age 50 can shorten life expectancy by six years.

"Type 2 diabetes used to be seen as a disease that affected older adults, but we're increasingly seeing people diagnosed earlier in life. As we've shown, this means they are at risk of a much shorter life expectancy than they would otherwise have," said study author Emanuele Di Angelantonio. He is a professor of clinical epidemiology at the University of Cambridge's Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Heart and Lung Research Institute (VPD-HLRI) in the United Kingdom.

Advertisement
For the new study, scientists at the universities of Cambridge and Glasgow, and elsewhere, examined data from two major international studies -- the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration and the UK Biobank -- for 1.5 million individuals.

Every decade of earlier diagnosis was linked to roughly four years of reduced life expectancy, the investigators found.
Advertisement
In U.S. population data, people diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes at 30, 40 and 50 years of age died on average about 14, 10 and six years earlier, respectively, than those without the condition.
Related
Drinking dark tea could be key to balancing blood sugar levels, research suggests
Type 1 diabetes diagnosed after age 30 for many U.S. adults
Staying up late may raise risk of diabetes
Women's estimates were worse than the men's. Women died 16, 11 and seven years earlier than men at 14, nine and five years earlier.
The findings were similar for people in the United Kingdom.
"Type 2 diabetes can be prevented if those at greatest risk can be identified and offered support - whether that's to make changes to their behavior or to provide medication to lower their risk," Stephen Kaptoge, a principal research associate at VPD-HLRI, said in a University of Cambridge news release.
"But there are also structural changes that we as a society should be pursuing, including relating to food manufacturing, changes to the built environment to encourage more physical activity, and so on," Kaptoge added.
"Given the impact Type 2 diabetes will have on people's lives, preventing -- or at least delaying the onset -- of the condition should be an urgent priority," he said.
The study attributes the rise in diabetes cases to increasing levels of obesity, sedentary behavior and poor diet. About 537 million adults were estimated to have diabetes worldwide in 2021.
Advertisement
Having this disease increases an individual's risk for such complications as heart attack and stroke, kidney problems and cancer.
Most of the life expectancy reduction the investigators saw in the study was due to deaths related to heart attack, stroke and aneurysms. Cancer was another contributor.
"Our findings support the idea that the younger an individual is when they develop Type 2 diabetes, the more damage their body accumulates from its impaired metabolism," said Naveed Sattar, a professor/honorary consultant at the Institute of Cardiovascular Medical Sciences at the University of Glasgow, in Scotland.
"But the findings also suggest that early detection of diabetes by screening followed by intensive glucose management could help prevent long-term complications from the condition," Sattar stressed.
The study findings were published in the October issue of The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology.
More information

The American Diabetes Association has more on Type 2 diabetes.
Copyright © 2023 HealthDay. All rights reserved.






Latest Headlines







Health News // 1 hour ago
HHS launches awareness campaign on viruses, vaccines
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Health and Human Services announced a national campaign on Monday to increase public awareness of common respiratory viruses and available vaccines.










Health News // 3 hours ago
Study: Brain implant helps manage Parkinson's symptoms
  A brain implant guided by AI could provide around-the-clock personalized care for people with Parkinson's disease, a new study suggests.










Health News // 3 hours ago
Human gut might be source of powerful new antibiotics
  The crowded microbial space of the human gut is revealing potential routes to new antibiotics, scientists report.










Health News // 3 hours ago
Study: Scrolling through online videos increases boredom
  Watching short snippets of videos or fast-forwarding through them makes people more bored rather than less, a new study shows.










Health News // 7 hours ago
Back-to-school prep should include dental checkup
  As kids head back to school this fall, there is probably one item many parents haven't thought to put on the to-do list: dental checkups.










Health News // 2 days ago
Gaza war elevates danger of a polio outbreak
 Aug. 17 (UPI) -- The war in Gaza has prevented Hamas from vaccinating local children against the disease as displaced Palestinians crowd into tent encampments 10 months after Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7.










Health News // 2 days ago
Perdue Foods recalls over 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken
 Aug. 17 (UPI) -- Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken products over fears of contamination.










Health News // 2 days ago
High consumption of coffee could put your heart at risk, study finds
 NEW YORK, Aug. 17 (UPI) -- An Indian study indicates that drinking more than 400 milligrams of caffeine daily on most days of the week could raise otherwise healthy people's risk for cardiovascular disease.










Health News // 2 days ago
FDA approves first at-home, over-the-counter test for syphilis
 Aug. 16 (UPI) -- The Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved the first over-the-counter, at-home test for syphilis in response to surging levels of the sexually transmitted disease nationwide.










Health News // 3 days ago
HHS urges blood culture vial conservation amid shortage
 Aug. 16 (UPI) -- U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra Friday urged health care providers to conserve blood culture media bottles and said HHS is taking action to resolve the vial shortage as quickly as possible.






 A diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes at age 30 can cut life expectancy by up to 14 years, according to findings from a new study. Even a diagnosis at age 50 can shorten life expectancy by six years.
 "Type 2 diabetes used to be seen as a disease that affected older adults, but we're increasingly seeing people diagnosed earlier in life. As we've shown, this means they are at risk of a much shorter life expectancy than they would otherwise have," said study author Emanuele Di Angelantonio. He is a professor of clinical epidemiology at the University of Cambridge's Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Heart and Lung Research Institute (VPD-HLRI) in the United Kingdom.

Advertisement Every decade of earlier diagnosis was linked to roughly four years of reduced life expectancy, the investigators found.
Advertisement In U.S. population data, people diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes at 30, 40 and 50 years of age died on average about 14, 10 and six years earlier, respectively, than those without the condition.
Related
Drinking dark tea could be key to balancing blood sugar levels, research suggests
Type 1 diabetes diagnosed after age 30 for many U.S. adults
Staying up late may raise risk of diabetes Women's estimates were worse than the men's. Women died 16, 11 and seven years earlier than men at 14, nine and five years earlier. The findings were similar for people in the United Kingdom. "Type 2 diabetes can be prevented if those at greatest risk can be identified and offered support - whether that's to make changes to their behavior or to provide medication to lower their risk," Stephen Kaptoge, a principal research associate at VPD-HLRI, said in a University of Cambridge news release. "But there are also structural changes that we as a society should be pursuing, including relating to food manufacturing, changes to the built environment to encourage more physical activity, and so on," Kaptoge added. "Given the impact Type 2 diabetes will have on people's lives, preventing -- or at least delaying the onset -- of the condition should be an urgent priority," he said. The study attributes the rise in diabetes cases to increasing levels of obesity, sedentary behavior and poor diet. About 537 million adults were estimated to have diabetes worldwide in 2021.
Advertisement Having this disease increases an individual's risk for such complications as heart attack and stroke, kidney problems and cancer. Most of the life expectancy reduction the investigators saw in the study was due to deaths related to heart attack, stroke and aneurysms. Cancer was another contributor. "Our findings support the idea that the younger an individual is when they develop Type 2 diabetes, the more damage their body accumulates from its impaired metabolism," said Naveed Sattar, a professor/honorary consultant at the Institute of Cardiovascular Medical Sciences at the University of Glasgow, in Scotland. "But the findings also suggest that early detection of diabetes by screening followed by intensive glucose management could help prevent long-term complications from the condition," Sattar stressed. The study findings were published in the October issue of The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology. More information
 The American Diabetes Association has more on Type 2 diabetes. Copyright © 2023 HealthDay. All rights reserved. 