
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Purple is shaking up its board in an agreement with activist investor Coliseum Capital Management. In addition to Zepf leaving the board, Pano Anthos has also resigned. Additions to the board will include Hoby Darling, Carter Pate and Erika Serow. Scott Peterson, a significant stockholder, is slated to replace current member Dawn Zier at the 2023 annual meeting. Zier previously said she intended to not stand for reelection. Current Purple board member and Lead Independent Director Gary DiCamillo commented on the agreement with Coliseum: “We are pleased to reach this agreement with Coliseum and share its enthusiasm in positioning the company to fully focus on its business and generating value on behalf of all stakeholders.” Purple, known for creating the “World's First No Pressure Mattress,” has been undergoing changes to its strategy and marketing approach since seeing its overall business decline as the COVID-19 pandemic receded and people were no longer spending as much on home goods. Under the direction of current CEO Robert DeMartini, Purple is seeking to gain market share in the premium end of the mattress business. Toward that end the company acquired Intellibed last September and has renamed the collection Purple Luxe. Purple now offers consumers a range of mattresses priced from $1,000 to $7,500.  DeMartini has publicly talked about Purple’s need to evolve and mature, by starting to sell the health and wellness benefits of a good night’s sleep. “Throughout his first 16 months as CEO, Rob has demonstrated strong command for the business,” Gray said in a statement, “inspiring Coliseum to invest meaningfully in support of the transformative vision he has established, the team he is building, and the key strategic and operating priorities he has pursued.”  In March, Purple reported that fourth quarter revenue fell 22.2%. For the full year in 2022, the company reported net revenue fell 20.7% to $575.7 million, while operating loss grew 72.4% to $40.3 million. Net loss was $89.9 million for the year, down from a profit of $3.9 million the prior year. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts In April alone, L’Occitane sold Grown Alchemist, Mented Cosmetics was acquired by a private equity firm and Billy Reid snapped up Knot Standard’s DTC business. The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts In April alone, L’Occitane sold Grown Alchemist, Mented Cosmetics was acquired by a private equity firm and Billy Reid snapped up Knot Standard’s DTC business. The past year was riddled with bankruptcies, layoffs and a handful of public debuts. What does this next year have in store for the industry? The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines