Helping you make the most out of your money Helping you make the most out of your money Including the new tax-free allowance for the year    |Editor-at-large Updated  June 4, 2024 Tax treatment depends on your individual circumstances and may be subject to future change.
 Due to the potential for losses, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) considers this investment to be high risk. If you are interested in learning more about how to protect yourself, visit the FCA’s website  here For further information about cryptoassets, visit the FCA’s website  here Capital gains tax is the amount you pay on any profit you make when you sell an asset, such as a second home or shares. In this article we explain how it works in more detail and what the threshold is for the 2024/25 tax year.  In the 2023/24 financial year, the government earned approximately £15.4bn from capital gains tax. This is down from 2022/23 when it raised £16.9bn, the highest amount since 2004. It’s a form of revenue for the government which could rise further, especially as we have seen the government cut the threshold once again for this tax year. Below we explore: Read more: How to check your tax code Capital gains tax (CGT) is a tax on the profit you make when you sell an asset that has increased in value during the time that you owned it.  You might see tax experts refer to “disposing” of an asset, which is just the technical term that includes: Whether you have to pay CGT depends on a number of factors. Not all assets incur capital gains tax.  You are unlikely to pay CGT on: But you might need to pay capital gains tax on: For a full list visit the HMRC website.  Here is an example of how you would work out the chargeable gain: Even if you didn’t buy the shares but had them gifted to you by a grandparent or inherited it from a great grandparent, you still have to pay capital gains tax on the price change between what they were worth when they came into your possession and when you sell them. If you’re thinking about investing, then now could be a good time to do so with Wealthify: your easy-to-use, online saving and investing service. As a Times Money Mentor reader, Wealthify are offering zero management fees (usually 0.6%) for new customers who open any one of their investment products, including Isas, Junior Isas, Pensions and General Investment Accounts. To be eligible, you’ll need to use the link below. Learn more and apply T&Cs apply. Capital at risk. The tax treatment of your investment will depend on your individual circumstances and may change in the future. Wealthify is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. There are two different rates of capital gains tax.  What you pay depends on: Note: your taxable gain will be added to your taxable income, so you could be pushed into a higher tax band. The table below shows the different rates of capital gains tax you have to pay in the current tax year: If the executors of a will sell assets, they may have to pay capital gains tax if those assets have gone up in value since the time of death.  They can use the tax-free allowance but then pay tax at 20% for most disposals and 24% on residential property. Paying for your adult kids to go on a family holiday with you might help persuade them to come. But is it fairer to make them cough up? Read more Everyone is entitled to the capital gains allowance of £3,000 for the current tax year 2024/25. This is down from £6,000 in the 2023/24 tax year. When you sell an asset, profit below this threshold is free from capital gains tax. Due to the reduction, in April 2024, more than a quarter of a million more individuals and trusts are now paying capital gains tax for the first time. In the following examples, if the sale of shares was the only gain you made in the tax year, your CGT would be worked out: In previous tax years, your capital gains bill would have been: If you don’t make full use of your annual capital gains tax-free allowance in a given tax year, you can’t carry it forward to the next. Read more: Why more savers are investing in venture capital trusts What might you have to pay capital gains tax on? Here are some assets you might need to pay CGT on: You may need to pay capital gains tax on shares or other investments if you made a profit of more than the allowance, or have exceeded the allowance through selling other assets in the same tax year. The profit or “gain” is the difference between what you paid for your shares and how much you sold them for. You can deduct certain costs, such as fees associated with buying and selling shares. We have a guide explaining how shares are taxed. Find out more here on the government’s official website.  You may have to pay capital gains tax if you sell a personal possession for £3,000 or more than you bought it for. This could include jewellery, artwork, antiques, coins and stamps. Again, you can deduct costs relating to the sale – for example, advertising fees or costs to improve your possession (but not including repairs). The tax rules for personal possessions are complicated. The government website explains the rules in more detail. Read more: Can a trust reduce inheritance tax? Usually, you don’t immediately pay capital gains tax on anything you inherit. But you might need to pay income tax on profit you later earn from that inheritance.  For example, dividend income you receive from inherited shares or income from a rental property. Meanwhile you may have to pay capital gains tax if you later sell what you inherited. Capital gains tax may be applied if the value has risen since the person died, and the gain is above the allowance (now £3,000 per person for the 2024/25 tax year, but it was £6,000 for the 2023/24 tax year). You don’t normally face a capital gains tax bill if you sell a property that’s your main residence.  Your property won’t be subject to capital gains tax provided you satisfy all of these conditions: Note: married couples and civil partners can only count one property as their main home at any one time. You will be liable for capital gains tax if you are selling the property that you: If you have a rental property which was your main home at some point since you owned it, you might be able to benefit from something called “private residence relief”.  You will not have to pay capital gains tax on the months when the property was your main home. This effectively reduces the amount of the profit that you are taxed on. If you want to calculate how much capital gains tax you will need to pay, enter the dates and figures into HMRC’s calculator. Since April 6, 2020, anyone who makes a taxable capital gain from property has to pay the tax within 30 days of completion of the sale of the property.  This change reduced the amount of time required to report and pay capital gains tax from 22 months to under one month. You have to submit a “residential property return” and make a payment on account.  Remember: Not all assets incur capital gains tax.  For example: If you transfer an asset to your spouse or civil partner, you won’t have to pay capital gains tax.  However, bear in mind that if your partner sells it later on, their capital gains are taxed on the price you originally paid, not the value when you transferred it to them.  To figure out what you need to pay in capital gains tax, you need to: Here are a few examples: You have made a £13,600 profit from selling shares: Find out more here about how shares are taxed. You sell a buy-to-let flat for £250,000 which you originally bought for £150,000: If you have made a profit from both property and other assets, you can use your tax-free allowance against the gains from property, as these would be charged at the highest rate. It can be fiddly working it all out: HMRC has a tax calculator to help you. You need to report taxable gains on your tax return and then pay what you owe. Anyone who hasn’t filled in a tax return previously will have to register with HMRC first. Give yourself some time to do this as it can take a few weeks to get on the system. NOTE: the time allowed to pay the first instalment of CGT after selling a property has reduced from 22 months to just 30 days. Before you report your capital gains, you will need: If you normally complete a tax return, but are thinking of using the “real time” service, note that you’ll still have to report your gains anyway through the self-assessment system.   Read more: Ten ways to cut your tax bill There are a number of legitimate ways to reduce your tax burden: If you need to sell two assets, spread the sales over two tax years. For example, say you sold a buy-to-let flat in the current tax year, don’t sell a share-holding until next year. This would allow you to benefit from two tax-free thresholds, which could save you thousands of pounds. You are exempt from capital gains tax when gifting of assets between spouses or civil partners.  There are benefits of doing this: NOTE: your partner’s gain is worked out on the profit since you bought the asset, not the value when it was transferred to them. You can deduct some expenses from your taxable gain, such as the cost of buying and selling. This includes: Remember that an “improvement” is doesn’t include routine decorating or replacing a broken shower.  Have you made a loss rather than a gain? You can deduct “allowable losses” from any gains made in the same tax year.  You can also deduct unused losses from previous years if your total gain is still above the tax-free allowance. You don’t have to report losses straightaway, you can claim up to four years after the end of the tax year in which you disposed of the asset. BUT you can’t claim losses against assets that you give or sell to your spouse. This is because you don’t normally pay CGT on these anyway. This applies when you dispose of shares in all or part of your business, resulting in a reduced 10% tax rate and is irrespective of the income tax you pay.  You can use it as many times as you like and receive up to £1m of tax relief during your lifetime. To claim it, you will need to fill in a self-assessment tax return. Any gains made inside an Isa are free from capital gains tax.  You can invest up to £20,000 in Isas in 2023-24, whether that is in cash, stocks and shares, or both.  You don’t have to worry about capital gains tax if the investments in your pension make a profit either. If you’re shopping for a top-rated product, we list the best stocks and shares Isas and the best ready-made personal pensions. Some of the products promoted are from our affiliate partners from whom we receive compensation. While we aim to feature some of the best products available, we cannot review every product on the market. Learn what a Conservative win in the July general election might mean for you and your money, from how much tax you pay to how your pension will be dealt with. The Conservative Party has been in power for the past 14 years, but its manifesto firms up what a Conservative win might mean for […] MPs passed the Tobacco and Vapes Bill at its second reading in April. If it goes on to become law in the next parliament, it means anyone turning 15 from this year would be banned from buying cigarettes. The bill also aims to make vapes less appealing to children. The Tobacco and Vapes Bill cleared […] In his Autumn Statement, Chancellor Jeremy Hunt promised to “reject big government, high spending and high tax” and said he wanted to “support families in difficulty”. A number of weeks-long rumours on inheritance tax, stamp duty and income tax reform came to nothing, while a big cut to National Insurance for 29 million UK workers […] Times Money Mentor shows you how in September with its free four-week newsletter course. Sign up now for a richer retirement. When you subscribe, you will also receive our weekly newsletter. By entering your details, you agree these will be used according to our privacy policy. You can unsubscribe, although if you do you will stop receiving both newsletters. Look out for the first email on 3 September. You'll also receive our regular weekly round-up of money matters. Times Money Mentor shows you how in September with its free four-week newsletter course. Sign up now for a richer retirement. When you subscribe, you will also receive our weekly newsletter. By entering your details, you agree these will be used according to our privacy policy. You can unsubscribe, although if you do you will stop receiving both newsletters. Look out for the first email on 3 September. You'll also receive our regular weekly round-up of money matters. Times Money Mentor is a trading name of News Financial Services Limited, which is an appointed representative of Richdale Brokers & Financial Services Ltd which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (FRN: 992057). In this capacity we are permitted to act as a credit-broker, not a lender. We have taken reasonable steps to ensure that any information provided by Times Money Mentor is accurate at the time of publishing. We do not provide any personal advice on any matter. Should you wish to raise any issue or concern, please contact us via care@timesmoneymentor.co.uk Times Money Mentor has been created in conjunction by The Times and The Sunday Times with the aim of empowering our readers to make better financial decisions for themselves. We do this by giving you tools and information you need to understand the options available. We do not make, nor do we seek to make, any personal recommendations on any matter. Where we give providers or products a customer experience rating or a product rating, these are compiled against an objective criteria, using information which has been collected by our partners Defaqto and Savings Champion. In some cases, we may provide links where you may, if you choose, purchase a product from a regulated provider with whom we have a commercial relationship. If you do purchase a product using a link, we will receive a payment. This will help us to support the content of this website and to continue to invest in our award-winning journalism. News Financial Services Limited (Company Number 05891402) registered office 1 London Bridge Street. London SEl 9GF.