An innovative new nonprofit that will transform the system by which NYC residents with housing subsidies source and rent available housing. Anthos|Home will be a game-changer for New Yorkers who are unhoused or at risk of homelessness—and for the systems that serve them.  Mission: To move New Yorkers who are unhoused or at risk of homelessness—and who have housing vouchers—into safe, sustainable housing by quickly connecting them to available units with quality landlords.  Vision: An innovative system to simplify the housing voucher process—transforming New York City’s homelessness bureaucracy, increasing the supply of quality rental units available for tenants with vouchers, and setting people up for success in securing and retaining stable housing via tenancy support services to renters and landlords.  Impact: Within three years, Anthos|Home will have proved that our model works in New York City, significantly improving the experiences and outcomes of landlords and households utilizing housing subsidies to rent apartments. We will achieve the following high-level outcomes:  ● Efficiency: The time between issuance of vouchers and apartment move-in will decrease, reducing the impact and duration of homelessness via seamless transition into housing.  ● Increased Housing Options: More units will be added to the system, and those landlords will more quickly fill vacancies due to the centralized pool of available rental units, as well as tenancy supports.  ● Better Housing Retention: Households will experience greater housing retention due to better matching of households to units, tenancy supports, and mediation services.  Anthos|Home is modeled on exemplary housing clearinghouse nonprofits, particularly the nationally recognized Flexible Housing Subsidy Pool model operationalized by Brilliant Corners in California. This model centralizes the rental subsidy application, unit search and approval, and move-in processes—while providing essential funding through a flexible funding pool. This model coordinates, streamlines, and expedites administrative processes that are currently siloed.  NYC’s housing and social service leaders have long pressed for a unified system for utilizing housing vouchers. As the homelessness crisis grows, and more vouchers flood the market, it is clear that our excessively fragmented voucher system is woefully inadequate. The City’s Housing Blueprint (June 2022) recognizes this, establishing the goal of streamlining systems to support tenants and landlords. Anthos|Home will be instrumental in achieving this transformational goal.  We have garnered strong support from a spectrum of stakeholders. In collaboration with NYC government partners, Anthos|Home will initially work with families involved in child welfare services; youth who have aged out of foster care; and/or households with special medical needs. We’ll keep building from there, toward a structure that can be used system-wide to house voucher-holders far more effectively— dramatically improving the housing prospects of the more than 10,000 New Yorkers per year who receive NYC’s “City FHEPS” vouchers, federal Section 8 vouchers and other housing subsidies.   An innovative new nonprofit that will transform the system by which NYC residents with housing subsidies source and rent available housing. Anthos|Home will be a game-changer for New Yorkers who are unhoused or at risk of homelessness—and for the systems that serve them.  Mission: To move New Yorkers who are unhoused or at risk of homelessness—and who have housing vouchers—into safe, sustainable housing by quickly connecting them to available units with quality landlords.  Vision: An innovative system to simplify the housing voucher process—transforming New York City’s homelessness bureaucracy, increasing the supply of quality rental units available for tenants with vouchers, and setting people up for success in securing and retaining stable housing via tenancy support services to renters and landlords.  Impact: Within three years, Anthos|Home will have proved that our model works in New York City, significantly improving the experiences and… Working with others, in a spirit of generosity and mutual respect, we want to help build a world where all people can lead free and dignified lives.