The Delhi Police have busted an international fake call centre by arresting six people who allegedly cheated foreign nationals on the pretext of booking flight tickets. The police said Sunday the accused—Muddhlu, Maghimai Leslee, 35, Aman Setia, 24, John Benedict, 37, Jaison Joseph, 24, and Vicky John, 32—started a call centre from a shop in Munirka and cheated only foreign nationals. They used the Anydesk application and Zoiper to make encrypted calls and secure their digital footprints. In February this year, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had informed law enforcement agencies in India of such call centres in Delhi. Many US citizens have lost thousands of dollars due to such scams. The police said they received a tip-off last week about the call centre at Laxman Plaza in Munirka and sent a team of Special Staff officers to the spot. “There was a shop in the basement from where we found the six persons. They were all talking to foreigners on a Zoiper app. When we asked them about the operations, they gave misleading statements and were arrested” said an officer. During their investigation, the police found that the accused had a huge database of international numbers. They cheated people on the pretext of providing flight tickets at heavy discounts. “They would persuade and motivate them (victims) to buy flight tickets from their platforms on the pretext of heavy discounts available. When the customers agreed, they were directed to share their card details and share OTPs received. The accused would use the OTP to gain access and deduct money,” added the officer. Further investigation led the police to several high-end software—Zoiper, Viber, and Anydesk—and different VPNs being used to operate the fake call centre. The police said the accused are being interrogated about the scam and the money they cheated. More than 13 devices have been seized and are being analysed for evidence, they added. Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates Italian climatologist Luca Mercalli suggests that global warming may have caused a freak storm that led to the sinking of a British yacht off the coast of Sicily, resulting in one death and six missing people. He believes that rising sea temperatures are making water spouts and downbursts more frequent in Italy, and warns that climate-related disasters will continue to worsen in the country.  