Antivirus provider Kaspersky uncovers a sophisticated piece of 'StripedFly' malware camouflaged
as a cryptocurrency miner that's been targeting PCs for more than five years. I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. A powerful piece of malware has been disguising itself as a trivial cryptocurrency miner to help it evade detection for more than five years, according to antivirus provider Kaspersky.  This so-called “StripedFly” malware has infected over 1 million Windows and Linux computers around the globe since 2016, Kaspersky says in a report released today. The company’s security researchers began investigating the threat last year when they noticed Kaspersky’s antivirus products flagging two detections in WINNIT.exe, which helps the Windows OS start up. The detections were then traced to StripedFly, which was originally classified as a cryptocurrency miner. But upon further examination, Kaspersky’s researchers noticed the miner is merely one component of a far more complex malware that adopts techniques believed to have come from the US National Security Agency.  Specifically, StripedFly incorporated a version of EternalBlue, the notorious NSA-developed exploit that was later leaked and used in the WannaCry ransomware attack to infect hundreds of thousands of Windows machines back in 2017.   According to Kaspersky, StripedFly uses its own custom EternalBlue attack to infiltrate unpatched Windows systems and quietly spread across a victim’s network, including to Linux machines. The malware can then harvest sensitive data from infected computers, such as login credentials and personal data. “Furthermore, the malware can capture screenshots on the victim's device without detection, gain significant control over the machine, and even record microphone input,” the company’s security researchers added.  To evade detection, the creators behind StripedFly settled on a novel method by adding a cryptocurrency mining module to prevent antivirus systems from discovering the malware’s full capabilities. "Periodically, the malware functionality within the main module monitors the puppet mining process and restarts it if necessary,” Kaspersky added. “It also dutifully reports hash rate, work time, discovered nonces, and error statistics to the C2 server.” It's unclear who developed StripedFly. Although the malware contains an attack that originated from the NSA, the agency’s EternalBlue exploit was leaked to the public in April 2017 through a mysterious group known as the “Shadow Brokers.”  A year earlier, prior to the leak, suspected Chinese hackers were also spotted using the EternalBlue exploit as well. Meanwhile, Kaspersky notes the first detection of StripedFly goes back to April 9, 2016.  On top of all this, a version of StripedFly was used in ransomware attack called ThunderCrypt, making the ultimate aim of the malware less clear.  But ultimately, it looks like the malware achieved its aims. Although Microsoft released a patch for EternalBlue back in March 2017, many Windows systems failed to install it, enabling StripedFly to take advantage.  “Created quite some time ago, StripedFly has undoubtedly fulfilled its intended purpose by successfully evading detection over the years,” Kaspersky added. “Many high-profile and sophisticated malicious software have been investigated, but this one stands out and it truly deserves attention and recognition.” Sign up for SecurityWatch newsletter for our top privacy and security stories delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.