 Founded in 1888, Texas Pacific Land Trust is among the largest landowners in Texas. Its revenue streams consist of oil and gas royalties, easements, commercial leases, material sales and land sales. Texas Pacific Land Trust also provides water services such as water sourcing, water treatment, infrastructure development, water disposal and water tracking. The oil stock has a market cap of $3.9 billion and has an EPS of 25.83. It has an annual dividend yield of $10 per share. Texas Pacific Land Trust trades more than 32,500 shares per day. It generated revenue of $490 million in 2019. TotalEnergies is an integrated oil and gas company that explores for, produces, and refines oil around the world. In 2020, it produced 1.5 million barrels of liquids and 7.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day. At year-end 2020, reserves stood at 12.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent, 43% of which are liquids. The company operates refineries with capacity of nearly 2.0 million barrels a day, primarily in Europe, distributes refined products in 65 countries, and manufactures commodity and specialty chemicals. It also holds a 19% interest in Russian oil company Novatek. EOG Resources is an oil and gas producer with acreage in several U.S. shale plays, including the Permian Basin, the Eagle Ford, and the Bakken. At the end of 2020, it reported net proved reserves of 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent. Net production averaged 754 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2020 at a ratio of 72% oil and natural gas liquids and 28% natural gas. Baker Hughes in its current form originated in 2017 from the merger of Baker Hughes with GE Oil & Gas. Baker Hughes’ history of oilfield innovation stretches back over a century, and with the combination with GE, the company now can offer the full spectrum of services to oil and gas companies, from upstream to downstream. Africa Oil Corp is an international oil and gas exploration company. It is an exploration stage enterprise that participates in oil and gas projects located in emerging markets, in sub-Saharan Africa. The company operates in the business segment of international oil and gas exploration, and geographically, it operates in Kenya and Ethiopia. Devon Energy, based in Oklahoma City, is one of the largest independent exploration and production companies in North America. The firm’s asset base is spread throughout onshore North America and includes exposure to the Delaware, STACK, Eagle Ford, Powder River Basin, and Bakken plays. At year-end 2021, Devon’s proved reserves totaled 1.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent, and net production that year was 572 thousand boe/d, of which oil and natural gas liquids made up 74% of production, with natural gas accounting for the remainder. Enbridge owns extensive midstream assets that transport hydrocarbons across the U.S. and Canada. Its pipeline network consists of the Canadian Mainline system, regional oil sands pipelines, and natural gas pipelines. The company also owns and operates a regulated natural gas utility and Canada’s largest natural gas distribution company. Finally, the firm has a small renewables portfolio primarily focused on onshore and offshore wind projects. Enterprise Products Partners is a master limited partnership that transports and processes natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined products and petrochemicals. It is one of the largest midstream companies, with operations servicing most producing regions in the Lower 48 states. Enterprise is particularly dominant in the NGL market and is one of the few MLPs that provide midstream services across the full hydrocarbon value chain. Oil has made headlines during this coronavirus crisis, although not for reasons investors want to see. In addition to issues caused by international events, especially those that impede the safe transport of natural resources. Even in a perfect work, this sector can be quite volatile as supply and demand are constantly shifting. That's why it's important to learn all you can about oil assets, how they can impact your portfolio and the manner in which petroleum maintains hold on the financial sector. Despite any problems that might arise, remember that the oil market tends to be a safe place to hold assets for long periods of time. There is quite a lot of growth potential in this sector, and you should keep your eye on the oil industry even as renewable energy becomes a powerful force worldwide. Oil companies like ExxonMobil and BP are some of the oldest and largest publicly-traded firms in the petroleum industry, but there are many more with which you must contend as they handle crude oil and a range of petroleum products.  Despite environmental headwinds, the oil and gas industry is still a multi-trillion dollar business composed of several different subsectors and business models, despite popular assumptions about both the price of oil and the function of the industry. Oil companies are split into 3 distinct groups based on where they function in the pipeline. The 3 different groups are: Many of the largest oil companies like ExxonMobil are known as integrated oil producers since they have branches involved in upstream, midstream and downstream operations, meaning that their stock price can be impacted by OPEC restrictions, current events everywhere from Oklahoma to South America and the Middle East and/or the rise and decline of demand (for example, the summer travel season in America.) When buying oil companies, be sure to understand what sector of the industry they reside in. Plus, the sector of the industry where the company works changes the way they operate and adjust to market shifts. For example, a smaller downstream company might have more room to adjust to a shifting market where a larger midstream company might not. Carefully considering your options and monitoring their performance is the best way to keep your portfolio in good condition. Before investing in any oil stocks, you need to find the right brokerage account for your investments, even if you have your finger on the pulse of crude oil prices. Most major online discount brokers have access to the oil company shares you’re looking for (along with other firms in the energy sector), but beware of fees and commissions. Almost all brokers are commission-free for stocks and ETFs now, and most require no minimums to open an account. Paying a flat fee on every trade is a thing of the past — if your current broker isn’t commission-free, consider finding a new one. Claim Exclusive Offers  Aside from “what to look for in an oil asset”, you need to know what to consider as you invest in the broader oil industry. Be on the lookout for: There’s no sugarcoating this — oil can be a tough investment. Prices keep fluctuate often and there's pressure on the industry from both short-term and long-term headwinds. Renewable energy was gaining traction before the crisis hit and while cheap oil may boost demand once the world gets back to normal, it becomes a tougher and tougher industry to navigate, especially for capital intensive operations in the Upstream sector.  However, it's hard to resist buying quality companies when prices reach historic lows like these. The price of crude oil won’t stay low or high forever, but you can be sure that the price of a barrel is trending up over the long term. Nation worldwide don’t want to cut into their emergency reserves, and you cannot expect a massive dividend yield all the time when the market fluctuates as it does. Oil is a finicky industry - be sure to do your homework before investing in a sector facing unprecedented uncertainty. Oil has long been a store of wealth as its price has continued to rise over time. However, all investments come with risk, and you should research each oil stock you choose prior to trading. No, Oil stocks can represent R&D, refining, sales, lateral oil products and many more segments of the industry. Yes. You can diversify your portfolio with oil stocks and even diversify amongst other oil stocks to protect yourself that much more. Continue reading: BEST OIL PENNY STOCKS Dan Schmidt is a finance writer passionate about helping readers understand how assets and markets work. He has over six years of writing experience, focused on stocks. His work has been published by Vanguard, Capital One, PenFed Credit Union, MarketBeat, and Fora Financial. Dan lives in Bucks County, PA with his wife and enjoys summers at Citizens Bank Park cheering on the Phillies.