Leading provider of K-12 digital curriculum, assessments, and services leverages Conga solutions to tackle sales cycle from every angle BROOMFIELD, Colo., March 21, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Conga, the global leader in Revenue Lifecycle Management solutions, has partnered with Edmentum, a global education leader in K-12 learning technology solutions, to streamline its contract management processes with a unified, end-to-end solution to simplify and accelerate the sales cycle. Edmentum is the leading provider of K-12 digital curriculum, assessments, and services to 43,000 schools in all 50 states and 100 countries worldwide. Edmentum's customer base largely includes schools and districts with many business transactions for these customers consisting of purchase orders (PO) and contracts. Edmentum previously faced cumbersome processes with order forms and POs, causing delays in time-to-close for the sales teams and more manual work for operations. Edmentum's legal team also sought an improved process for signing order forms and the consolidation of saved vendor contracts. Overall, the organization lacked a cross-department solution to unify and streamline its processes, leading to more steps to complete an order, resulting in a longer time-to-close. Edmentum also recognized an opportunity to replace manual processes across teams to further increase efficiencies. For example, once orders closed, the sales team couldn't easily generate list views and reports to show tracking against quotas within Salesforce, which Edmentum uses as its main customer relationship management (CRM) tool. Edmentum sought a contract management system within Salesforce to simplify and accelerate the sales cycle, while eliminating manual and time-consuming tasks. Edmentum implemented the following Conga solutions in a phased approach: "Our customers are delighted with the new process offered through Conga Sign. The fact that they can simply sign and send contracts electronically, removing the tedious task of having to print, scan, and email back to us – is so much easier and more efficient," said Ann Baker, Director of Business Systems at Edmentum. "Edmentum's customers are serving the critical academic needs of students, and for us to be able to take any little task off their plates is a big help, especially during their busiest times of the year." By implementing Conga solutions, Edmentum has reduced the number of contract templates needed from 10 to 1 and cut time to signature dramatically – what once took three to four weeks now only takes one week or less, resulting in a 75% boost in efficiency. "In today's business world, companies can't afford to lose time – and potential sales – to inefficiencies around manual processes and disparate systems," said Noel Goggin, CEO and Culture Leader at Conga. "By adopting Conga's unified technology solutions to streamline processes across teams, Edmentum has actively relieved the labor-intensive processes that bog its salespeople down, offering immediate impacts to turn around on signature time, quicker time to close, and ultimately improved customer satisfaction."For more details on Conga's revenue lifecycle solutions, visit https://conga.com/products/revenue-lifecycle-suite.  About Conga Conga crushes complexity in an increasingly complex world. With our Revenue Lifecycle Management solution, we transform each company's unique complexities for order configuration, execution, fulfillment, and contract renewal processes with a unified data model that adapts to ever-changing business requirements and aligns the understanding and efforts of every team. Our approach is grounded in the Conga Way, a framework of entrepreneurial spirit and achieving together to champion our 11,000+ customers. We're committed to our customers and to removing complexity in an increasingly complex world. Our solutions quickly adapt to changing business models so you can normalize your revenue management processes.Conga has global operations across North America, Europe, and Asia. Learn more at conga.com or follow Conga on Twitter: @congahq. About Edmentum Edmentum is the leading provider of K-12 digital curriculum, assessments, and services to over 43,000 schools, 400,000 educators, and 6 million students in all 50 states and 100 countries worldwide. Building on a 60-year history of impact, Edmentum creates innovative, proven learning technology, partnering with educators to ignite student potential. For more information, visit edmentum.com. Media Contact Addie Reed, Conga, 1 312-766-5515, addie.reed@finnpartners.com   SOURCE  Conga © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.