 From the history of personalized learning, to the prospect of parental pods, to the role of teacher unions in this new world of hybrid learning, there is seemingly no topic that Jamie Candee is afraid to touch. In this wonderfully candid episode, the President and CEO of the online learning platform Edmentum shares some provocative insights on how schools can manage through this years’ back-to-school madness and how the edtech industry can support them. Jamie joined Edmentum in 2005 and began her career with the company in Human Resources, before working her way through nearly every department within the organization—serving as Director, Sales and Service Effectiveness; Vice President, Product Development; Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing; and Chief Revenue Officer during her initial tenure. Jamie rejoined the organization in 2017, to lead Edmentum’s strategic vision and long term growth plan as President, CEO, and Board Director, bringing her successful record of accomplishment as an executive with extensive experience in education technology, private equity, and policy. Jamie was selected by Minnesota Business magazine as one of the 2015 (Real) Power 50, by the Minneapolis/St. Paul Business Journal as a 2017 Titans of Technology honoree, and 2017 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Finalist. Most recently, Jamie was selected as one of EdTech Digest’s Top 100 Influencers in EdTech and she was recognized by the Minneapolis/St. Paul Business Journal as a 2018 Women in Business honoree. She sits on the board of directors for Project Success, a MN-based education non-profit and serves as an advisory board member for Bethel University’s Department of Business and Economics. “At Edmentum, a single mission guides and inspires us as it defines our core purpose and the contribution we make to society: Founded in innovation, we are committed to being educators’ most trusted partner in creating successful student outcomes everywhere learning occurs. To help us work toward that mission while operating business, our key values guide our priorities and are evident in everything we do.”  
Follow us on social media for the latest updates in B2B!
 This episode of Weaver: Beyond the Numbers features how Momentum’s strategic approach to SOC audits has driven both security enhancement and business growth. Hosts Lulu Hernandez Walker and Alexis Kennedy welcome Seth Sageser from Momentum. The discussion highlights the evolution of their partnership, focusing on how Momentum expanded its SOC audit practices from two to… In this episode of I Don’t Care, host Dr. Kevin Stevenson, FACHE, explores the impact of healthcare mentorship on leadership development through the inspiring journey of Christina Oh, the Greater San Francisco Market President for Sutter Health. As a highly accomplished healthcare executive, Oh shares her unique journey from her early days at Baylor… Jesse Cole of the Savannah Bananas baseball team shares a compelling narrative on the transformative power of creativity in business. The core philosophy at the Savannah Bananas is the “fans first” experience, driven by an endless stream of innovative ideas—ideas that are not just theorized but executed with precision. Cole underscores the critical importance… Ensuring the safety of both patients and staff in healthcare settings is a growing concern, particularly as incidents of workplace violence become more frequent. Factors such as mental health crises, substance abuse, and high-stress environments contribute to the complexity of maintaining secure healthcare facilities. Addressing these challenges of preventing workplace violence requires innovative solutions…  In today’s episode of School Safety Today by Raptor Technologies, join host Dr. Amy Grosso as she sits down with Michael Matthews, the Director of Operations for the Fairview Park City School District in the Greater Cleveland Area.  Together, they discuss the crucial preparations and strategies necessary for ensuring a safe return to… In today’s educational landscape, the integration of interactive technologies like gamification, virtual reality (VR), and augmented reality (AR) is transforming classrooms, creating immersive and engaging learning experiences. Advancements in interactive learning methods and technologies are being discussed due to their growing impact on educational outcomes, with research showing that gamified learning can increase student… 
                        MarketScale creates and publishes industry-leading B2B content for industries
                        ranging from Education to Retail, and Hospitality to Healthcare delivering
                        engaging and educational live shows, online learning courses,
                        virtual events and more.
                     Sign up to receive the latest in industry-leading B2B content. Get the latest from  Thank you for joining the .  has successfully been added. Get the latest from Back-to-What? The New Reality of Hybrid Learning with Jamie Candee of Edmentum Thank you for joining the Back-to-What? The New Reality of Hybrid Learning with Jamie Candee of Edmentum.  has successfully been added.