NEW YORK, July  09, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Pomerantz LLP is investigating claims on behalf of investors of Arcellx, Inc. ("Arcellx" or the "Company") ACLX.   Such investors are advised to contact Robert S. Willoughby at  newaction@pomlaw.com or 888-476-6529, ext. 7980. The investigation concerns whether Arcellx and certain of its officers and/or directors have engaged in securities fraud or other unlawful business practices.  [Click here for information about joining the class action] On June 19, 2023, Arcellx issued a press release "announc[ing] . . . that it has received notification from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that a clinical hold has been placed on its CART-ddBCMA investigational new drug (IND) for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (rrMM)."  Arcellx specified that "[t]he clinical hold was received on June 16, following a recent patient death.  The company believes limitations on bridging therapy are a contributing factor and is working with FDA to amend the protocol to expand options for patients that are consistent with current clinical practice.  The FDA has provided clearance to Arcellx to continue to dose patients who have undergone lymphodepletion."  On this news, Arcellx's stock price fell $2.57 per share, or 7.18%, to close at $33.23 per share on June 20, 2023. Pomerantz LLP, with offices in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, London, Paris, and Tel Aviv, is acknowledged as one of the premier firms in the areas of corporate, securities, and antitrust class litigation. Founded by the late Abraham L. Pomerantz, known as the dean of the class action bar, Pomerantz pioneered the field of securities class actions. Today, more than 85 years later, Pomerantz continues in the tradition he established, fighting for the rights of the victims of securities fraud, breaches of fiduciary duty, and corporate misconduct. The Firm has recovered billions of dollars in damages awards on behalf of class members. See www.pomlaw.com. CONTACT:Robert S. WilloughbyPomerantz LLPrswilloughby@pomlaw.com888-476-6529 ext. 7980  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.