Genesis’ U.S.-focused spot crypto trading business will shut down later this month, a move that may affect Genesis' restructuring process, an email sent to clients Tuesday shows. Genesis Global Trading (GGT) will close its over-the-counter trading platform on Sept. 18. All trades must be settled by Sept. 21 and all remaining open accounts will be closed end of day on the 30th. “The decision was made voluntarily and for business reasons,” the email said. Sunsetting GGT's U.S. spot-trading operations is "likely" to affect Genesis' restructuring by potentially kneecapping the company's ability to pay back its creditors, Andrew Rossow, an attorney and CEO of AR Media, told CoinDesk. "Between the shutting down of this part of [its subsidiary's] business and its pending lawsuit against DCG...the biggest question is how [Genesis can] prioritize which creditors to pay back and how quickly it can be done," Rossow said. GGT was one of a handful of Genesis-linked companies that escaped the conglomerate’s crypto lending-induced bankruptcy earlier this year. Another trading-focused wing, GGC International Limited, will continue to run its spot and derivative trading services, the email said. Genesis is owned by DCG, as is CoinDesk. UPDATE (Sept. 5, 2023, 16:57 UTC): Adds U.S. focus. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Danny is CoinDesk's Managing Editor for Data & Tokens. He owns BTC, ETH and SOL. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk