We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The Synthetix price prediction shows that SNX may cross above the channel to hit the $2.20 resistance level if the bulls increase the pressure. Key Levels: Resistance levels: $2.50, $2.60, $2.70 Support levels: $1.50, $1.40, $1.30 SNX/USD is hovering around the resistance level of $2.04 as the coin moves to cross above the upper boundary of the channel. However, the technical indicator Relative Strength Index (14) reveals that the market may embark on a positive movement while the signal line moves to cross above the 50-level. The Synthetix price is changing hands at $2.04 where it faces up. If the coin breaks above the resistance level of $2.20, it could confirm the upward movement. However, any further bullish movement above the channel may locate the nearest resistance levels at $2.50, $2.60, and $2.70, while sliding toward the lower boundary of the channel could reach the support levels of $1.50, $1.40, and $1.30 respectively. Against Bitcoin, the Synthetix price is moving above the 9-day moving average as the coin hits the daily high at 791 SAT. Meanwhile, on the downside, if the market price heads toward the lower boundary of the channel, the next support level may surface at 700 SAT which could locate further support at 650 SAT and below. On the upside, if the bulls push the price above the upper boundary of the channel; further bullish movement may hit the potential resistance level at 900 SAT and above while the signal line of the Relative Strength Index (14) moves to cross above the 50-level. On the other hand, if it moves below this level, sellers may resume and this could bring bearish pressure into the market. The Synthetix price may continue to rise and could probably trade near the upper boundary of the channel if the bulls could touch the resistance level of $2.20. Therefore, any further bullish movement toward the upper boundary of the channel may locate the potential resistance level at $2.20. Nevertheless, the Bitcoin Minetrix is revolutionizing the world of cryptocurrency by introducing a tokenized cloud mining platform. With us, anyone, regardless of their technical expertise, can engage in decentralized Bitcoin mining. Our innovative approach ensures security and transparency like never before. Don’t miss out on this golden opportunity; join our journey today. We’re proud to announce that our ongoing presale has already raised over $129k! New Crypto Mining Platform - Bitcoin Minetrix Rating Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Azeez Mustapha is a technical analyst with many years trading experience in the stock exchange and crypto markets. He has broad experience in forex trading, coaching, and funds management. Azeez provides daily articles covering the price movements of major cryptocurrencies, and has contributed to a range of respected publications and trading magazines. Find his other published work on Learn2.trade, and… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The ...