E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		  Bob Lobel (File) Bob Lobel (File) Bob Lobel saw it all during his nearly 30-year run as the face of sports at WBZ-TV.He went from Larry, Robert, and Kevin.To Paul, Ray, and Kevin.Game 6 in 1986.To Eight Days In October 2004.Lobel kept viewers from losing it in the abyss of “Loserville” in the 1990s. He shared their ride to the stratospheric heights of the early 21st century.Lobel, now 79, was honored last year for his stellar career with a New England Gold Circle Emmy Award. He left WBZ-TV nearly 15 years ago. But his legacy continues with two gifts that remain as relevant today as they were when Lobel introduced them into the Greater Boston sports lexicon.His first is a seven-word phrase.

Jeffersonian in its succinctness, endurance, and impact:“Why can’t we get players like that?”It was spawned by the Hall of Fame career of Jeff Bagwell. The Astros first-baseman and DH was famously traded by the Red Sox in 1990, when he was a minor-leaguer, for pitcher Larry Andersen. Andersen fanned 25 batters and notched a 1.23 ERA over 22 innings during his brief career with the Red Sox, as Boston closed out the 1990 season with an AL East title. They were swept by the A’s 4-0 in the ALCS.Bagwell entered Cooperstown in 2017. He bashed 449 steroid-free home runs over 15 seasons, won MVP, Rookie of the Year, and Gold Glove honors, and was a four-time All-Star.Whenever a Bagwell home run made the WBZ broadcast, Lobel would ask the simple question: “Why can’t we get players like that?” Former Red Sox GM Lou Gorman was not a fan.“Why can’t we get players like that?” has echoed countless times since. We heard it when Wade Boggs won the World Series with the Yankees and celebrated atop a horse. We heard it when Tom Brady and Rob Gronkowski snagged a Super Bowl ring in Tampa Bay. We’ll hear it if Jimmy Garoppolo manages to get the ball to Jakobi Meyers more than 8 yards beyond the line of scrimmage in Las Vegas.Lobel’s other permanent gift to Bay State Fandom was The Panic Button.Not just any panic button.But The Panic Button.It was very real, made of plywood and came complete with a light bulb activated via a switch in the back.The Panic Button carried as much influence then as Twitter does now.“The key to The Panic Button was to bring it out and not use it and just threaten to use it. Then of course, when necessary, use it,” Lobel told me Tuesday. “You always had to tease it. Not using it was just as effective at using it.”Lobel still has the original panic button. He spoke about its origins with WBZ’s Steve Burton last December.“Everyone talks about a panic button, so I said why not get one? I could certainly figure out how to use it in this town, especially with the Red Sox,” said Lobel. “(WBZ set designer) Mike Nosel made it and people still talk about it.”The lower-case panic button re-surfaced in Boston this week, along with wintry weather, breathless reports from snow-covered Fitchburg, and all those alphabetical school closings.Boston sports fans have suddenly become as jittery as Silicon Valley Bank’s balance sheet.The Panic Button was made for moments like this.“We’d bring it out on the set to tease the viewers. They knew why it was there. They wanted to see if you would turn it on. It was mostly Red Sox-generated,” Lobel told me.Lobel and former Channel 5 sportscaster Mike Lynch co-host a podcast called “Unanchored Sports.” Lobel suffers from a neurological disorder that has left him paralyzed from the waist down. He underwent surgery last year and is coming off eight weeks of bedrest. He says he feels great and is looking forward to playing golf again this spring at Granite Lakes Golf Course in Quincy.During Lobel’s run on WBZ-TV, he said the Patriots were spared The Panic Button’s wrath. “They got a free pass during the whole thing. The Panic Button was sacred. You just didn’t bring it out for any old thing. It was for dire circumstances.”That’s just where the Patriots are now. They haven’t won a playoff game since Super Bowl 53, finished 8-9 last year, and have been voyeurs during the early days of the NFL tampering period.“Last year, I would have brought it after that pass in Las Vegas. That was a panic situation,” Lobel said.The Celtics have been the NBA’s version of pre-crash cryptocurrency this season. Their real value appears to be inflated thanks to an excess of hyperbole and celebrity endorsements.The Celtics got 41 minutes and 22 points from Jayson Tatum, and 43 points in 39 minutes from Jaylen Brown Monday. But 61 points and 84 minutes from the Jays was not enough to close out the worst team in the league. Tatum blew a layup at the buzzer in Boston’s 111-109 loss to Houston.The Celtics are trending in the wrong direction. They’ve blown home court in the East. They sit just a game out of the No. 3 seed and potential first-round matchup against the potentially troublesome Knicks.Expectations are negligible at Fenway Park this season. If Boston finishes any lower in the standings, it will land in the AL Central. Anything over 78.5 wins in 2023 is going to trigger a windfall for Bay State bettors.Would Lobel be using The Panic Button this week?“The fact that the Celtics lost to Houston, I might have brought it out. I wouldn’t even think about bringing it out for the Bruins. Probably not for the Celtics. But they’re close. We’re into that territory. The Red Sox? It would be on continuously,” Lobel said.And thus, The Panic Button remains tanned, rested, and ready.Never more than just one game away.Bill Speros (@RealOBF) can be reached at bsperos1@gmail.com. He went from Larry, Robert, and Kevin. To Paul, Ray, and Kevin. Game 6 in 1986. To Eight Days In October 2004. Lobel kept viewers from losing it in the abyss of “Loserville” in the 1990s. He shared their ride to the stratospheric heights of the early 21st century. Lobel, now 79, was honored last year for his stellar career with a New England Gold Circle Emmy Award. He left WBZ-TV nearly 15 years ago. But his legacy continues with two gifts that remain as relevant today as they were when Lobel introduced them into the Greater Boston sports lexicon. His first is a seven-word phrase. Jeffersonian in its succinctness, endurance, and impact: “Why can’t we get players like that?” It was spawned by the Hall of Fame career of Jeff Bagwell. The Astros first-baseman and DH was famously traded by the Red Sox in 1990, when he was a minor-leaguer, for pitcher Larry Andersen. Andersen fanned 25 batters and notched a 1.23 ERA over 22 innings during his brief career with the Red Sox, as Boston closed out the 1990 season with an AL East title. They were swept by the A’s 4-0 in the ALCS. Bagwell entered Cooperstown in 2017. He bashed 449 steroid-free home runs over 15 seasons, won MVP, Rookie of the Year, and Gold Glove honors, and was a four-time All-Star. Whenever a Bagwell home run made the WBZ broadcast, Lobel would ask the simple question: “Why can’t we get players like that?” Former Red Sox GM Lou Gorman was not a fan. “Why can’t we get players like that?” has echoed countless times since. We heard it when Wade Boggs won the World Series with the Yankees and celebrated atop a horse. We heard it when Tom Brady and Rob Gronkowski snagged a Super Bowl ring in Tampa Bay. We’ll hear it if Jimmy Garoppolo manages to get the ball to Jakobi Meyers more than 8 yards beyond the line of scrimmage in Las Vegas. Lobel’s other permanent gift to Bay State Fandom was The Panic Button. Not just any panic button. But The Panic Button. It was very real, made of plywood and came complete with a light bulb activated via a switch in the back. The Panic Button carried as much influence then as Twitter does now. “The key to The Panic Button was to bring it out and not use it and just threaten to use it. Then of course, when necessary, use it,” Lobel told me Tuesday. “You always had to tease it. Not using it was just as effective at using it.” Lobel still has the original panic button. He spoke about its origins with WBZ’s Steve Burton last December. “Everyone talks about a panic button, so I said why not get one? I could certainly figure out how to use it in this town, especially with the Red Sox,” said Lobel. “(WBZ set designer) Mike Nosel made it and people still talk about it.” The lower-case panic button re-surfaced in Boston this week, along with wintry weather, breathless reports from snow-covered Fitchburg, and all those alphabetical school closings. Boston sports fans have suddenly become as jittery as Silicon Valley Bank’s balance sheet. The Panic Button was made for moments like this. “We’d bring it out on the set to tease the viewers. They knew why it was there. They wanted to see if you would turn it on. It was mostly Red Sox-generated,” Lobel told me. Lobel and former Channel 5 sportscaster Mike Lynch co-host a podcast called “Unanchored Sports.” Lobel suffers from a neurological disorder that has left him paralyzed from the waist down. He underwent surgery last year and is coming off eight weeks of bedrest. He says he feels great and is looking forward to playing golf again this spring at Granite Lakes Golf Course in Quincy. During Lobel’s run on WBZ-TV, he said the Patriots were spared The Panic Button’s wrath. “They got a free pass during the whole thing. The Panic Button was sacred. You just didn’t bring it out for any old thing. It was for dire circumstances.” That’s just where the Patriots are now. They haven’t won a playoff game since Super Bowl 53, finished 8-9 last year, and have been voyeurs during the early days of the NFL tampering period. “Last year, I would have brought it after that pass in Las Vegas. That was a panic situation,” Lobel said. The Celtics have been the NBA’s version of pre-crash cryptocurrency this season. Their real value appears to be inflated thanks to an excess of hyperbole and celebrity endorsements. The Celtics got 41 minutes and 22 points from Jayson Tatum, and 43 points in 39 minutes from Jaylen Brown Monday. But 61 points and 84 minutes from the Jays was not enough to close out the worst team in the league. Tatum blew a layup at the buzzer in Boston’s 111-109 loss to Houston. The Celtics are trending in the wrong direction. They’ve blown home court in the East. They sit just a game out of the No. 3 seed and potential first-round matchup against the potentially troublesome Knicks. Expectations are negligible at Fenway Park this season. If Boston finishes any lower in the standings, it will land in the AL Central. Anything over 78.5 wins in 2023 is going to trigger a windfall for Bay State bettors. Would Lobel be using The Panic Button this week? “The fact that the Celtics lost to Houston, I might have brought it out. I wouldn’t even think about bringing it out for the Bruins. Probably not for the Celtics. But they’re close. We’re into that territory. The Red Sox? It would be on continuously,” Lobel said. And thus, The Panic Button remains tanned, rested, and ready. Never more than just one game away. Bill Speros (@RealOBF) can be reached at bsperos1@gmail.com. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group