
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 DC: Dark Legion hits iOS and Android in 2024. By 
    Eddie Makuch
   on July 13, 2023 at 6:09AM PDT Warner Bros. and FunPlus have announced a new DC video game. DC: Dark Legion is a strategy game releasing in 2024 for iOS and Android. The multiplayer game has players recruiting DC super heroes and villains to join their roster as they "fight for survival, justice, and freedom." You can see the announcement video and key art below. You need a javascript enabled browser to watch videos. 
        Want us to remember this setting for all your devices?
       Sign up or Sign in now!
       
        By clicking 'enter', you agree to GameSpot's
                        Terms of Use and
        Privacy Policy enter Now Playing: DC Dark Legion - Exclusive Announcement Teaser Trailer The game takes place in the DC universe and tells a story involving The Batman Who Laughs and his Dark Knights. These are "twisted" versions of members of the Justice League who debuted in the DC Comics series Dark Knights: Metal. "As they fight to stop The Batman Who Laughs and his army from destroying everything they know, players take on the role of an agent from the 31st century tasked with leading the world's greatest super heroes against the overwhelming threat from the Dark Multiverse," reads a line from the game's description.   Some of the DC superheroes who appear in DC: Dark Legion include Superman, Wonder Woman, Batman, The Flash, Black Adam, and Green Arrow, among others. Players will build out their collection of heroes and make them stronger with additional superpowers and equipment unlocked over time. Developer FunPlus previously worked with Warner Bros. to bring The Joker with his own story campaign into the mobile game State of Survival. More details on DC: Dark Legion will be announced later this year. If DC: Dark Legion doesn't sound like your jam, other upcoming DC games include Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League and a Wonder Woman game. Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 