The Top 10 Project Management Software In 2024 Your email has been sent As organizations worldwide continue to adapt to an increasingly competitive landscape and a rapidly evolving business environment, the demand for effective project management solutions has never been greater. Companies of all sizes are recognizing the need to streamline workflows, enhance collaboration and boost overall productivity. Implementing the right project management software can help businesses stay ahead of the curve by ensuring projects are completed on time, within budget and with optimal resource allocation. Alongside pricing, here are some of the most important features that set apart the best project management software on the market. The table below illustrates which of the top 10 project management tools include these key features. Our rating: 5 out of 5 Image: monday.com monday work management is a reputable project management brand with a flexible platform for teams of all flavors. While initially intimidating, the monday work management interface is packed with features and offers extensive configuration management capabilities. While other solutions lean into a few views of project data, monday work management gives users the most flexibility in adding and configuring valuable visualizations. Though I ran into hiccups using monday work management, the project management software excels in customization, giving teams the expected control to optimize workflows. I chose monday work management for its outstanding versatility. I found it to be the project management software with an interface that can be appreciated by both the most and least technical users. It’s a powerful tool for a variety of project management use cases and offers robust features for team collaboration tools, automation features and customization. For more information, read our full monday work management review.  
Visit monday.com 
 monday.com integrates seamlessly with many popular tools to improve workflows and raise productivity. It connects with Jira Service Management for tracking issues and project tasks, GitHub for managing code repositories, Slack for team communication, Dropbox for file storage and Google Drive for document management. Our rating: 5 out of 5 Image: ClickUp The fastest mover in the project management software space is ClickUp. Only five years after its founding, the San Diego-based startup has grown into one of the top project management solution providers. ClickUp far exceeded my expectations with a stack of project views and tools to enable productivity and collaboration for a wide variety of functional teams. Add in ClickUp’s handful of affordable subscription plans for different team sizes and it’s difficult not to consider this budding project management software. However, although ClickUp has extensive customization options and a robust free tier that provides significant value, its vast array of features can sometimes feel overwhelming, especially when using it for the first time. I picked ClickUp as one of the best project management software for its affordable pricing plans, comprehensive features and customizable workflows. Its free plan supports unlimited members and includes a good number of useful features that can satisfy individual users. It also has a user-friendly interface that users of all technical levels can easily use. For more information, read our full ClickUp review.  
Visit ClickUp 
 ClickUp integrates with a wide range of essential tools. Five of the tools it connects with are: Our rating: 4.5 out of 5 Image: Confluence Confluence is team collaboration and project management software with outstanding document management and knowledge-sharing features. It’s suitable for any size or type of team. Users such as project managers can also use Confluence to create and track tasks on one centralized platform. Confluence excels at creating a centralized knowledge base with powerful search capabilities and seamless integration with other Atlassian products; however, its interface can come off as less intuitive compared to other project management tools, and the performance can lag when handling large volumes of data. I found Confluence to have advantages over other competitors, such as a centralized knowledge repository, robust document search and discovery feature and file sharing. Plus, teams already using Atlassian products will find Confluence an easy and powerful addition to the ecosystem. For more information, read our full Confluence review.  
Visit Confluence 
 Confluence integrates with several tools to improve project management and collaboration. It works seamlessly with Jira Software for comprehensive project tracking, Trello for flexible task management, Salesforce for robust customer relationship management and Zendesk for efficient customer support among others. Our rating: 4.5 out of 5 Image: Notion In Notion, teams can collaborate, organize projects, run Agile sprints and work with guests, all in one workspace. The user interface is beginner-friendly and the free version is great for exploring the platform. You can work with contractors, clients and coworkers on all sorts of projects. The platform’s extensive template library and ability to integrate with various tools enhance its appeal. Small teams, startups and freelancers will love the affordability and bigger teams will enjoy the collaboration, automation and advanced security options. You may encounter performance bottlenecks when you use Notion for complex projects or when you extensively use its database features​. I enjoyed Notion because of its flexibility to handle design, development and writing projects with the option to collaborate with people outside your workspace. Notion makes structuring projects easy with a minimalist interface that does not overwhelm. It’s great for single users and small budgets but still offers plans that scale up to meet enterprise needs. For more information, read our full Notion review.  
Visit Notion 
 Notion offers an open API for building your own connections with your tech stack. Common connections include Zapier for automating workflows and linking with numerous other apps, Slack for seamless team communication, Nightfall AI for data security and compliance, Canva for creative design projects, Google Drive for comprehensive document management and OneDrive for additional file storage. Our rating: 3.8 out of 5 Image: Smartsheet Launched in 2005, Smartsheet’s project and work management platform is one of the safest bets in the project management software market. From onboarding to using the platform, I was impressed by the interface’s user-friendliness and the features’ extensibility. Smartsheet offers an upgrade from traditional tools by adding accessible user experience features, needed integrations, robust customization and no-code capabilities to a spreadsheet interface. Smartsheet pricing is among the highest on the market and there is no unlimited free plan. Still, I believe the platform’s benefits more than justify consideration for small teams up to enterprise organizations. Smartsheet’s most unique offering is its spreadsheet-like interface, which gives familiarity and guarantees ease of use for users that prefer to use spreadsheets to track projects. However, it’s the way it meshes its interface with advanced project management features like automated workflows, Gantt charts and detailed reporting that I found impressive. Plus, one would think that users unfamiliar with spreadsheets would have a difficult time using Smartsheet but the platform does a great job with a straightforward onboarding process and tempates that lower the learning curve. For more information, read our full Smartsheet review.  
Visit Smartsheet 
 Smartsheet integrates seamlessly with popular tools like Microsoft Teams for improved team communication, Slack for real-time messaging, Salesforce for customer relationship management, Zapier for automation across various apps and Google Workspace for document and file management. Our rating: 4.6 out of 5 Image: Wrike The newest subsidiary of Citrix, Wrike was already one of the biggest names in project management software even before its backing by the cloud computing giant. With the capacity to manage entire project portfolios, Wrike’s feature set includes custom request forms, risk predictions, invoicing software and enterprise-grade security. I found the platform incredibly powerful, with clear use cases for small businesses, enterprise organizations and various team functions. Upon first glance, the user interface is busy and Wrike’s learning curve is likely the steepest in the project management software space, with a steep learning curve likely to be present to help users maximize the benefits its features offer. That said, few vendors offer the same extent of enterprise capabilities. Wrike made it to my shortlist because of its powerful portfolio management capabilities, which make it great for managing complex workflows and multiple projects. I also found Wrike to be easy to use and to have effective team collaboration features. Another key reason for Wrike is that Wrike is highly scalable, making it a great choice for hyper-growth teams. For more information, check out our full Wrike review.  
Visit Wrike 
 Among the multiple integrations in Wrike, some standouts include Power BI for advanced data analytics, Salesforce for managing customer relationships, Zoom for virtual meetings, Google Drive for file storage and Microsoft Teams for team collaboration. Our rating: 4.2 out of 5 Image: Zoho Projects Under the Zoho portfolio of solutions, Zoho Projects offers teams a stack of features for tracking tasks, issues, time and resources to maximize collaboration and productivity. Users can visualize and adjust project data through views such as a traditional spreadsheet, simple list, kanban board or Gantt chart in real-time or automate mapped workflows with the Blueprints tool. Zoho Projects offers a lot of functionality, considering it’s the most affordable project management software. This makes it great for small teams. However, it also lacks some of the personalization and advanced features included in the top tier of platforms. If you want value for money, look no further than Zoho Projects, as this low-cost project management app offers outstanding value. I enjoyed multiple channels for team collaboration and communication during my time using the tool, as well as a quick and easy setup. Additionally, for its paid plans, you get unlimited projects. For more information, read our full Zoho Projects review.  
Visit Zoho Projects 
 Zoho Projects’ integrations include Zoho CRM for customer relationship management, Slack for improved team communication, Google Workspace for document management, Zapier for automation and Microsoft Teams for collaboration. Our rating: 4.6 out of 5 Image: Jira Software Atlassian’s portfolio of collaboration, code management and security solutions is led by its flagship project-tracking software, Jira. In response to a growing number of general-use project management solutions, Jira offers a mix of project data views, reporting and configuration capabilities with the Work Management platform included in its suite of products. Jira Software is ideal for organizations already using Atlassian products or teams relying on integrations such as the private repository host BitBucket. Otherwise, its general project management functionality is below par relative to the broader project management marketplace, and non-software development teams might find Jira less intuitive compared to other project management tools​. Jira is one of the best project management software for its Agile support. I certainly appreciated its Agile features with Kanban and Scrum, as well as its bug tracking and issue management capabilities. While these features are most suitable for software development, they can be used for a variety of other applications. For more information, read our full Jira Software review.  
Visit Jira 
 Jira Software effectively integrates with numerous tools to fine-tune project management and improve workflows. These connections include GitHub for version control, Lucidchart for creating diagrams, Confluence for documentation, Microsoft Teams for collaboration and Slack for team communication. Our rating: 3.9 out of 5 Image: Asana One of the most popular project management software solutions, Asana is the work management platform started in 2008 by former Facebook developers. The Silicon Valley–based company has grown dramatically in that time and the platform’s extensibility affirms why so many businesses choose it. Asana is known for its flexibility and extensive feature set, with robust import options and integration capabilities that make transitioning to the platform seamless. From viewing team member workloads to adding strategic goals and setting user security policies, I believe Asana has something for every team. Though some actions were less intuitive, Asana made up for them with the documentation and resources to guide platform projects efficiently. Asana is an outstanding task management and team collaboration software solution. I found it to be flexible, fast and feature-rich with a generous free plan. This flexibility qualifies Asana to be used by businesses of all sizes. In addition, you get several import options, making it easy for users to transition to Asana from other software or to use it with other applications. For more information, read our full Asana review. A 30-day free trial is available for these Asana plans:  
Visit Asana 
 Some of the most popular integrations Asana allows are OneDrive for file storage, Slack for team communication, Jira Software for issue tracking, Harvest for time tracking and Microsoft Teams for collaboration. Our rating: 3.4 out of 5 Image: Microsoft Project An awesome project management solution for Microsoft fans and established teams is Microsoft Project. The software is great for communicating with medium and large teams and offers a variety of purchase options. It’s not included in Microsoft 365, but you can integrate it after purchase. Subscriptions come with a one-month free trial. The absence of a free plan in Microsoft Project could be a downside for more established teams but is something smaller teams may appreciate. Microsoft Project is a perfect solution for teams with Microsoft tech stacks already. It’s ideal for managing projects with complex requirements. It can also be used as a standalone solution, giving users the option to not purchase a Microsoft 365 subscription. I also appreciated its integration with other Microsoft products, which is a delight for teams that are already deep in the Microsoft ecosystem. Ultimately, it’s a great tool for keeping large teams on the same page. For more information, read our full Microsoft Project review. Microsoft Project comes in an on-premise version or cloud version, as well as subscription and one-time purchase versions.  
Visit Microsoft Project 
 When choosing the software that best fits your use case, there are key factors to consider. To ensure a tool in consideration is easy enough to use, select the project management software that gives you an intuitive interface and straightforward navigation. Look for tools that allow your team to perform tasks most effectively with minimal training based on their technical skills, like tools with drag-and-drop functionalities and clear visual layouts. User-friendly software reduces the learning curve, which can increase software adoption and overall productivity within your team​. You want a tool that gives vast customization options that meet your team’s needs. Customizable dashboards, task boards, and automation rules can help you align the software with your processes. Go for a software solution that lets you modify features, views, and integrations to fit your team’s requirements and enhance efficiency​. Effective communication features are a must-have in project management today. Your consideration should include built-in chat, comment sections, and real-time notifications for a full suite of features to keep your team connected. It’s expected that most tools on the market integrate with popular communication platforms like Slack and Microsoft Teams, which can further streamline information sharing and ensure that all team members are on the same page​​. Efficient time and resource management capabilities have an impact on productivity. Based on your use case, look for software that offers resource allocation, time tracking, and workload management and other resource management features that may be relevant to you. Security is a top priority when handling sensitive project data. Choose a platform that offers the security features and measures that are the best fit for your team, with the basics being data encryption, two-factor authentication and access controls. Last but not least, choose a solution that balances features and functionality with cost to ensure you get value for money. Compare the pricing plans of different tools and consider whether the features offered justify the cost. Look for software that provides a good mix of essential features within your budget, and check for any hidden costs, such as charges for additional users or premium support. Analyzing customer reviews and case studies can also help you determine the overall cost-effectiveness of the software​. To compile this list of the best project management software, I took into account a range of factors, from features and cost to user experience. The 10 tools I chose all approach project management in a unique manner; as a result, I set out to find the uniqueness of each tool by testing them where possible. This answered my questions on the user experience and usability of the tools and helped to understand both their strengths and shortcomings. It also revealed the best quality of each software. I also kept an eye on the top integrations available to each tool. In cases where I couldn’t get direct access to a tool without having to first subscribe, I used demos to understand how the tool in consideration works. Then I compared my findings with the reviews of verified users to determine whether my experience was common or whether I was an outlier. 
                    Subscribe to Project Management Insider for best practices, reviews and resources. From project scheduling software to project planning apps, stay up to date with the latest in project management tools. Delivered Wednesdays                 
                    Subscribe to Project Management Insider for best practices, reviews and resources. From project scheduling software to project planning apps, stay up to date with the latest in project management tools. Delivered Wednesdays                 The Top 10 Project Management Software In 2024 Your email has been sent 
            Get the web's best business technology news, tutorials, reviews, trends, and analysis—in 
            your inbox. Let's start with the basics.
         
* - indicates required fields
         
            Lost your password? Request a new password
 
            Please enter your email adress. You will receive an email message with instructions on how to reset your password.
         
            Check your email for a password reset link. If you didn't receive an email don't forgot to check your spam folder, otherwise contact support.
         
            This will help us provide you with customized content.
         
            Thanks for signing up! Keep an eye out for a confirmation email from our team. To ensure any newsletters you subscribed to hit your inbox, make sure to add newsletters@nl.technologyadvice.com to your contacts list.
        