
                
                    
                        Let Healthcare Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The New Orleans-based health system will use generative artificial intelligence to draft messages to patients, which will be reviewed and edited by clinicians. Several large technology companies have developed healthcare applications for generative AI, which can be used to autonomously generate content like text or images.  Microsoft and Epic, the nation’s largest health records vendor, expanded their partnership this spring to integrate the Azure OpenAI Service and begin implementing capabilities like message responses, interactive data analysis and natural language query tools. Last month, the partners said they would accelerate their work on generative AI, working to “rapidly deploy dozens” of AI technologies in healthcare.  Other tech giants have their own healthcare offerings. Amazon has announced its own clinical documentation service and Oracle, now a competitor to Epic after its Cerner acquisition, unveiled generative AI tools that can be integrated into EHRs.  Many of the AI technologies aim to cut down on providers’ administrative tasks and health records upkeep, like responding to patient messages or taking notes on visits. Clinicians report spending hours per day on EHR-related tasks, potentially fueling burnout and cutting into time spent with patients.  Last year, more than four million medical advice requests were sent to physicians through Ochsner’s patient portal, according to the health system. “The AI will generate a draft for the clinician to review and send. It’s meant to help clinicians respond more quickly to patient messages, so patients can get answers to their questions sooner,” Ochsner Chief Application Officer Amy Trainor said in a statement. “And it will reduce time our clinicians are spending on computers so that they can spend more time doing what they do best — direct patient care.” Each phase of the pilot will incorporate different physicians across the system, according to an Ochsner spokesperson. The program will start with primary care and internal medicine clinicians, as they receive the most messages.  Some experts have raised concerns about the rapid deployment of generative AI in healthcare. Accuracy is a big concern, as some models have been caught making up incorrect information. Others question who would be held liable for errors, and whether AI could perpetuate biases and deepen existing healthcare inequities. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Mergers with geographic overlap often face challenges. This deal doesn't "raise the same red flags, but it doesn't mean that it gets waved through," said Leemore Dafny, former deputy director of healthcare and antitrust at the FTC. There’s a complication: No one solution to the U.S.’ patchy physician licensing infrastructure has universal buy-in. Subscribe to Healthcare Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Mergers with geographic overlap often face challenges. This deal doesn't "raise the same red flags, but it doesn't mean that it gets waved through," said Leemore Dafny, former deputy director of healthcare and antitrust at the FTC. There’s a complication: No one solution to the U.S.’ patchy physician licensing infrastructure has universal buy-in. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines