Find out when you can tune into the beloved Christmas classic. A Charlie Brown Christmas has aired on broadcast television each year since it debuted on CBS in 1965, becoming a beloved holiday tradition—which explains why there was an outcry in 2020 when Apple acquired the rights to all Peanuts-related media and announced that the Charlie Brown Christmas special, as well as the Halloween and Thanksgiving specials, would be available to view only on Apple’s streaming service, Apple TV+. Related: The Best Animated Christmas Specials and Holiday Cartoons At the time, more than 263,000 fans signed an online petition protesting the removal of the classic specials from broadcast TV. “For over 50 years, we have celebrated the holidays with the airings of the Peanuts holiday specials on TV—first on CBS, then on ABC,” the petition read. “To our shock and dismay, last night it was announced that Apple had swiped the football from us and claimed the specials for their Apple TV platform, leaving us devoted fans who have grown up with Charlie Brown and the Peanuts gang in the dark, unable to watch.” In response to these complaints, Apple relented. The week before Thanksgiving, the tech giant announced that they had struck a deal with PBS to air A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving and A Charlie Brown Christmas on TV last year, without ads. Related: The Best Christmas Movies on Netflix The tradition continued in 2021, but fans of A Charlie Brown Christmas won't have that luck in 2022—but that doesn't mean they're out of luck. You can still watch A Charlie Brown Christmas for free if you know where (and when!) to look. Ready to get festive with Charlie Brown, Linus, Pig Pen, Lucy and the saddles little Christmas tree you ever did see? Here’s how to watch A Charlie Brown Christmas on TV and online for the 2022 holiday season. Related: The Best Kids Christmas Movies to Watch as a Family You can only watch A Charlie Brown Christmas on Apple TV+ in 2022. You'll have to tune in to Apple TV+ to watch A Charlie Brown Christmas this year. You won't need a subscription to watch it if you tune in from Dec. 22 through Dec. 25, 2022. Related: Freeform's 25 Days of Christmas Schedule Though there were concessions made for Christmas 2021, you'll only be able to watch A Charlie Brown Christmas on Apple TV+ in 2022. You can watch it without subscribing from Dec. 22 to Dec. 25, 2022. A Charlie Brown Christmas isn't going to air on TV this year, but you'll be able to watch it for free on Apple TV+ from Dec. 22 through Christmas Day 2022. Related: The Best Unconventional and Alternative Christmas Movies A Charlie Brown Christmas will not air on TV for 2022. PBS previously confirmed in a tweet that they do not have the rights to the Peanuts films and specials this year. That said, you can still watch it free of charge without an Apple TV+ subscription from Dec. 22 through Dec. 25, 2022. Related: The Best Christmas Movies to Watch This Holiday Season A Charlie Brown Christmas has a running time of 25 minutes. Short and sweet! A Charlie Brown Christmas will not air on any TV stations this year. Good grief! Related: The Best Christmas Movie Quotes Ever Netflix doesn’t currently have A Charlie Brown Christmas available for streaming. A Charlie Brown Christmas will available to stream during the 2022 holiday season exclusively via the Apple TV+ streaming service, which costs $4.99 per month. You can watch it for free without a subscription to Apple TV+ from Dec. 22 through Dec. 25, 2022. Related: Our Ultimate List of the Best Classic Christmas Movies of All Time A Charlie Brown Christmas is not currently available to rent online, although you can watch it on Apple TV+ for free without an Apple TV+ subscription from Dec. 22 through Dec. 25, 2022. Related: Best Lifetime Christmas Movies You can buy DVD or Blu-ray copies of the Charlie Brown Christmas special from many major retailers including Target, Best Buy and Amazon. Next, check out the best Christmas TV episodes and holiday specials of all time. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. Who will take over Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics?