


								
									AAPL: 225.89 ( -0.16 )								 
									Copyright © 2024 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
								 iPhone 14 Pro Apple's holiday quarter results will be lower than 2021, according to Cowen, with "softness" expected due to iPhone shipments impacted by Chinese lockdowns.   For the December 2022 quarter, analysts at Cowen model Apple as being down 4% year-on-year, with total revenue at $118.8 billion. The earnings per share for the quarter is expected to rest at $1.90.In explaining the prediction in a note to investors seen by AppleInsider, Cowen believes that iPhone shipments are down approximately 8 million units due to mid-quarter lockdowns affecting the Zhengzhou factory. For the quarter, strong October shipments followed by a reduction in November results in builds around 74 million for the period. While the supply chain challenges have "largely normalized," the analysts think Apple is entering a "period of slower demand due to macro factors." This includes reductions in near-term product builds versus prior market expectations. For the March quarter, the sellthrough is being modified from 59 million to 61 million iPhone units. This helps Cowen forecast a March quarter guidance of flat overall revenue year-on-year at $98 billion. Sales of iPads are thought to have benefited from seasonality, as well as improved component availability. Meanwhile, the Mac segment is down quarter-to-quarter due to a "lack of refreshed MacBook Pro systems with M2 Silicon," something Apple fixed in January. Supply chain checks point to the March quarter Mac builds to be lower than initial plans from three months ago, "owing to slowing demand." The resilient Services business is modeled to increase growth by 10% year-on-year, with low-teen percentage growth of App Store activity. While it "remains to be seen if Apple branded subscriptions benefited from Dec Q promotions," Cowen also thinks there could be modest downside risk to licensing revenues due to weakness in the digital advertising market. Cowen has a price target of $200 for Apple and rates it as "Outperform." Apple is reporting its Q1 2023 financials on February 2. AppleInsider will be providing coverage of the figures, and the usual analyst conference call.  For the December 2022 quarter, analysts at Cowen model Apple as being down 4% year-on-year, with total revenue at $118.8 billion. The earnings per share for the quarter is expected to rest at $1.90. In explaining the prediction in a note to investors seen by AppleInsider, Cowen believes that iPhone shipments are down approximately 8 million units due to mid-quarter lockdowns affecting the Zhengzhou factory. For the quarter, strong October shipments followed by a reduction in November results in builds around 74 million for the period.  While the supply chain challenges have "largely normalized," the analysts think Apple is entering a "period of slower demand due to macro factors." This includes reductions in near-term product builds versus prior market expectations.  For the March quarter, the sellthrough is being modified from 59 million to 61 million iPhone units. This helps Cowen forecast a March quarter guidance of flat overall revenue year-on-year at $98 billion.  Sales of iPads are thought to have benefited from seasonality, as well as improved component availability. Meanwhile, the Mac segment is down quarter-to-quarter due to a "lack of refreshed MacBook Pro systems with M2 Silicon," something Apple fixed in January.  Supply chain checks point to the March quarter Mac builds to be lower than initial plans from three months ago, "owing to slowing demand."  The resilient Services business is modeled to increase growth by 10% year-on-year, with low-teen percentage growth of App Store activity.  While it "remains to be seen if Apple branded subscriptions benefited from Dec Q promotions," Cowen also thinks there could be modest downside risk to licensing revenues due to weakness in the digital advertising market.  Cowen has a price target of $200 for Apple and rates it as "Outperform."  Apple is reporting its Q1 2023 financials on February 2. AppleInsider will be providing coverage of the figures, and the usual analyst conference call.  Based in South Wales, Malcolm Owen has written about tech since 2012, and previously wrote for Electronista and MacNN. In his downtime, he pursues photography, has an interest in magic tricks, and is bothered by his c... The Live Photos feature in the Camera app on an iPhone or iPad takes about two seconds of video. Here's how to turn it into an actual video clip. Apple has released watchOS 10.6.1 and tvOS 17.6.1 to the public, as well as rereleasing iOS 17.6.1 and iPadOS 17.6.1. For the first time, Apple has made its whole podcast library available online, where it can be heard in Safari or other browsers, instead of the Apple Podcasts app. Apple is commemorating the 108th anniversary of the US National Park Service by launching a campaign to raise funds through Apple Pay donations. A record-breaking discount is available exclusively for AppleInsider readers, with the premium 2024 M4 iPad Pro 13-inch with 1TB storage now $200 off. Procreate, company behind the popular art app designed exclusively for iPad, has issued a public statement saying that it has no plans to include generative AI in its products. Most potential upgraders will find pricing to be a big factor in moving to the iPhone 16, a survey claims, with the introduction of Apple Intelligence almost as important. The Apple Sports app now offers NFL and NCAA football support just in time for the upcoming football season. Following both news of Berkshire Hathaway's selling over half its holdings in the company, and a wider fear of recession taking a steep toll on international stock markets, Apple shares took a steep dive as trading began on Monday. In a surprise move, in the second quarter of 2024, Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway made the biggest sale of Apple in years, unloading around 400 million shares and missing the post-WWDC stock peak. Apple's third-quarter financial results were a significant improvement for 2024. Here's how the figures visually break down in a quarter where Apple soundly beat Wall Street's forecasts. 