If you’re in the market for a VR or mixed-reality headset, deciding between Apple and Meta can be challenging, but don’t worry, we’ve got you covered. by The Apple Vision Pro is the most highly anticipated headset to date, but how does it compare to Meta’s line of Quest headsets?  Meta already has two VR headsets on the market and a third on the way. Can Apple compete with the current market leader?  Let’s take a look at the specs and features of each product hints that Apple might be the new gold standard.  How does the Apple Vision Pro compare to Meta’s headsets on a purely technical level? It will be a tough competitor for Meta but falls short in one important category. Meta is the clear winner in the price category. As incredibly powerful and sleek as the Apple Vision Pro is, it costs more than most people pay in monthly rent.  The Apple Vision Pro costs $3,500, three times more expensive than Meta’s most expensive headset and 10 times costlier than the baseline Quest 2.  You’ll get your money’s worth if you can afford the Apple Vision Pro. The sensors, cameras, and display are significantly more powerful than those in Meta’s Quest Pro headset.  The Vision Pro has a 23 million pixel 4K display in each eye, far sharper than the Quest Pro’s Full HD LCDs.  However, the Vision Pro has twice as many cameras as the Quest Pro, plus powerful TrueDepth and LiDAR sensors.  All those cameras allow the Vision Pro to have an outward-facing display that lets other people see the wearer’s eyes while wearing the headset.  There are no frontrunners in the headset battery contest. The Apple Vision Pro has an estimated battery life of about two to three hours, which matches all of Meta’s headsets.  The difference is that the Vision Pro uses a detachable wired battery pack. Meta’s headsets have an internal battery, so you will need a third-party detachable battery to replicate the same feature with a Quest 2, 3, or Pro.  Which headsets have the best features for users? Apple hasn’t announced the full range of apps on the Vision Pro, but there is one crucial difference between Apple and Meta’s headsets already.  More people are paying attention to data privacy today. Part of this stems from fear of personal information being stolen or used for inappropriate purposes like advertising.  However, learning and training can go a long way toward defeating those concerns so you can use VR and AR safely.  That’s why it is so important to understand how Apple and Meta differ on user privacy. Paying more for the Apple Vision Pro is well worth it if you have concerns.  Apple has a long history of protecting and respecting users’ data privacy, while Meta has already been caught selling users’ eye-tracking data for targeted advertising.  Apple clarified in the Vision Pro announcement that users’ eye-tracking data will never leave the headset. Even Apple won’t have access to it. That policy makes Apple far and away the frontrunner regarding user privacy.  Meta’s Quest headsets have been out much longer than the Apple Vision Pro, but that doesn’t necessarily mean they have an edge on apps and games.  Meta’s available apps are heavily concentrated on gaming, primarily in VR. A Quest 2 or 3 might be the way to go if you mainly want a headset for playing VR games.  The Apple Vision Pro will launch with two incredibly powerful chips inside to run virtually any app on Apple’s other devices. It can essentially replace an entire Macbook.  You can play games on it, but you can also edit videos, write an essay, do graphic design, work remotely, or join a FaceTime call with a realistic 3D rendering of your face.  The choice between Apple and Meta can be tough if you’re considering buying a VR or mixed-reality headset. The Apple Vision Pro is worth the investment if you can afford it.  However, if you’re just looking to play VR games, Meta’s headsets could be the more cost-effective option. With its sleek design and cutting-edge tech, the Meta Quest 2 offers a game-changing VR experience. All without a PC. Take the plunge today; you won't regret it. Have any thoughts on this? Drop us a line below in the comments, or carry the discussion to our Twitter or Facebook. Just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. It’s one of the ways we keep the lights on here. Click here for more. Staff writer at ReHack Magazine with a passion for cybersecurity, AI, and all things tech. Offline, you'll find me cruising the neighborhood on my motorcycle or bingeing the latest true crime documentary. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Apple is reportedly working on an Apple Maps app for Android devices, which could... M4 Macs are coming. starting late 2024 and one of them is set to... No need to worry; the iPhone 16 is on schedule even if Apple Intelligence... Apple officially discontinued the last iPod model on May 10, 2022, marking the end... Apple has delayed the release of its AI suite, Apple Intelligence, from the iOS... Apple's iOS 18 will allow users to share a live video stream directly with... Apple has launched a web version of its Maps app, offering a full set... Apple's first foldable iPhone, codenamed 'V68,' is expected to launch in early 2026 with... As an Amazon Associate and affiliate partner, we may earn from qualifying purchases made through links on this site. Copyright © 2024 KnowTechie LLC / Powered by Kinsta 