Solutions to Nigeria’s newborn mortality rate might lie in existing innovations Research into more efficient AI hardware and software supported by AMD donation Imperial and Vietnamese partners explore UK and Vietnam's pathways to net zero    Duration: 1 year full-time Start Date: October 2023 Campus: South Kensington, London ECTS: 90 Credits Postgraduate study web page If you are unable to pay a course’s application fee, we encourage you to apply for a fee waiver. If you are interested in this MSc and wish to apply for a fee waiver, please contact ese-msc-acse@imperial.ac.uk prior to starting your application. Students will gain deep knowledge and skills in cutting-edge computational techniques for real world science and engineering applications to meet industry demand.   The Applied Computational Science and Engineering MSc will educate future domain-specialists in computational science. This course will expand your knowledge of numerical methods, computational science, and how to solve large scale problems by applying novel science and engineering approaches. Graduates of this course will fill the market demand for those with applied, hands-on computational experience who can solve real world problems.  Find the most recent ‌MSc Applied Computational Science and Engineering Programme Specification on the Imperial College London course page for the MSc Applied Computational Science and Engineering. The MSc is suitable for graduates of disciplines including mathematics and physical sciences, geophysics and engineering, and computer science. All students should have undertaken some programming in a high-level language (including Matlab, Python or C/C++).  Dr Gerard Gorman, Course Director, Applied Computational Science & Engineering MSc: “Students will learn to solve real-world problems using numerical methods and computational science for a broad range of applications in science and engineering”  Dr Adriana Paluszny, Royal Society University Research Fellow: “Students will engage with a broad range of trending coding techniques and applications – we will prepare them for success in industry and academia” We have two departmental scholarships available to women who are offer holders for any of the following programmes, for 2024 entry:  To request the scholarship application form, please email the course administrator (name above).  The scholarships will be awarded to women who demonstrate exceptional academic merit and/or potential and are open to Home applicants. The Scholarship will cover Home Tuition fees and a stipend.  How to apply  To be considered for a Scholarship for one of the above MSc programmes in academic year 2024-25, please apply for the course via the Imperial College MSc graduate course admissions process by 24 May 2024, and complete the scholarship application form by 11am (UK time) on 7 June 2024. The department has several scholarships available to students who are offer holders for any of the following programmes, for 2024 entry:  MSc Applied Computational Science and Engineering [contact: Ying Ashton] MSc Environmental Data Science and Machine Learning [contact: Ying Ashton] MSc Geo-Energy with Machine Learning and Data Science [contact: Sophie Pirouet] To request the scholarship application form, please email the course administrator (name above).  Scholarships will provide £10,000 towards tuition fees for each successful candidate and will be awarded to candidates who demonstrate exceptional academic merit and/or potential. How to apply  To be considered for a Scholarship for one of the above MSc programmes in academic year 2024-25, please apply for the course via the Imperial College MSc graduate course admissions process by 24 May 2024, and complete the scholarship application form by 11am (UK time) on 7 June 2024. ESE is pleased to offer a departmental scholarship available to women for an MSc plus PhD, for 2023 entry. The scholarship will be awarded to women who demonstrate exceptional academic merit and/or potential and are open to Home and Overseas applicants. The Scholarship will cover tuition fees for Home or Overseas students and a bursary for the one-year MSc course, followed by a fully-funded stipend at 3.5 year UKRI (plus 3 years tuition at OS rate) PhD in the Department of Earth Science and Engineering. To be eligible for a scholarship, candidates must fulfil the course’s eligibility criteria and must have submitted an application for the MSc course through the Imperial College MSc programme admissions process including submitting all required documents. MSc Applied Computational Science and Engineering [contact: Ying Ashton]MSc Environmental Data Science and Machine Learning [contact: Ying Ashton]MSc Geo-Energy with Machine Learning and Data Science [contact: Sophie Pirouet] To be considered for a Scholarship for one of the above MSc programmes in academic year 2023-24, please: Students will have the chance to participate in individual and group research projects as well as to write reports and present technical work, developing the project management and numerical skills that are desired by employers. The study programme consists of eight taught modules, and one individual research project which accounts for one third of the study programme.  Term 1 Modern programming methods Modelling dynamical processes Numerical methods Applying computational science Term 2 Advanced programmingPatterns for parallel programmingInversion and optimisationMachine learning Term 3 (summer)Independent Research Project, example project titles include:  A numerical study of the interaction between hydraulic fractures and natural fractures Coupled multiphase SPH-DEM simulations of an aerated fluidized bed Multi-material Interface Tracking in a Three-Dimensional Shock Physics Code Predicting fracture growth on Jupiter’s icy satellite Europa using finite element modelling Traffic congestion recognition based on remote sensing images and machine learning You can see the teaching schedule represented visually below. If you would like an accessible version of this information, please contact ESE webmaster. Graduates of this course will fill the market demand for those with applied, hands-on computational experience who can solve real world problems. Through the combination of programming, foundational domain knowledge and advanced numerical literacy that this course provides, graduates will be highly sought after to work as expert analysts in industry, for example, in geoscience, risk management or climate science. Graduates will be in an ideal position to pursue academic careers in fields such as computational techniques, optimisation and inversion, fluid mechanics, and machine learning applications. This immersive, hands-on MSc course will enable students to develop their skills and techniques for a range of science and engineering applications utilising High Performance Computing resources. Students will learn alongside world-class researchers in the Department of Earth Science and Engineering. There will be a strong emphasis on high productivity problem solving using modern computational methods and technologies, including computer code development and parallel algorithms. Applicants who want to pursue analytical careers in industries across science and engineering are a target for this course. Graduates will develop the skills necessary to enter the modern industrial workforce. This MSc will also prepare for your PhD studies in fields such as computational techniques, simulation, numerical modelling, optimisation and inversion, heat transfer, and machine learning applications. The Applied Computational Science and Engineering MSc programme will ensure that students are able to apply appropriate computational techniques to understand, define and develop solutions to a range of science and engineering problems. You will have the chance to participate in individual and group research projects as well as to write reports and present technical work, developing the project management and numerical skills desired by employers. Teaching staff for the Applied Computational Science and Engineering MSc include: Dr Gareth Collins, Dr Saskia Goes, Dr Gerard Gorman (Course Director), Prof Joanna Morgan, Prof Stephen Neethling, Dr Adriana Paluszny, Prof Matthew Piggott, Prof Michael Warner We strive to increase and broaden inclusivity and support everyone, regardless of background, in breaking down any barriers to you applying to the Department. If you are unable to pay a course’s application fee, we encourage you to apply for a fee waiver. If you are interested in an MSc and wish to apply for a fee waiver, please contact ese-msc-acse@imperial.ac.uk prior to starting your application.Please note that even if you don’t have prior experience in all of the areas above, but think your background and skills are a good fit for the programme and are excited about developing your skills in computational science with a strong focus on solving real world science and engineering problems, please don’t hesitate to contact the course administrator to find out more and discuss. Find out more about postgraduate study at Imperial College London, including tuition fees, admissions and how to apply.  With any queries about the course, please email ese-msc-acse@imperial.ac.uk. For more information about multi-mode delivery, your learning experience and the steps we’ll be taking to keep you safe on campus, please see our Covid-19 information for applicants and offer holders page or contact ese-msc-acse@imperial.ac.uk. South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ Undergraduate admission enquiriesPostgraduate enquiries 
Imperial College LondonSouth Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ, UKtel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111


                Campuses & maps
                
