If you are an Individual Investor and you have queries in respect of your investment in Morgan Stanley Investment Management products, you should contact your Financial Adviser. 
If you are unable to contact your Financial Advisor and require assistance, please send an email to cslux@morganstanley.com 
                        Account Access
                        
 

                    Individual Investor
                    
 

                    United States
                    
 United States Chile Latin America & Americas Offshore Peru Australia China Hong Kong SAR Japan Singapore Austria Belgium Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Sweden Switzerland United Kingdom 
			 
 United States Chile Latin America & Americas Offshore Peru Australia China Hong Kong SAR Japan Singapore Austria Belgium Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Sweden Switzerland United Kingdom 

                    Individual Investor
                    
 
                        Account Access
                        
 
 
 Applied Equity Advisors is an unconstrained, flexible global core manager seeking to drive excess returns, regardless of style or regional market leadership. The Applied Equity Advisors team, part of our Solutions & Multi-Assets capability, seeks to combine the best of fundamental and quantitative approaches to investing to deliver highly active, style-flexible, concentrated portfolios with heavy emphasis on risk-control techniques throughout the investment process.  The experience and judgment of its portfolio managers serve as an overlay to both the portfolio style positioning and the final stock selection. Team information may change from time to time. The information on this page is solely for informational purposes only. It is intended for the benefit of third party issuers and those seeking information about alternatives investment strategies. The information contained herein does not constitute and should not be construed as an offering of advisory services or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities, insurance or other laws of such jurisdiction. All investing involves risks, including a loss of principal. Alternative investments are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. These investments are designed for investors who understand and are willing to accept these risks. Performance may be volatile, and an investor could lose all or a substantial portion of his or her investment. Please refer to the strategy detail page for important information on the strategy, including additional risk considerations. This is a Marketing Communication.
 This is a Marketing Communication. 
								Check the background of our firm and registered representatives on FINRA's BrokerCheck
 
							It is important that users read the Terms of Use before proceeding as it explains certain legal and regulatory restrictions applicable to the dissemination of information pertaining to Morgan Stanley Investment Management's investment products.
						 
							The services described on this website may not be available in all jurisdictions or to all persons. For further details, please see our Terms of Use.
						 
Subscriptions    •    
						Privacy & Cookies    •   
						Your Privacy Choices     •   
						Terms of Use
 ©  Morgan Stanley. All rights reserved. Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc. Member FINRA/SIPC.