
												  																			Applied Mathematics
																		Bachelor of Science Degree
 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 RIT’s applied mathematics bachelor’s degree focuses on mathematically analyzing and solving problems such as models for perfecting global positioning systems, analyzing cost-effectiveness in manufacturing processes, or improving digital encryption software. 
                    83%
 
                      Outcomes Rate of RIT Graduates from this degree
                      
 
$63.1K
                   
                      Average First-Year Salary of RIT Graduates from this degree
                     
#3
                     
                            
Ranking for Mathematicians on Best Business Jobs List, U.S. News & World Report
 Mathematicians use theory, computational techniques, algorithms, and the latest computer technology to solve economic, scientific, engineering, physics, and business problems. Applied mathematics starts with a practical problem, envisions its separate elements, and then reduces the elements to mathematical variables. Applied mathematicians often use computers to analyze relationships among the variables, and they solve complex problems by developing models with alternative solutions. RIT’s applied mathematics bachelor’s degree focuses on the study and solution of problems that can be mathematically analyzed across industrial fields and research disciplines. While studying applied mathematics, you will gain the knowledge and skills to collaborate on complex problems with scientists, engineers, computer specialists, and other analysts. Some areas in which you will practice applied mathematics include: In RIT’s applied mathematics bachelor’s degree, you’ll collaborate with a faculty researcher on a variety of projects in both applied and theoretical mathematics providing you with valuable exposure to real-world problems faced by America's top companies and research organizations. As a result, RIT undergraduates in mathematics are highly sought after for co-op positions. You’ll also have the opportunity to work with researchers in the School of Mathematics and Statistics studying interesting problems in areas such as computational photonics, mathematical biology, microelectromechanical systems, and network analysis. RIT’s science co-ops include cooperative education and internships, lab work, undergraduate research, and clinical experience in health care settings. These opportunities provide hands-on experience that enables you to apply your scientific, math, and health care knowledge in a professional setting, while you make valuable connections between classwork and real-world applications. Today’s careers require advanced degrees grounded in real-world experience. RIT’s Combined Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Degrees enable you to earn both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in as little as five years of study, all while gaining the valuable hands-on experience that comes from co-ops, internships, research, study abroad, and more. RIT’s School of Mathematics and Statistics introduces applied mathematics bachelor’s degree students to rigorous advanced applied mathematical and statistical methodology as a tool in the study of exciting problems in science, business, and industry. Many undergraduate students choose to continue their education with one of RIT's advanced degrees in mathematics, such as: 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 What’s different about an RIT education? It’s the career experience you gain by completing cooperative education and internships with top companies in every single industry. You’ll earn more than a degree. You’ll gain real-world career experience that sets you apart. It’s exposure–early and often–to a variety of professional work environments, career paths, and industries.  Co-ops and internships take your knowledge and turn it into know-how. Science co-ops include a range of hands-on experiences, from co-ops and internships and work in labs to undergraduate research and clinical experience in health care settings. These opportunities provide the hands-on experience that enables you to apply your scientific, math, and health care knowledge in professional settings while you make valuable connections between classwork and real-world applications. The Office of Career Services and Cooperative Education offers National Labs and federally-funded Research Centers from all research areas and sponsoring agencies a variety of options to connect with and recruit students. Students connect with employer partners to gather information on their laboratories and explore co-op, internship, research, and full-time opportunities.  These national labs focus on scientific discovery, clean energy development, national security, technology advancements, and more. Recruiting events include our university-wide Fall Career Fair, on-campus and virtual interviews, information sessions, 1:1 networking with lab representatives, and a National Labs Resume Book available to all labs. Explore Undergraduate Research, Discover a Passion, Land a Career 
											Tyler Godat ’16 (physics and applied math)									 
							
																								Tyler Godat ’16 chose RIT because of its reputation for undergraduate research, co-ops, and internships. Now, he is an optical measurements engineer at Corning.
																					 RIT Students Get The Edge They Need With Co-ops 
											Kylie Pleakis ’19 (applied mathematics)									 
							
																								Kylie Pleakis ‘19 chose RIT for the mathematics program and competitive racing. The co-op program was an added bonus that gave her the edge she needed to start her career.
																					 Your Partners in Success: Meet Our Faculty, Dr. Wong 
											Dr. Tony Wong									 
							
																								Mathematics is a powerful tool for answering questions. From mitigating climate risks to splitting the dinner bill, Professor Wong shows students that math is more than just a prerequisite.
																					 Current Students: See Curriculum Requirements Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students will satisfy this requirement by taking either University Physics I (PHYS-211) and University Physics II (PHYS-212) or General & Analytical Chemistry I and Lab (CHMG-141/145) and General & Analytical Chemistry II and Lab (CHMG-142/146) or General Biology I and Lab (BIOL-101/103) and General Biology II and Lab (BIOL-102/104).   The curriculum below outlines the typical course sequence(s) for combined accelerated degrees available with this bachelor's degree. Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. * Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students will satisfy this requirement by taking either University Physics I (PHYS-211) and University Physics II (PHYS-212) or General & Analytical Chemistry I and Lab (CHMG-141/145) and General & Analytical Chemistry II and Lab (CHMG-142/146) or General Biology I and Lab (BIOL-101/103) and General Biology II and Lab (BIOL-102/104). Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students will satisfy this requirement by taking either University Physics I (PHYS-211) and University Physics II (PHYS-212) or General & Analytical Chemistry I and Lab (CHMG-141/145) and General & Analytical Chemistry II and Lab (CHMG-142/146) or General Biology I and Lab (BIOL-101/103) and General Biology II and Lab (BIOL-102/104).  
						This program is
						STEM designated
						when studying on campus and full time. A strong performance in a college preparatory program is expected. This includes: Transfer course recommendations without associate degree
Courses in liberal arts, physics, math, and chemistry Appropriate associate degree programs for transfer
AS degree in liberal arts with math/science option 
Learn How to Apply
 
100% of all incoming first-year and transfer students receive aid.
 RIT’s personalized and comprehensive financial aid program includes scholarships, grants, loans, and campus employment programs. When all these are put to work, your actual cost may be much lower than the published estimated cost of attendance.
Learn more about financial aid and scholarships
 
              Michael
              Cromer
             
              Kara
              Maki
             
              Carl
              Lutzer
             
              Akhtar
              Khan
             Many students join research teams and engage in research projects starting as early as their first year. Participation in applied mathematics research leads to the development of real-world skills, enhanced problem-solving techniques, and broader career opportunities. Our students have opportunities to travel to national conferences for presentations and also become contributing authors on peer-reviewed manuscripts. Explore the variety of mathematics and statistics undergraduate research projects happening across the university. 
			June 26, 2024
		 
						Student completes project with international company through RIT’s global connections
					 Reagan Brenneman ’24 (applied mathematics) had the opportunity to combine her multiple areas of study into an international experience working for the company Saponia in Croatia. 
			February 22, 2024
		 
						RIT researchers highlight the changing connectivity of the Amazon rainforest to global climate
					 The Amazon rainforest is a unique region where climatologists have studied the effects of warming and deforestation for decades. With the global climate crisis becoming more evident, a new study is linking the Amazon to climate change around the rest of the world. 
			December 6, 2023
		 
						SHED serves new generation of makers, performers, and active learners					 With its five extra-large classrooms, seven makerspaces, performing arts studios, and glass box theater, the $120 million SHED complex is made for a new generation of RIT students who see themselves as makers and doers, performers, and active learners. Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			