From toast toppings to desserts and smoothies, avocado is often touted as a health food. Registered nutritionist Jo Lewin takes us through the nutritional highlights of this versatile fruit Interested in trying our FREE 7-day healthy diet plan? Click here and choose between our meat eaters', vegetarian or vegan meal plans. The popularity of avocado is down to its rich, creamy texture and mild flavour. The avocado, or Persea americana, is a fruit that belongs to the family of lauraceae; a group that also includes members such as cinnamon and laurel. There are dozens of varieties of avocado, ranging in size, colour and texture. All are native to tropical climates and, when harvested, the flesh softens to a buttery texture that has become extremely popular in everything from dips to desserts. 1. Good source of vitamin E and folate2. May lower blood pressure3. May help to manage cholesterol4. Increases feelings of fullness5. Help to keep eyes healthy Discover our full range of health benefit guides and check out some of our favourite healthy avocado recipes including smashed avocados on toast, salsa and classic guacamole. An 80g portion of avocado contains: Avocados have been commended as an example of a nutrient-dense food, with one half of the fruit counting towards your five-a-day. Avocados are an excellent source of monounsaturated fat and vitamin E, and are a good source of folate. They also supply more soluble fibre than other fruit and contain a number of useful minerals including iron, copper and potassium. Avocados are high in fat with 60 per cent of this being monounsaturated fats, which research suggests helps to protect against heart disease and lower blood pressure. They are also an excellent source of potassium, folate and fibre, all of which benefit the heart and cardiovascular system. The oils supplied by avocado include oleic acid and linoleic acid. These unsaturated fats are recommended as part of a balanced diet to help manage cholesterol. There is no doubt that the calorie content of avocados is greater than other fruits and vegetables. However, an interesting study has shown that the fat and fibre content of avocados leads to feelings of satiety which helps to regulate appetite. Alongside the benefits outlined above, avocados are a rich source of protective vitamin E, as well as carotenes including lutein and zeaxanthin, which are thought to help keep the eyes healthy. Avocado on toast is a fairly healthy brunch choice compared to other items on the menu, such as a sugary pancakes. Exactly how healthy is is depends on the bread you choose and any extra toppings. Opt for smoked salmon or a poached egg to increase the good fats in your meal. For the bread, go for something seeded, wholegrain or rye instead of white bread, which will send your blood sugar soaring. Read our guide on the healthiest breads to find out more. It's also important to be aware of the environmental impact of eating avocados, not only due to transportation around the world but also the amount of water used to grow them. For both your health and the health of the planet, it's important to eat a wide range of fruits and vegetables and try to shop local where you can. Some sensitive individuals may experience allergy to avocado. This includes an oral allergy which may be triggered by a cross-reaction to birch pollen. A rarer allergic response may occur if you have a latex allergy – if this is relevant to you, refer to your GP for guidance. Avocado, along with fruits including apples, peaches, raspberries and blueberries, contain natural chemicals called salicylates. Some people are sensitive to these compounds and may experience an allergic reaction including skin rashes and swelling. There's a lot of hype around avocados and rightly so. They're packed with nutrients like potassium and vitamin E, which supports healthy eyes. Yes, they're considerably high in calories compared to other fruits, but this is what contributes to feelings of fullness. Plus, the monounsaturated fats in avocados have been shown to benefit the heart and cardiovascular system. If you are concerned about food allergies or have any other concerns, please consult your GP or registered dietitian for guidance. Avocado saladBest ever chunky guacamoleAvocado panzanellaJapanese salmon & avocado riceSpicy chicken & avocado wrapsChunky tomato & avocado salsaMore healthy ways with avocado Top 5 health benefits of garlic Top 5 health benefits of carrots Top 5 health benefits of canned tuna  Jo Lewin is a registered nutritionist (RNutr) with the Association for Nutrition with a specialism in public health. Follow her on Twitter @nutri_jo. All health content on goodfood.com is provided for general information only, and should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own doctor or any other health care professional. If you have any concerns about your general health, you should contact your local health care provider. See our website terms and conditions for more information. Save 20% on your first two curated recipe boxes. Enjoy Good Food Magazine delivered to your door Search, save and sort your favourite recipes and view them offline. Join the Good Food Wine Club