International Energy Agency executive director Fatih Birol calls energy efficiency the “first fuel.” As well as reducing energy consumption and cutting greenhouse gas emissions, improved energy efficiency can also cut energy costs, bringing multiple benefits in environmental, energy and economic terms. Saving 1 kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity is definitely better than using it. Electricity generation uses a large amount of energy resources and Taiwan’s limited production of energy resources means that generating more electricity would make the country even more dependent on imported energy resources than it already is.  In addition, electricity generation inevitably involves energy conversion losses, and line losses occur during the transmission and distribution of electricity from the power plant to the consumer. This means that using 1kWh of electricity requires generating more than 1kWh, which causes a greater negative impact on our ecology and environment. Furthermore, investment in energy-saving equipment not only produces benefit in the same year, but can go on saving electricity year after year throughout the useful life of the equipment. So, if policies continue to encourage investment in energy conservation, the cumulative energy savings would be substantial. There is a worldwide consensus about the importance of energy efficiency for achieving net zero carbon emissions. Countries around the world are busy setting energy efficiency targets as one of their policies for achieving net zero.  For example, the EU considers energy efficiency to be a key strategy for energy saving and carbon reduction, and the EU’s Energy Efficiency Directive sets a target of reducing energy consumption in 2030 by 15.8 percent compared with 2020. Although France generates nearly 70 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, its National Low-Carbon Strategy includes plans to significantly improve energy efficiency in industrial, residential and transport, and other sectors. Another example is Japan, whose Sixth Basic Energy Plan sets an ambitious target of reducing electricity demand in 2030 by 20 percent compared with 2013. Taiwan’s government deserves credit for its aggressive promotion of energy saving measures to comply with international standards. This should not be ignorantly misrepresented as power shortages.  For example, based on the 2013 initiative to keep air conditioner temperatures at a moderate level, this year the government has gone a step further by setting a target ambient temperature of 23°C during meal times and 26°C at other times, which is expected to be met by 32 companies at more than 1,300 locations. To meet this target, these companies can obtain corporate specialist diagnosis and guidance from a team of experts. Air conditioners and refrigerators are the main users of electricity in Taiwan’s residential sector. To improve the efficiency of home appliances, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has launched a subsidy scheme for replacing old appliances, offering up to NT$3,000 for each air conditioner or refrigerator replaced by an inverter-type unit that is rated in the top tier of the official five-tier energy efficiency scale. Widespread installation of smart meters, combined with home and building energy management systems, would allow people to use a mobile phone app to adjust the timing of their domestic electricity consumption in accordance with the time-based tariff, thus achieving the dual effect of saving electricity and reducing peak consumption.  Changing to inverter-type home appliances, installing smart meters and developing energy management systems can promote the development of Taiwan’s energy-saving industry at the same time as saving energy for the whole nation. The government is joining hands with industry and the public to promote energy saving, combining everyone’s strength to cut the risk of global climate change and advance toward the goal of net zero emissions. We should give the authorities credit for these efforts, rather than weakening the impetus of energy conservation by unfairly portraying energy saving measures as power shortages. Lin Faa-jeng is a chair professor in National Central University’s Department of Electrical Engineering. Translated by Julian Clegg 

                                                                                War, possibly global, will define the coming decade — so it is crucial that Taiwanese decide now what their freedom and their lives are worth — perhaps starting with a defense budget of 5 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
The force that threatens Taiwan, the Communist Party of China (CCP) and its People’s Liberation Army (PLA), asserts that a free, or even worse, an “independent” Taiwan is the greatest threat to the CCP’s dictatorship.
Accordingly, they are prepared to kill Taiwanese by the millions, which also will initiate their longer war against democracies.
Should it succeed, Chinese sources are all but openly                                     

                                                                                Last week, the South China Morning Post reported that Chinese academics and strategists have proposed the creation of a “shadow government” for Taiwan. The plan involves setting up a fully prepared administrative body, referred to as the “Central Taiwan Work Committee,” which would be ready to take over in Taiwan immediately upon unification — whether achieved through peaceful means or military action. The proposal emphasizes the committee’s role in swiftly assuming control of the island’s administration if unification were to occur.
The proposed committee would handle tasks such as currency conversion and infrastructure integration between Taiwan and China, while also encouraging                                     

                                                                                Vincent Gao (高志凱), vice president of the Center for China and Globalization and former interpreter for Deng Xiaoping (鄧小平) recently gave an interview with al-Jazeera’s Mehdi Hasan in which Gao appeared overwhelmed on multiple occasions. 
When asked about sensitive topics such as Taiwan and Xinjiang, Gao attempted to adhere to the official position of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), but quickly succumbed to Hasan’s precise and consistent questioning, which exposed the flaws in the CCP’s positions. His views on unification with Taiwan were also widely criticized.
Throughout the interview, Gao reiterated the importance of “one China.” He said it is “not                                     

                                                                                Amid China’s escalating military harassment of Taiwan, a teaser released on July 23 of the new TV series Zero Day (零日攻擊), a local production portraying a Chinese attack on Taiwan, attracted more than 1 million views in a week, sparking an emotional response and discussions across the nation.
Partly funded by the government and scheduled to air next year, ‘Zero Day’ depicts a Chinese warplane disappearing in the Taiwan Strait and China using the search as an excuse to mount a naval blockade of Taiwan and launch an invasion. The 17-minute trailer shows clips how Beijing could increase its choke hold                                    