ARAMARK Holdings (ARMK – Research Report) received a Buy rating and a  price target from Citi analyst Leo Carrington today. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $37.18. According to TipRanks, Carrington is ranked #3424 out of 8477 analysts. ARAMARK Holdings has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $45.30, a 21.84% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 22, UBS also upgraded the stock to a Buy with a $43.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on ARAMARK Holdings’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending June 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $4.75 billion and a net profit of $338.48 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $4.13 billion and had a net profit of $40.33 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Aramark engages in the provision of food, facilities, and uniform services. It operates through the following segments: Food and Support Services United States (FSS United States); Food and Support Services International (FSS International); and Uniform. The FSS United States segment offers food, hospitality and facility services for school districts, colleges and universities, healthcare facilities, businesses, sports, entertainment and recreational venues, conference and convention centers, national and state parks, and correctional institutions. The FSS International segment covers food, refreshment, specialized dietary and support services, including facility maintenance and housekeeping, provided to business, educational and healthcare institutions and in sports, leisure, and other facilities serving the general public. The Uniform segment comprises of rental, sale, cleaning, maintenance, and delivery of personalized uniforms and other textile items on a contract basis, and direct marketing of personalized uniforms, and accessories to clients. The company was founded in 1959 and is headquartered in Philadelphia, PA.  Read More on ARMK: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks