Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Adobe shares rose 6% in extended trading on Thursday after the design software maker announced fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and guidance that exceeded analysts' expectations. Here's how the company did: Total revenue grew 10% year over year in the quarter, which ended on Dec. 2, according to a statement. In the previous quarter revenue rose by 13%. Net income, at $1.18 billion, was down slightly from $1.23 billion in the year-ago quarter. "We delivered record operating cash flows with a focus on profitability," CEO Shantanu Narayen told analysts on a conference call. He said the company is remaining cautious and won't be immune from a worsening economy. With respect to guidance, Adobe called for $3.65 to $3.70 in adjusted earnings per share on $4.60 billion to $4.64 billion in revenue in the fiscal first quarter. Analysts polled by Refinitiv had expected $3.64 in adjusted earnings per share and $4.64 billion in revenue. The numbers don't include impact from Figma. The company maintained its guidance for the full 2023 fiscal year. Adobe's Digital Media business, which includes Creative Cloud design software subscriptions, contributed $3.30 billion in revenue, not quite meeting the StreetAccount consensus of $3.31 billion. Creative revenue grew 8% in the quarter. The Digital Experience unit, which includes Adobe's marketing software, delivered $1.15 billion in revenue, just over the $1.14 billion StreetAccount consensus. The digital experience business succeeded in closing "numerous transformational deals that span our portfolio of solutions," Anil Chakravarthy, president of the division, said on the call. In the quarter Adobe said it would buy design software startup Figma for about $20 billion in the 40-year-old public company's largest transaction to date. "Overall, the regulatory process is proceeding as expected," said David Wadhwani, president of the Digital Media business. The U.S. Justice Department and the United Kingdom's Competition and Markets Authority is reviewing the deal, and Adobe still expects it to close in 2023, Wadhwani said. One analyst asked how Figma is handling the current economic environment. But for now FIgma is still a private company, and Adobe isn't able to discuss Figma's latest performance, Narayen said. When removing the effect of the after-hours move, Adobe shares have slid 42% this year, while the S&P 500 index has declined 18% over the same period. WATCH: Adobe forecasts a 5.3% rise in Cyber Monday sales year-over-year Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by