What Are the Best Tech Gadgets to Gift in Christmas 2023 G20 Summit Uses Technology for Seamless Event Management  AI-Driven Home Gadgets to Buy in 2023 SteelSeries Arctis 1 Headphones: An Honest Review The JBL Tune 510 BT: An Honest Student Review 7 Best Offline Games for iPhone in 2024 Top 10 Best WWE Games For Android  2023 Immerse Yourself in a Game for Real, But Watch Out Is Shahrukh Right For Endorsing Rummy Online in India?  Pick the Best Video Editing App for Instagram Reels in 2023 How to Make Money on Amazon without Selling? How to Sell My Domain on Godaddy? Which Web Hosting is Best for Small Businesses in 2023 What is the Best Minecraft Server Host in 2023 How Much Does GoDaddy Charge to Sell a Domain? When You Don’t Pay for a Service, Revenue Comes From Elsewhere So Be Cautious: Dell Architect Romain Bottier ‘Digital Twins: The Future of AI with MetaHumans’ In Conversation with Dell EMC Architect Romain Bottier TechThirsty YouTube Channel Launch Great Women Tech Leaders Are Made of These! HealthTech in India & The Role of Startups with Tushar Kansal Venture Capitalist Vandana Tolani Unveils the Future of Fintech and Blockchain “Circular Business Models: Digital Innovations Are Driving Sustainability” Is VR A Good Enough Replacement to the Trial Room? Expert Talk EXCLUSIVE: Nurturing Cyber Security Talent – Trishneet Arora Envisions India’s Future Tech-security  What Are the Best Tech Gadgets to Gift in Christmas 2023 G20 Summit Uses Technology for Seamless Event Management  AI-Driven Home Gadgets to Buy in 2023 SteelSeries Arctis 1 Headphones: An Honest Review The JBL Tune 510 BT: An Honest Student Review 7 Best Offline Games for iPhone in 2024 Top 10 Best WWE Games For Android  2023 Immerse Yourself in a Game for Real, But Watch Out Is Shahrukh Right For Endorsing Rummy Online in India?  Pick the Best Video Editing App for Instagram Reels in 2023 How to Make Money on Amazon without Selling? How to Sell My Domain on Godaddy? Which Web Hosting is Best for Small Businesses in 2023 What is the Best Minecraft Server Host in 2023 How Much Does GoDaddy Charge to Sell a Domain? When You Don’t Pay for a Service, Revenue Comes From Elsewhere So Be Cautious: Dell Architect Romain Bottier ‘Digital Twins: The Future of AI with MetaHumans’ In Conversation with Dell EMC Architect Romain Bottier TechThirsty YouTube Channel Launch Great Women Tech Leaders Are Made of These! HealthTech in India & The Role of Startups with Tushar Kansal Venture Capitalist Vandana Tolani Unveils the Future of Fintech and Blockchain “Circular Business Models: Digital Innovations Are Driving Sustainability” Is VR A Good Enough Replacement to the Trial Room? Expert Talk EXCLUSIVE: Nurturing Cyber Security Talent – Trishneet Arora Envisions India’s Future Tech-security  Mobile devices have become prone to malware attacks more than ever. Nonetheless, it is a security concern. The DoT or Department of Telecommunications has come up with solutions to thwart this issue and assist people in safeguarding their mobile phones, laptops, and computers. The agency introduced various free tools for bot removal. Simultaneously, the Government of India is reaching out to people through SMS to spread awareness about the same. You may have received an SMS that read, “Stay Cyber Safe! To protect your device from botnet infections and malware, the Government of India, through CERT-In, recommends downloading the ‘Free Bot Removal Tool’ at csk.gov.in.” It has been sent by the DoT in collaboration with GoI. People can access the free malware detection tools through the Cyber Swachhta Kendra portal. It is also identified as the Botnet Cleaning and Malware Analysis Center. This portal operates in collaboration with antivirus companies and ISPs (Internet Service Providers). The portal is managed by CERT-In (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team). Users would find tools and information to secure their devices or systems on the website. Through the portal, the GoI aims to establish and promote a secure cyberspace. The Cyber Swachhta Kendra portal would help to identify or detect botnet infections actively within India. Other security applications offered in the CSK portal that you can take advantage of include AppSamvid, USB Pratirodh, etc. These tools can further enhance the security of any device. USB Pratirodh is specially made for desktop computers or laptops to control the usage of removable storage media like pen drives, phones, etc. The tool needs the users to provide a username and password whenever a new device is connected to the desktop or laptop for authentication purposes. The tool would then scan the USB device for the presence of malware as well as encrypts data. Further, it also allows changes to read or write permissions. This application is meant for Windows users. This tool runs approved files only on the OS. The users are prompted to create a list of trusted Java files and executables. People can secure the tool with a password as well. AppSamvid is designed to protect the system from trojans, viruses, and other malware. If you take the necessary precautions, your device could remain safe. And in case, your device gets infected, it is suggested to use tools from trusted sources like the tools introduced by the Government of India. Comments are closed. our aim is to bring you the latest and the best in technology. Covering the latest trends and the latest news, the best technologies, the best apps, the best softwares, the best gadgets.. ALL THINGS TECH.  Website Technical Support by 24x7remotesupport © Copyright - 2023 woocommerce support woocommerce support