As the co-founder of Puzzle Partner, Ivana is an advocate for innovation with marketing expertise in technology, travel and startups.   Self-service has become a core part of our daily interactions, but is there a hidden price for this enhanced convenience? This year, I traveled extensively and was struck by the minimal human contact during my trips. From reservations to check-ins and departures, everything was automated. I booked my vacation rental through Vacasa entirely on their app. Both Southwest Airlines and Air Canada processed transactions digitally. At the luxury resort, most interactions were digital, and Hertz offered an entirely self-service experience. Even customs between the U.S. and Canada were facilitated through apps and kiosks. As much as I appreciate the speed, control and convenience that self-service provides, I was traveling alone, and even as an introvert, I would have liked a more personal experience. This inspired me to explore how self-service technology will transform travel in the future. Over the past 15 years, I have worked with some of the world's leading hotel and travel technology innovators to identify growth opportunities. In that time, I've learned that staying on top of the shifting dynamics of traveler behavior is crucial to success. Self-service, driven by the digital transformation of travel services, has been one of the most significant industry shifts in recent years. With self-service, travelers have more autonomy, can interact at their own pace, and can save time. On the flip side, how does this emergence of technology affect human relationships? The self-service trend is widespread. A survey earlier this year by PlayUSA found that 62% of respondents prefer self-service over face-to-face interactions. The same study revealed that the younger generations are more accepting of self-service: 84% of Gen Z and 76% of millennials prefer using tech-based kiosks and checkouts. Meanwhile, 57% of Gen X and 46% of baby boomers like it. The survey results support the need for travel companies to take actions that create positive digital-first interactions now and lay the groundwork for exceeding the expectations of younger travelers as they gain more buying power. Advanced conversational AI and other new technologies can deliver the capabilities to create next-generation self-service experiences. The potential benefits of self-service technologies include improved efficiency, lower costs and an improved user experience, yet these technologies raise complex questions. Though 62% of PlayUSA's survey respondents said they like that self-service options are replacing human interactions, 67% think it hinders us from making genuine connections with others. For the travel industry, the key is to find a balance between self-service and personal interaction. It's essential to make sure travelers feel empowered and supported. Here are some ways that the travel industry can achieve this: 1. Introduce stations where travelers can choose to use a self-service kiosk or get assistance from a representative. 2. Utilize AI-powered chatbots for handling customer inquiries. If a question is too complex for the chatbot, it can smoothly transfer the conversation to an agent. 3. Offer holographic concierge services backed by human attendants for individuals who prefer in-person consultations. 4. Implement help buttons or stations, allowing travelers to press a button to summon staff members for in-person assistance if needed. There's no question: Travel is becoming more of a DIY experience. Expedia recently announced a new in-app travel planning experience powered by ChatGPT, allowing users to get AI travel recommendations. Kayak also said it would begin using ChatGPT to help customers plan trips. However, it is essential to consider the reasons for customers wanting self-service. While 71% of PlayUSA survey respondents said they prefer self-service because it's faster, 60% said they use it because it means less human contact. The finding that non-human customer service is becoming more important doesn't come as a surprise. Still, it does mean that travel businesses must ensure consumers have the autonomy they desire without compromising service quality. By providing options like user-friendly online tools, swift mobile ticketing and boarding processes, AI-driven chatbots and virtual concierges, contactless payment methods, automated baggage systems, and the use of QR codes to provide instant access to essential information, travel brands further enrich the self-service experience, ensuring travelers have the tools they need without unnecessary interactions. Travel brands that want to win will start shifting their marketing strategies to meet customers where they are: on their smartphones. According to data from Business of Apps, "There were slightly over one billion travel app users in 2022, with approximately 1.5 billion people taking trips worldwide and more than 75% using a smartphone or website to book." Just this year, Alaska Airlines removed check-in kiosks at nine airports and told customers to use Alaska's app to download boarding passes or print them at home. It's part of Alaska's $2.5 billion plan for "a more seamless" travel experience. Executives in the travel industry can tap into this trend by offering personalized mobile apps that allow customers to plan and customize their travel itineraries. Mobile apps can also provide on-demand assistance, special offers, and seamless communication to enhance the travel experience. In recent years, the travel industry has rapidly adopted self-service technology, offering travelers unprecedented convenience and speed. Although a majority of individuals, particularly the younger generation, prefer tech-driven services, there is evident concern about the dwindling opportunities for genuine human interaction. The travel experience has been truly transformed by technology like self-service, AI chatbots and mobile apps, but there is a need for industry leaders to strike a balance. The Walt Disney Company illustrates how technology, through integrating the Internet of Things (IoT) and MagicBands, can elevate customer experiences while maintaining a personal touch. Self-service and emerging new technologies may deliver great conveniences, but what is the ultimate price we are paying? It may take years to know the true impact on business and society. Still, by combining technological efficiency with the warmth of the human touch, travel industry leaders can create a seamless and fulfilling journey for their customers at every touchpoint. Forbes Agency Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? 