
Fast-food Chain Implements Self-Service Kiosks for the First Time in Partnership with Leading POS Provider
 
Engagement to Support Improved Efficiency and Streamlined Operations at Arctic Circle Locations
 SALT LAKE CITY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--TRAY, a leading provider of cloud-native enterprise-class POS systems, today announced that it has been selected as the point of sale (POS) solution provider for all Arctic Circle Restaurant corporate stores. The engagement includes the launch of self-service kiosk ordering for the growing fast-food chain with over 70 locations in Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and Nevada. Franchise locations will have the option of using TRAY’s offerings.

  
Through the partnership with TRAY, Arctic Circle Restaurants will transition to a fully cloud-based POS, while still maintaining its existing hardware and credit processing. The system's advanced reporting features will provide the restaurant chain with a detailed analysis of its sales data, helping it to make better informed decisions about its operations.

 
"TRAY's POS system provides the advanced features and capabilities that we need to run our business more efficiently," said Joe Evans, Chief Marketing Officer of Arctic Circle Restaurants. "The system's ease of use and ability to integrate with our existing hardware and systems made it the clear choice for our restaurant chain."

 
Arctic Circle will also implement TRAY's self-service kiosk system, which allows customers to place orders and pay without the assistance of a cashier. This updated system will offer reduced wait times, streamline employee tasks, and improve the overall guest experience for Arctic Circle’s customers.

 
"Today’s competitive restaurant landscape requires advanced tools that not only improve operating efficiency but create a better customer experience,” said Brian Whitney, Chief Revenue Officer of TRAY. “Arctic Circle’s forward-thinking and customer-centric focus, coupled with our cloud-based POS system and self-service kiosks will not only streamline operations and reduce costs, but also help to drive customer loyalty through improved experiences.”

 
Arctic Circle Restaurants plans to implement TRAY's POS system and self-service kiosks in all of its corporate locations by the end of 2023. For more information on TRAY and its POS solutions please visit www.TRAY.com.

 
About TRAY
 
TRAY is a leading provider of cloud-native enterprise-class POS systems for the hospitality industry. The company's mission is to empower businesses to operate more efficiently, increase revenue, and provide a better experience for their customers. TRAY's advanced POS system is used by hospitality businesses of all sizes, including restaurants, bars, and family entertainment centers. TRAY.com

 
Lara Hurst
lara.hurst@tray.com 
404.574.8507

 
Lara Hurst
lara.hurst@tray.com 
404.574.8507

