Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 26 Jan, 2023, 15:00 GMT Share this article The market report is a good combination of qualitative and quantitative data that highlights significant market changes, obstacles that business and the competition must overcome, as well as new possibilities and trends in the global Compound Chocolate Market. JERSEY CITY, N.J., Jan. 26, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Verified Market Research® recently published a report, "Compound Chocolate Market" By Flavor (Dark, White, Milk), By Form (Chocolate Chips/Drops/Chunks, Chocolate Slab), By Application (Bakery, Confectionery), and By Geography. As per the deep research carried out by Verified Market Research®, the global Compound Chocolate Market size was valued at USD 24.05 Billion in 2021 and is projected to reach USD 42.38 Billion by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 6.5% from 2023 to 2030. Download PDF Brochure: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/download-sample/?rid=32511 Browse in-depth TOC on "Compound Chocolate Market" 202 - Pages 126 – Tables 37 – Figures Global Compound Chocolate Market Overview Compound chocolate is a confection made from cocoa, vegetable fat, and sweeteners. It contains cocoa butter equivalent (CBE) or a substitute for cocoa butter (CBS). At room temperature, the compound chocolate uses less expensive hard vegetable fats such as palm kernel oil and coconut oil. It is a less expensive alternative to real chocolate, which contains costly cocoa butter. Increasing demand for compound chocolate in industrial & bakery applications due to the technical advantages of non-requirement of tempering and an easy manufacturing process is expected to drive the Compound Chocolate Market over the predicted years. Moreover, an increased price of cocoa butter, a limited supply of cocoa products in the market, and the lower price of compound chocolate expect a boost to the market in the coming years. Furthermore, new product launches, mergers & acquisitions, and partnerships are also expected to fuel market growth. For instance, in August 2018, Barry Callebaut Group launched its range of premium couverture chocolates and compounds under the Van Houten Professional brand in India. There are some limitations and difficulties that may prevent the market from expanding. The growing obesity epidemic globally is forcing consumers to cut down on their intake of chocolates, confectionery, and bakery products. Also, stringent regulations might stagnate market growth. Verified Market Research® narrows down the available data using primary sources to validate the data and use it in compiling a full-fledged market research study. The report contains a quantitative and qualitative estimation of market elements that interests the client. The "Global Compound Chocolate Market" is mainly bifurcated into sub-segments which can provide classified data regarding the latest trends in the market. Key Players The "Global Compound Chocolate Market" study report will provide valuable insight with an emphasis on the global market.  The major players in the market are Clasen Quality Chocolate, Cargill Incorporated, Aalst Wilmar Pte Ltd, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Blommer Chocolate Company, Flanders Filings & Compounds (backed by Fuji Oil Europe), Sephra, and The Barry Callebaut Group. Based on the research, Verified Market Research® has segmented the global Compound Chocolate Market into Flavor, Form, Application, and Geography. Browse Related Reports: Confectionery Ingredients Market By Type (Dairy Ingredients, Cocoa And Chocolates, Emulsifiers), By Source (Synthetic, Natural), By Form (Dry, Liquid), By Application (Gum, Sugar Confectionery), By Geography, And Forecast Dark Chocolate Market By Type (70% Cocoa Dark Chocolate, 75% Cocoa Dark Chocolate), By Product (Bitter Chocolate, Pure Bitter Chocolate), By Distribution Channel (Online Sales, Offline Sales), By Application (Beverages, Food And bakery), By Geography, And Forecast Bean-to-Bar Chocolate Market By Type (Chocolate Bean and Others), By Application (Supermarkets, Convenience Stores, Independent Retailers, Online Sales, and Others), By Geography, And Forecast Chocolate Market By Product (Dark Chocolate, Others), By Application (Chocolate Bars, Flavoring Ingredient), By Geography, And Forecast Top 7 Sugar-Free Chocolate Brands giving delight in every bite Visualize Compound Chocolate Market using Verified Market Intelligence -: Verified Market Intelligence is our BI Enabled Platform for narrative storytelling in this market. VMI offers in-depth forecasted trends and accurate Insights on over 20,000+ emerging & niche markets, helping you make critical revenue-impacting decisions for a brilliant future. VMI provides a holistic overview and global competitive landscape with respect to Region, Country, Segment, and Key players of your market. Present your Market Report & findings with an inbuilt presentation feature saving over 70% of your time and resources for Investor, Sales & Marketing, R&D, and Product Development pitches. VMI enables data delivery In Excel and Interactive PDF formats with over 15+ Key Market Indicators for your market. About Us Verified Market Research® is a leading Global Research and Consulting firm servicing over 5000+ customers. Verified Market Research® provides advanced analytical research solutions while offering information-enriched research studies. We offer insight into strategic and growth analyses, Data necessary to achieve corporate goals and critical revenue decisions. Our 250 Analysts and SMEs offer a high level of expertise in data collection and governance use industrial techniques to collect and analyze data on more than 15,000 high impact and niche markets. Our analysts are trained to combine modern data collection techniques, superior research methodology, expertise and years of collective experience to produce informative and accurate research. We study 14+ categories from Semiconductors & Electronics, Chemicals, Advanced Materials, Aerospace & Defense, Energy & Power, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Automotive & Transportation, Information & Communication Technology, Software & Services, Information Security, Mining, Minerals & Metals, Building & Construction, Agriculture industry and Medical Devices from over 100 countries. Contact Us Mr. Edwyne FernandesVerified Market Research®US: +1 (650)-781-4080UK: +44 (753)-715-0008APAC: +61 (488)-85-9400US Toll Free: +1 (800)-782-1768Email: sales@verifiedmarketresearch.comWeb: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/Follow Us: LinkedIn | Twitter Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1315349/Verified_Market_Research_Logo.jpg The Global 3D NAND Flash Memory Market Size is projected to grow at a CAGR of 19.5% from 2024 to 2031, according to a new report published by... The Global Big Data Analytics in Banking Market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 13.5% from 2024 to 2030, according to a new report published by... Food & Beverages Retail Organic Food