

                                                                            Clearing
                                                                            



 Clearing provides the perfect opportunity to secure a place at Heriot-Watt. Register for the Heriot-Watt Priority Pass to access exclusive benefits and skip the queue on results day. 

                                                                            New Students
                                                                            



 Find out how to enrol and what you can expect from your first couple of weeks as a new student. 

                                                                            Edinburgh Campus accommodation
                                                                            



 Our student accommodation is close to teaching, sports, catering and the Union. 

                                                                            Borders Campus accommodation
                                                                            



 All new entrants are guaranteed a place in University managed accommodation. 

                                                                            Visiting us?
                                                                            



 Maps and directions to our UK campuses: Edinburgh, the Scottish Borders and Orkney 

                                                                            Our Research 
                                                                            



 Find out how our pioneering research is focused on finding solutions to major global challenges. 

                                                                            Future Makers
                                                                            



 Our pioneering research delivers results with global impact. 

                                                                            Business and Enterprise
                                                                            



 Through empowering research and cross-industry collaboration, we strive to solve problems of real significance. 

                                                                            Our Sustainability
                                                                            



 We are using our global reach and innovation in teaching, research and enterprise to make a significant impact towards the attainment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Learn More. 

                                                                            Our story
                                                                            



 Since our foundation in 1821, we have been outward looking pioneers of education 

                                                                            Podcast - 'A Future Made'
                                                                            



 A podcast series by Heriot-Watt University, showcasing our innovative work in science, business, technology, design and engineering. MSc Advanced Mechanical Engineering with Industrial Application is a 2-year degree which offers practical application as well as advanced teaching in design and research in mechanical engineering. This degree is specifically for graduates with an engineering background looking to enhance their career opportunities. Students will gain the technical, scientific and managerial abilities essential for a career as a professional mechanical engineer. The programme enables students to obtain an MSc as well as gaining practical experience in an industrial setting.  Heriot-Watt University ranked 3rd in Scotland by The Complete University Guide 2021 and 2nd in Scotland by Guardian University Guide 2021 and The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2021 for Mechanical Engineering. During the 2nd year of the programme, students will have the opportunity to apply their knowledge in industry. Help will be provided, however, it is the responsibility of the student to find and apply for a suitable placement. Heriot-Watt has extensive industrial connections and you will also have access to the University's award-winning Careers Service. 96% of Heriot-Watt University's engineering research was classed as world-leading in the REF 2021 review, which ranked us 1st in Scotland and 3rd in the UK for engineering research through a joint submission with the University of Edinburgh. The Institute of Mechanical, Process and Energy Engineering promotes excellence across our main research themes: Biomedical Engineering, Energy Harvesting and Conversion, Multiphase Flow and Digital Engineering. Heriot-Watt University is the leader amongst UK universities in promoting energy activities through its 'Energy Academy', a virtual centre which connects all energy-related research across the University. In Year 1 there are two semesters of teaching which take the form of lectures, tutorials and lab work. Students study a total of eight courses, including both core and optional modules. In Year 2 students will spend one semester working on a dissertation. The second semester will be spent in an industrial setting or completing an interdisciplinary project. These two semesters are also credit bearing. Specialist Engineering Technologies 1: The first of the specialist engineering technologies courses is based on computational fluid dynamics and assessed by a group project. All students complete a Masters Dissertation. An individual project led by a research active member of staff on a current research theme with the aim of leading to the production of a journal article. This semester will be spent applying your knowledge and skills in industrial application or undertaking an interdisciplinary research project.  
						                Some of our Postgraduate Taught Masters Programmes are eligible for Inter-Campus Transfer.
                                        Please contact studywithus@hw.ac.uk for further information.
                                     Fees are payable for each year of this degree. UK and overseas: £3,000 We aim to encourage well-qualified, ambitious students to study with us and we offer a wide variety of scholarships and bursaries to achieve this. 
                    Over £6 million worth of opportunities are available in fee and stipend scholarships, and more than 400 students benefit from this support. View our full range of postgraduate scholarships. A upper second honours degree in engineering, or other relevant disciplines with a numerate background. Equivalent overseas qualifications will also be considered. If your first language is not English, or your first degree was not taught in English, we'll need to see evidence of your English language ability. The minimum requirement for English language is IELTS 6.5 or equivalent. We offer a range of English language courses to help you meet the English language requirement prior to starting your masters programme: This programme is designed to enable graduates to undertake a wide range of technical and managerial careers across the sector, e.g. process and plant design, construction, commissioning, operation, management to specialist consultancy and advanced research and development. Each year there are two university-wide recruitment fairs held and seven industry-specific recruitment and networking events, giving you the chance to meet with graduate employers and find out about opportunities. 
                        Siddheshwar Namburi
                        
                        ,
                        MSc Civil Engineering with Industrial Placement
                        
                     At Heriot-Watt University we develop degrees that are relevant for the world of work. 
                								    We work with Professional bodies and Institutes to gain appropriate Accreditations and Professional Memberships for your industry. 
                								    Find out below how this degree aligns to industry. 
 © Heriot-Watt University Edinburgh, ScotlandUK EH14 4AS+44 131 449 5111 Scottish registered charity numberSC000278 
                            Find contact details, maps and directions for:
                        