Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Following a lackluster year for tech IPOs in 2022, it's unlikely that the first half of 2023 will be much different, as many private companies look to preserve cash and extend their runways in the face of a looming recession. In total, IPO deal proceeds plummeted 94% in 2022 — from $155.8 billion to $8.6 billion — according to Ernst & Young's IPO report published in mid-December. As of the report's publication date, the fourth quarter was on pace to be the weakest of the year. The collapse of the IPO market has caused the pipeline of anticipated public listings to swell. Among those are CNBC Disruptor 50 companies like Chime, Databricks, Gopuff and cybersecurity firm Arctic Wolf, which raised $401 million in October and has reportedly been working with banks on IPO preparations since early 2022, according to Reuters. Today there are approximately 1,210 global private unicorns — companies valued at $1 billion or more — compared to less than half that in 2020 and just 950 in 2021, according to data from MKM Partners and CB Insights. MKM's Rohit Kulkarni is among the few optimists who think the IPO market could rebound later this year, spurred in part by the volume of private companies waiting in the wings to go public when capital becomes more accessible. "I think the second half of 2023 is going to look a little better than the first half, assuming that it's mostly macro-driven," Kulkarni told CNBC's "TechCheck" on Monday. He added that we're on the precipice of a "new era" for valuations that will be realized once the Federal Reserve stops hiking interest rates. According to Carta, 22% of companies, both private and public, reduced their valuations in Q3, nearly tripling year-over-year. Meanwhile, 34% of companies saw valuations rise — its lowest point of the past five years. The tech-heavy Nasdaq reported its fourth consecutive negative quarter last month for the first time since 2001. "Private company valuations are still far apart from their public market peers," Kulkarni said, adding that there's a disconnect between the valuations many companies achieved in early or late 2021 and where those companies think they're valued in today's environment. "Companies like Klarna and Instacart have taken that hit already, so perhaps those are the ones to monitor in the first half [of 2023] if they are willing to go public and be the guinea pig out there, but I think the vast majority of private companies are still thinking they can grow into the valuations they saw back in 2021." Instacart reduced its valuation from $39 billion to $24 billion in May, then to $15 billion in July, and finally to $10 billion in December, according to The Information. Klarna raised financing at a $6.7 billion valuation last year, an 85% discount to its prior valuation of $46 billion. Still, Kulkarni says "it's anybody's guess" as to what this year will hold for public listings. He estimates that there will be 40% fewer global private unicorns six months from now, but "that will be a slow process that holds the IPO market back in the first half," due to economists' anticipated moves from the Federal Reserve. Sign up for our weekly, original newsletter that goes beyond the annual Disruptor 50 list, offering a closer look at list-making companies and their innovative founders. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by