In 2022, Russian researchers found a young bison from over 8,000 years ago in Siberia. Now, they want to clone it. The bison was likely no more than two years old when it died, and is a member of an extinct species. Outside experts don't believe the DNA is preserved well enough for cloning. Cloning extinct animals seems to be all the rage right now. From a woolly mammoth to an arctic wolf, scientists are continuously crafting ways to take DNA from known specimens of extinct animals and edit genes bring them back as closed creatures. Now, Russian researchers want in on the fun, and they plan to do so with a long-lost bison species, thanks to a 2022 find. The newly discovered bison from an unknown extinct species is thought to have been around 1.5-2 years old when it died between 8,000 and 9,000 years ago, according to scientists at the Mammoth Museum of North-Eastern Federal University in Russia. Found by locals in the summer of 2022 in the Verkhoyansk district of the Arctic Circle, the bison was preserved in the permafrost. The remains included a head, forelimbs, and part of the chest. Scientists conducted a necropsy—an autopsy for animals—and took samples of soft tissue, muscles, skin, wool, and even the brain. Hwang Woo Sok, NEFU professor and director of the UAE Biotechnology Research Foundation, said in a news release that researchers are working with a unique find that could be cloned in the future thanks to selected materials. This news release was translated from Russian through the use of a free online translation service. The bison necropsy allowed the extraction of samples and scans that the Russian researchers say will continue to be analyzed and kept in the museum freezer for future investigation. Cell research has already started, with the help of Korean colleagues, the university adds. Though it is exciting to locate an extinct bison that has been well-preserved for thousands of years, one expert told Live Sciencethat there isn't enough here to make cloning a reality. "In my view, it is not going to be possible to clone extinct animals from tissues like this," Love Dalén, a paleogeneticist at Stockholm University tells Live Science. "To make cloning possible, one needs to find intact chromosomes, but what we see even in the best specimens is that each chromosome is fragmented into millions pf pieces." In fact, Dalén thinks it is so improbable that researchers will find a fully intact chromosome from the carcass that you'd have a better chance of flipping a coin and landing "heads a thousand times in a row." That's not a rousing endorsement of the cloning potential. The only plausible scenario for the successful cloning of the extinct Russian bison, Dalén says, comes from the tedious process of sequencing the bison's genome, thanks to the help of DNA from this specimen and potentially others, along with living bison. Maybe researchers are on that same path, already saying they plan to find more of these extinct bison lodged in the frozen tundra. Maxim Cheprasov, head of the NEFU Mammoth Museum, said in a news release (translated with a free online translation tool) that researchers are planning to visit the site where other remains of fossil animals may be found this summer. Get ready for a bison hunt unlike any other. You Might Also Like The Do’s and Don’ts of Using Painter’s Tape The Best Portable BBQ Grills for Cooking Anywhere Can a Smart Watch Prolong Your Life? Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."