We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Our editors test and select the best CBD gummies each month based on quality standards and their experiences with managing anxiety, sleep woes, and stress. CBD gummies are easy to dose, portable, and discreet, and they come in various flavors, making them a good choice for people looking to try CBD for the first time. Our team has been testing CBD gummies hands-on since 2022. We continue to retest many of the gummies to evaluate the flavor, experience, and effects. We also continue to monitor third-party testing results. Our editors and staff have tried all the gummies you see in this article and provided feedback to help make choosing and buying the best CBD gummies a little easier.  First, we evaluated more than 150 CBD gummies to ensure that third-party testing results are current, show no contaminants, and contain only allowable levels of THC. We also made sure the products didn’t make any outlandish, misleading health claims. Then, we chose 20 products to test and narrowed those down to these seven, which rank as the best CBD gummies in our book.  Use code “HEALTHLINE” for 30% off. *Price may vary. “I took one gummy every day for 3 weeks, usually in the evening. After taking a gummy, I felt effects around 45 mins later. “The flavor was good and not too overpowering, and I didn’t notice any earthy taste like I’ve experienced in some other CBD gummies I have tried. The peach taste of the gummies was very natural and subtle. “For me, therapy and the correct medication plan from my doctor have made a huge change in my baseline anxiety. I often still find that toward the middle or end of the day, stressors from the day increase my symptoms of anxiety. The only herbal remedies that have worked for me to add on at the end of the day are CBD products. “I often feel physical strain on my body from my anxiety, and these gummies help take the edge off and put my mind and body in a calmer state, while still keeping me fully functional and alert, unlike other remedies and treatments I have tried.” — Heather Riesebeck, Healthline team member (tried the gummies for anxiety and sleep) “The Cornbread Berry Gummies were some of the best tasting CBD gummies I’ve had so far. The berry taste is deep and fruity and manages to mask the CBD and THC taste really well. It also has a really good texture that melts in your mouth. The sugar crystals aren’t too much, as they can be with other gummies. “I tried it for 2 days. The first night, I tried 1 gummy (25 mg CBD, 1 mg THC) and the second night I tried 2 gummies (50 mg CBD, 2 mg THC). I took the gummies at night since it did cause me to feel a low level of highness. “On the first day, I felt the effects within 2 hours. I felt a little high and sleepy, though my mind did race a bit, making me sleepy yet making it hard for me to sleep. On the second night, I felt no side effects at all.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member (tried the gummies for sleep and anxiety and is currently testing the gummies more long term to see how they affect her anxiety symptoms) “The gummies taste sweet initially. Each gummy is dusted with sugar crystals and tastes like jam plus that medicinal flavor cannabis ingredients tend to impart. I noticed that I felt drowsy within an hour or 2 of having the gummies. I also noticed that I slept through the night without waking up until the morning. “Over the course of 3 consecutive days I had 1 or 2 gummies at night and found I felt sleepier faster or sooner than I normally would. I didn’t change my nighttime habits other than taking the gummies. So I had the same amount of screen time as I normally would (laptop, TV, and phone). I found I also slept through the night without waking up until morning. So overall, the gummies were useful for me for sleep.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor (tried the gummies for sleep) “After a few days of taking the CBD gummies as recommended, I noticed feeling less stressed, especially during the workday. “I was pleasantly surprised by the flavor of these gummies. They have a slight hemp flavor, but it’s not too strong, so the berry flavor comes through nicely. There’s also a small coating of sugar on the outside of the gummy that adds a touch of extra sweetness. “As a new CBD user, I found that taking these gummies twice a day (as recommended on the packaging) worked well for me. Though I noticed very little (if any) effects the first couple of days. By the third day, I definitely noticed feeling less stressed throughout the day. “Additionally, as a vegetarian, I often have a hard time finding gummy products that do not contain gelatin. These gummies checked that box for me and still had a great texture. I also slept well at night (though that’s not usually an issue for me).” — Sydney Samuels, Healthline team member and tester (tried the gummies for stress and general use) “I took one gummy every day for 3 weeks, usually in the evening. After taking a gummy, I felt effects around 45 mins later. “The flavor was good and not too overpowering, and I didn’t notice any earthy taste like I’ve experienced in some other CBD gummies I have tried. The peach taste of the gummies was very natural and subtle. “For me, therapy and the correct medication plan from my doctor have made a huge change in my baseline anxiety. I often still find that toward the middle or end of the day, stressors from the day increase my symptoms of anxiety. The only herbal remedies that have worked for me to add on at the end of the day are CBD products. “I often feel physical strain on my body from my anxiety, and these gummies help take the edge off and put my mind and body in a calmer state, while still keeping me fully functional and alert, unlike other remedies and treatments I have tried.” — Heather Riesebeck, Healthline team member (tried the gummies for anxiety and sleep) “The Cornbread Berry Gummies were some of the best tasting CBD gummies I’ve had so far. The berry taste is deep and fruity and manages to mask the CBD and THC taste really well. It also has a really good texture that melts in your mouth. The sugar crystals aren’t too much, as they can be with other gummies. “I tried it for 2 days. The first night, I tried 1 gummy (25 mg CBD, 1 mg THC) and the second night I tried 2 gummies (50 mg CBD, 2 mg THC). I took the gummies at night since it did cause me to feel a low level of highness. “On the first day, I felt the effects within 2 hours. I felt a little high and sleepy, though my mind did race a bit, making me sleepy yet making it hard for me to sleep. On the second night, I felt no side effects at all.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member (tried the gummies for sleep and anxiety and is currently testing the gummies more long term to see how they affect her anxiety symptoms) “The gummies taste sweet initially. Each gummy is dusted with sugar crystals and tastes like jam plus that medicinal flavor cannabis ingredients tend to impart. I noticed that I felt drowsy within an hour or 2 of having the gummies. I also noticed that I slept through the night without waking up until the morning. “Over the course of 3 consecutive days I had 1 or 2 gummies at night and found I felt sleepier faster or sooner than I normally would. I didn’t change my nighttime habits other than taking the gummies. So I had the same amount of screen time as I normally would (laptop, TV, and phone). I found I also slept through the night without waking up until morning. So overall, the gummies were useful for me for sleep.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor (tried the gummies for sleep) “After a few days of taking the CBD gummies as recommended, I noticed feeling less stressed, especially during the workday. “I was pleasantly surprised by the flavor of these gummies. They have a slight hemp flavor, but it’s not too strong, so the berry flavor comes through nicely. There’s also a small coating of sugar on the outside of the gummy that adds a touch of extra sweetness. “As a new CBD user, I found that taking these gummies twice a day (as recommended on the packaging) worked well for me. Though I noticed very little (if any) effects the first couple of days. By the third day, I definitely noticed feeling less stressed throughout the day. “Additionally, as a vegetarian, I often have a hard time finding gummy products that do not contain gelatin. These gummies checked that box for me and still had a great texture. I also slept well at night (though that’s not usually an issue for me).” — Sydney Samuels, Healthline team member and tester (tried the gummies for stress and general use) Use code “HEALTHLINE” for 20% off. *Price may vary. “The Bliss gummy tastes tropical, without any hemp-y taste. It’s coated in sugar. The texture is just right — it’s not too sticky or chewy. “I cut this gummy in half the first few times that I took it (note: I am an advanced CBD user), and then gradually moved up to taking a full gummy. I took this gummy to help with falling asleep. I noticed feeling relaxed and sleepy about an hour after taking the gummy and have used it for sleep frequently. “It’s a potent gummy, so I’d recommend it for those with CBD experience.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “The Bliss gummy tastes tropical, without any hemp-y taste. It’s coated in sugar. The texture is just right — it’s not too sticky or chewy. “I cut this gummy in half the first few times that I took it (note: I am an advanced CBD user), and then gradually moved up to taking a full gummy. I took this gummy to help with falling asleep. I noticed feeling relaxed and sleepy about an hour after taking the gummy and have used it for sleep frequently. “It’s a potent gummy, so I’d recommend it for those with CBD experience.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor Use code "HEALTHLINE" for 20% off. *Price may vary. “I tested the product for 3 consecutive days of varied dosing, primarily taking it in the evening. The 3 days that I ate CBDfx gummies, I slept solidly through each night until about 7 a.m. when my alarm went off. Up to that point I was waking up in the middle of the night. “On the first day, I had a total of 2 gummies spaced 5 hours apart, at night. On the second day of testing, I had 1 gummy in the evening. And on the third day, I had a total of 4 gummies. The third day is when I felt some physical sensation that I might attribute to the gummies, like tingling in my scalp or head, and it’s this fairly mild reaction that makes me think this is an accessible option for someone new to CBD. “The Mixed Berry flavor reminded me of artificial sweetener or something medicinal; the taste was gone almost as soon as I’d swallowed the gummy. I think this is a good product for someone who may be totally new to CBD. It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep, for the better. “It smells like a fruity-flavored vitamin or candy. “I think this is a good product for someone that’s totally new to CBD. I felt little-to-no immediate physical effects. I never felt drowsy with these gummies, which was nice. And I never had more than 1 gummy at a time in a 5-hour window. “It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep for the better, but even if this doesn’t happen for someone else, they likely won’t feel off or strange while having them. “The gummy itself is really soft. I let 1 gummy sit on my tongue for a second to “melt” a bit. It doesn’t taste like candy. It’s more like having a gummy vitamin.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor “I tested the product for 3 consecutive days of varied dosing, primarily taking it in the evening. The 3 days that I ate CBDfx gummies, I slept solidly through each night until about 7 a.m. when my alarm went off. Up to that point I was waking up in the middle of the night. “On the first day, I had a total of 2 gummies spaced 5 hours apart, at night. On the second day of testing, I had 1 gummy in the evening. And on the third day, I had a total of 4 gummies. The third day is when I felt some physical sensation that I might attribute to the gummies, like tingling in my scalp or head, and it’s this fairly mild reaction that makes me think this is an accessible option for someone new to CBD. “The Mixed Berry flavor reminded me of artificial sweetener or something medicinal; the taste was gone almost as soon as I’d swallowed the gummy. I think this is a good product for someone who may be totally new to CBD. It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep, for the better. “It smells like a fruity-flavored vitamin or candy. “I think this is a good product for someone that’s totally new to CBD. I felt little-to-no immediate physical effects. I never felt drowsy with these gummies, which was nice. And I never had more than 1 gummy at a time in a 5-hour window. “It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep for the better, but even if this doesn’t happen for someone else, they likely won’t feel off or strange while having them. “The gummy itself is really soft. I let 1 gummy sit on my tongue for a second to “melt” a bit. It doesn’t taste like candy. It’s more like having a gummy vitamin.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor Use code “healthcbd” for 20% off. *Price may vary. “These gummies stand out from others that I’ve tried, as they have a chewy texture that didn’t get stuck in my teeth. I noticed a pleasantly sweet flavor overall, though I experienced a slightly bitter aftertaste. It has an earthy-yet-sweet strawberry scent.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor “They weren’t terrible tasting but did have an aftertaste of CBD oil, which isn’t my favorite. The product has a very light scent that isn’t overpowering. It actually smells very good — very much of strawberry lemonade. “For short-term testing, I tried it for 2 nights. I took 1 gummy (25 mg CBD) on the first night and 2 gummies (50 mg CBD) on the second night. I took them both at night because they did cause some brain fogginess. “It did create a sense of fuzziness and head heaviness, which got me into bed earlier. “I don’t believe this product is strong enough to help with anxiety in the short term, as when I was anxious on the second day and took it, it didn’t seem to have any effect. That said, taking it longer term might have different effects.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member (who is doing further testing to report on how they help or hinder anxiety symptoms in the long term) “These gummies stand out from others that I’ve tried, as they have a chewy texture that didn’t get stuck in my teeth. I noticed a pleasantly sweet flavor overall, though I experienced a slightly bitter aftertaste. It has an earthy-yet-sweet strawberry scent.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor “They weren’t terrible tasting but did have an aftertaste of CBD oil, which isn’t my favorite. The product has a very light scent that isn’t overpowering. It actually smells very good — very much of strawberry lemonade. “For short-term testing, I tried it for 2 nights. I took 1 gummy (25 mg CBD) on the first night and 2 gummies (50 mg CBD) on the second night. I took them both at night because they did cause some brain fogginess. “It did create a sense of fuzziness and head heaviness, which got me into bed earlier. “I don’t believe this product is strong enough to help with anxiety in the short term, as when I was anxious on the second day and took it, it didn’t seem to have any effect. That said, taking it longer term might have different effects.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member (who is doing further testing to report on how they help or hinder anxiety symptoms in the long term)  Use code “healthline20” for 20% off. *Price may vary. “I took it to relax. I didn’t notice too much of a difference, but I did think it helped me chill out. I didn’t feel ‘high,’ just mellow. “The texture is a little tougher than what you’d expect from a gummy bear, but it isn’t hard to chew. It tasted sweet like candy but [so much so] that you’d want to eat an entire bag of them. Overall I liked the taste, but you can still tell it’s a CBD gummy. “The packaging that the gummies were sent in was bright and included clever, funny elements that made opening it feel special. “Although these gummies are a higher dose than the 10-mg CBD I would usually take, I didn’t feel like they knocked me out — I felt mellow.” — Samantha Kostaras, former Healthline editor “I tried these gummies for 3 nights. On the first night, I took 1 gummy (25 mg CBD) close to bedtime and noticed no side effects. On the second and third nights, I took 2 gummies (50 mg CBD) as per the serving size. On the second night, I took the gummy close to bedtime and noticed no effects. On the third night, I took the gummies earlier and felt a light (3/10) high, along with a brain fuzziness. “The packaging itself on the bottles is really fun and unique compared with other gummies I’ve tried. “I felt mild to no effects on the first 2 days, but noticed effects on day 3 about 1.5 to 2 hours after taking it. “These gummies smell just like snow cone syrup, so they have a sort of nostalgic scent.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member “I took it to relax. I didn’t notice too much of a difference, but I did think it helped me chill out. I didn’t feel ‘high,’ just mellow. “The texture is a little tougher than what you’d expect from a gummy bear, but it isn’t hard to chew. It tasted sweet like candy but [so much so] that you’d want to eat an entire bag of them. Overall I liked the taste, but you can still tell it’s a CBD gummy. “The packaging that the gummies were sent in was bright and included clever, funny elements that made opening it feel special. “Although these gummies are a higher dose than the 10-mg CBD I would usually take, I didn’t feel like they knocked me out — I felt mellow.” — Samantha Kostaras, former Healthline editor “I tried these gummies for 3 nights. On the first night, I took 1 gummy (25 mg CBD) close to bedtime and noticed no side effects. On the second and third nights, I took 2 gummies (50 mg CBD) as per the serving size. On the second night, I took the gummy close to bedtime and noticed no effects. On the third night, I took the gummies earlier and felt a light (3/10) high, along with a brain fuzziness. “The packaging itself on the bottles is really fun and unique compared with other gummies I’ve tried. “I felt mild to no effects on the first 2 days, but noticed effects on day 3 about 1.5 to 2 hours after taking it. “These gummies smell just like snow cone syrup, so they have a sort of nostalgic scent.” — Jamie Elmer, Healthline team member  Use code "HEALTHLINE30" for 30% off. *Price may vary. “I tested these gummies in the Seriously Sour flavor. Each bottle contains Blue Raz, Pink Lemonade, and Watermelon gummies. They are lightly coated in added sugar. “About an hour after taking one 25-mg gummy, I noticed that my body felt more physically relaxed and ‘slowed down’ in a way that allowed me to still focus on my work but with a lot less mental distraction. I’m a fan of all three flavors within the bottle.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “I tested Soul CBD in the Raspberry flavor. Each 10-mg gummy is coated in a bit of sugar and shaped like the company’s teardrop logo (a nice touch). Having tried over a dozen brands of CBD gummies, I would rate these among my favorites because they were easy to take and effective. “I typically took a gummy in the late afternoon if I was feeling a bit stressed or amped up from my morning coffee and wanted to relax so I could focus on work projects. I felt my energy even out really nicely, which enabled me to be productive for the next few hours.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director “I tested these gummies in the Seriously Sour flavor. Each bottle contains Blue Raz, Pink Lemonade, and Watermelon gummies. They are lightly coated in added sugar. “About an hour after taking one 25-mg gummy, I noticed that my body felt more physically relaxed and ‘slowed down’ in a way that allowed me to still focus on my work but with a lot less mental distraction. I’m a fan of all three flavors within the bottle.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “I tested Soul CBD in the Raspberry flavor. Each 10-mg gummy is coated in a bit of sugar and shaped like the company’s teardrop logo (a nice touch). Having tried over a dozen brands of CBD gummies, I would rate these among my favorites because they were easy to take and effective. “I typically took a gummy in the late afternoon if I was feeling a bit stressed or amped up from my morning coffee and wanted to relax so I could focus on work projects. I felt my energy even out really nicely, which enabled me to be productive for the next few hours.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director Use code "HEALTH30" for 30% off “I tested these gummies in both the Watermelon and Sour Apple flavors. Both stood out to me as super juicy and flavorful. I preferred the Watermelon; the Sour Apple flavor had a bit of a medicinal aftertaste. Neither caused dry mouth. “I took 2 gummies when I had trouble falling asleep and noticed that they helped lull me into a more relaxed state. My racing and intrusive thoughts started to slow down, and I was able to fall asleep. I recommend taking a gummy or 2 when your usual tricks to fall asleep aren’t working!” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “I tested these gummies in both the Watermelon and Sour Apple flavors. Both stood out to me as super juicy and flavorful. I preferred the Watermelon; the Sour Apple flavor had a bit of a medicinal aftertaste. Neither caused dry mouth. “I took 2 gummies when I had trouble falling asleep and noticed that they helped lull me into a more relaxed state. My racing and intrusive thoughts started to slow down, and I was able to fall asleep. I recommend taking a gummy or 2 when your usual tricks to fall asleep aren’t working!” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor  We selected these CBD gummies based on criteria we think are good indicators of safety, quality, and transparency. We’ve also personally tested all the gummies to provide feedback on our experience with how they helped us sleep, relax, and be productive by calming racing thoughts. As a part of our vetting process, we also consider: Read more about how we vet products and brands. Our Medical Standards and Insights team has carefully researched and vetted over 11,000 products and services. We fact-check health claims, evaluate ingredients, and look into each brand’s reputation before sharing products and services on Healthline. To choose the products on this page, we considered all the CBD gummies that passed our vetting process. Then, we personally tested some of them to narrow down our list even further. Read more about how we test CBD products. Use the following criteria when buying CBD gummies: The first thing to consider when purchasing CBD gummies is the type of CBD used.  CBD isolate is pure CBD, with no other cannabinoids. While isolates are good for consumers who want to avoid THC, this extraction method strips away the flavonoids and terpenes found in cannabis. This means the end result won’t provide the full range of health benefits. Products made with broad-spectrum CBD contain most cannabinoids, plus other cannabis compounds, but they generally don’t contain THC.  Products made with full-spectrum CBD can contain all the plant’s cannabinoids, including THC. Full-spectrum products provide the most therapeutic benefits as a result of the entourage effect, which means that cannabinoids have a greater effect combined than consumed alone. The best bet is to go for a full- or broad-spectrum product made with organic hemp grown in the United States. Hemp grown in the United States is subject to agricultural regulations, and it can’t contain more than 0.3% THC. Any product that doesn’t specifically say what type of CBD was used — for instance, listing only “cannabis extract” as an ingredient — is probably one to avoid. Doses vary widely across CBD products, and potency may depend on the CBD source. For example, a 5-mg full-spectrum CBD gummy may feel a lot more potent than a 5-mg CBD isolate gummy. If you’re unsure what dose to look for, the best bet is to start with the lowest one available — generally 2.5 mg to 5 mg — and increase from there. There’s a lot more to CBD gummies than just CBD. Other ingredients can vary widely. Pay attention to additives like artificial ingredients and preservatives. You may also want to avoid high fructose corn syrup, and if you’re vegan or have allergies, look for products that match those needs. Consider CBD gummies made with organic, non-GMO ingredients, real sugar, and natural flavorings. Although you can purchase CBD products that contain vitamins or adaptogenic herbs, it may be best to avoid these, as experts aren’t sure how CBD interacts with vitamins, minerals, or supplements. Currently, the FDA doesn’t guarantee the safety, effectiveness, or quality of over-the-counter CBD products.  However, to protect public health, the FDA can take action against CBD companies that make unfounded health claims. It’s important to do your research and find a quality product. Take a look at the COA and make sure the product has been tested for contaminants like heavy metals, pesticides, and molds. You can also use the COA to verify that the product actually contains the amount of CBD and THC that the label says it does. Beware of any company that promises extreme results, and remember that results may differ. A product that works well for a friend or family member may not have the same effects for you. If a product doesn’t work for you, consider trying another with different ingredients or a different amount of CBD. Most gummies come in packs of 20 to 60, and they’re dosed at 5 mg or more of CBD per gummy. If you’ve never tried CBD, start with a 5-mg gummy. Some gummies can be cut in half, so you can start with 2.5 mg.  Wait up to 2 hours to experience the full effects, and if you feel like you need more, experiment until you find your “just right” dose. You can consume gummies daily, but keep in mind that the effects of a gummy tend to last 4 to 6 hours. Store in a cool, dark place away from sunlight. Some prefer ingesting CBD by eating edibles like gummies. CBD gummies are offered in a variety of potencies. But generally, it’ll be about 30 to 60 minutes before the results begin, although it can take longer.  When you eat a CBD gummy, your body will first absorb it in the digestive system. Next, the active ingredients can move into your bloodstream, making their way to your liver.  From here, your liver metabolizes the ingredients before entering the bloodstream again and then finally making it to your brain.  This is when people generally notice the results, although everyone’s experience with onset time may be different. Of course, if you eat a CBD gummy on an empty stomach, you might notice results faster than if you take it with a full stomach.  CBD is non-intoxicating, meaning it will not get you “high.” Experts generally recognize it as safe, and there are few side effects, though they do occasionally occur. Research from 2017 suggests that CBD may interact with liver enzymes and interfere with metabolizing other medications or breaking down toxins. Always consult a clinician before using CBD products, especially if you take any medications or supplements. Additionally, keep in mind that some research suggests that consuming CBD with high fat meals could increase your risk of side effects. This is because high fat meals can increase CBD blood concentrations, which can increase the risk of side effects. If you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, avoid CBD. The most powerful CBD gummies we recommend are the Aspen Green Bliss Organic CBD Gummies (which contain 100mg of CBD and 5 mg of THC), and Cornbread Hemp Gummies (which contain 100mg of CBD and 4 mg of THC). If you prefer broad spectrum, then we recommend CBDfx Mixed Berry Gummies which also have 100 mg of CBD but no added THC. The most powerful CBD gummies we recommend are the Aspen Green Bliss Organic CBD Gummies (which contain 100mg of CBD and 5 mg of THC), and Cornbread Hemp Gummies (which contain 100mg of CBD and 4 mg of THC). If you prefer broad spectrum, then we recommend CBDfx Mixed Berry Gummies which also have 100 mg of CBD but no added THC. After consuming a CBD gummy, it can be as soon as 30 to 60 minutes or up to a couple of hours before the effects kick in. After consuming a CBD gummy, it can be as soon as 30 to 60 minutes or up to a couple of hours before the effects kick in. It may take longer to notice the effects of CBD gummies compared with CBD oil, as gummies have to travel through your digestive system before the effects can take place. If you’re looking for faster absorption, go for CBD oil. It may take longer to notice the effects of CBD gummies compared with CBD oil, as gummies have to travel through your digestive system before the effects can take place. If you’re looking for faster absorption, go for CBD oil. This will depend on the product you choose. Some CBD gummies come in higher doses and are meant to be taken only once per day, while others are less potent, meaning you can slowly take more as you get used to CBD and find the result you’re looking to achieve. This will depend on the product you choose. Some CBD gummies come in higher doses and are meant to be taken only once per day, while others are less potent, meaning you can slowly take more as you get used to CBD and find the result you’re looking to achieve. Some CBD gummies are free of THC, but there’s always a chance that trace amounts could be included, which can result in a positive drug test. Full-spectrum CBD does include all the plant’s cannabinoids, meaning it contains THC. To be sure there is no THC in your CBD gummies, select an isolate — also known as pure CBD. Some CBD gummies are free of THC, but there’s always a chance that trace amounts could be included, which can result in a positive drug test. Full-spectrum CBD does include all the plant’s cannabinoids, meaning it contains THC. To be sure there is no THC in your CBD gummies, select an isolate — also known as pure CBD. CBD may have health benefits, and gummies are a great place for CBD-curious folks to start. Stick with full- or broad-spectrum products made with organic hemp grown in the United States, and be sure that whatever you buy is third-party tested. Start slowly, enjoying enough of a gummy to ingest 2.5 mg to 5 mg of CBD. Evaluate any effects as you slowly work your way toward finding the right amount for you: your Goldilocks dose. Wait up to a full 2 hours before taking any additional CBD. Consult a clinician before taking CBD, especially if you’re currently on any other medication. Healthline has sole editorial control over this article. Potential uses for the products listed here are not health claims made by the manufacturers. The information in this article is intended to be general in nature. It’s not intended to be a substitute for medical advice from a healthcare professional. Healthline encourages you to make any treatment decisions with your healthcare professional. Is CBD legal? The 2018 Farm Bill removed hemp from the legal definition of marijuana in the Controlled Substances Act. This made some hemp-derived CBD products with less than 0.3% THC legal at the federal level. However, CBD products containing more than 0.3% THC still fall under the legal definition of marijuana, making them illegal at the federal level. Some states have legalized CBD, so be sure to check state laws, especially when traveling. Also, keep in mind that the FDA has not approved nonprescription CBD products, and some products may be inaccurately labeled. “””””””””””” Share this article OUR BRANDS