
    What's the best internet service provider for you? CNET has you covered. We review the top ISPs based on the best deals, fastest speeds and more.         
   
      Article updated on July 18, 2024 at 7:32 AM PDT
       Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links. Finding the best internet plan for your house is no easy feat, thanks to often confusing pricing, speed tiers and overall low customer satisfaction scores for the internet industry as a whole. The best internet plan for you is dependent on a lot of variables, but fiber-optic internet is the fastest and most cost-efficient internet you can buy. If you can get your hands on Verizon Fios or AT&T Fiber, we recommend placing these at the top of your list. If you live in the Northeast, it's tough to find a better internet service provider than Verizon Fios, while most other folks nationwide will find that AT&T Fiber rises to the top. As we often say in our ISP reviews, fiber internet service almost always trumps other internet connection types, so don't hesitate to sign up if you can. 
      Our methodology
     CNET considers speeds, pricing, customer service and overall value to recommend the best internet service providers across several categories. Our evaluation includes referencing a proprietary database built over years of reviewing internet services. We validate that against provider information by spot-checking local addresses for service availability. We also closely read providers' terms and conditions and, when needed, call ISPs to verify the details. Despite our efforts to find the most recent and accurate information, our process has some limitations you should know about. Pricing and speed data are variable: Certain addresses may qualify for different service tiers, and monthly costs may vary, even within a city. The best way to identify your particular options is to plug your address into a provider's website.  Also, the prices, speed and other information listed above and in the provider cards below may differ from what we found in our research. The cards display the full range of a provider's pricing and speed across the US, according to our database of plan information provided directly by ISPs. At the same time, the plan charts display the offerings most common to most areas. The prices referenced within this article's text come from our research and include applicable discounts for setting up automatic payments each month -- a standard industry offering. Discounts and promotions might also be available for signing a term contract or bundling multiple services.  To learn more about how we review internet providers, visit our full methodology page. Locating local internet providers Our take - One of the metrics we like to compare value between ISPs is the average cost per megabit per second of download speed. A lower cost per Mbps is a good, rough indicator of value. With AT&T's fiber internet plans, the average cost per Mbps is just 10 cents, including your equipment rental.  
            For comparison, you can expect Verizon's average fiber internet plan to cost you 11 cents per Mbps. Meanwhile, most cable internet plans from names like Xfinity and Spectrum will typically cost you at least 17 cents per Mbps, if not more. Another point worth mentioning: AT&T offers multi-gig plans with concurrent upload and download speeds of 2 and 5 gigabits per second.
           
            That's to say that AT&T's fiber plans are a terrific value, especially since none of them come with contracts or data caps. On top of that, AT&T Fiber is one of the highest-ranked internet service providers for customer satisfaction by the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power. The telecom giant's DSL and fixed wireless plans are much less impressive, but if AT&T Fiber is available at your address, consider yourself lucky because there isn't much reason to consider anything else.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - With most fiber providers, you'll find a better bang for your buck, but a cable connection is the next best thing if fiber isn't an option. Among all the providers offering cable internet service in the country, Spectrum is the one I'd be happiest to see available at my address. 
            Spectrum isn't the biggest name in cable internet -- that'd be Comcast's Xfinity -- but it still offers service to more than 30 million customers, according to the latest findings from Spectrum's first quarter 2024 report. Unlike Comcast (or Cox, its other main cable rival), Spectrum doesn't enforce a data cap and won't tie you down to a long-term contract.
           
            On top of all that, Spectrum's prices and terms are straightforward, easy to understand and easy to live with. It isn't quite the best value in the cable category (keep reading) and Spectrum prices usually increase by $30 monthly after one or two years depending on your plan, but Spectrum is still your top option for cable internet at home when you drill down into the details.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - Pickings can be frustratingly slim when shopping for an internet plan in a rural area because most of the best internet infrastructure in the country is centralized in population-dense cities and the suburban neighborhoods surrounding them. If you live outside a region like that, your home probably isn't wired for fiber or cable. Instead, you'll have to make do with slower, less reliable and more expensive technologies, and you'll likely have fewer options to choose from too. 
            You'll need to take the good with the bad with just about any rural ISP, but there's more good than bad with Rise Broadband, our top rural ISP pick for getting online when faster cable and fiber plans aren't an option. A fixed wireless provider covering much of the country's middle, Rise Broadband will beam an internet signal directly to an antenna mounted outside your home, providing download speeds of up to 100Mbps for $75 monthly. That matches the top end of what you'll get with a satellite internet plan from Hughesnet and is faster than many DSL plans, which often struggle to surpass double-digit download speeds. 
           
            Rise also recently introduced fiber internet packages: 100Mbps, 250Mbps and 1,000Mbps, but these plans are even more scarce nationwide than Rise's fixed wireless plans.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - Verizon lands near the top of the American Customer Satisfaction Index's rankings of internet providers year after year, and it's been one of the strongest finishers with J.D. Power for multiple years running, too. 
            What do people like about Verizon? For starters, while the company's DSL service isn't special, most customers across the company's eight-state coverage map in the northeast have access to Verizon Fios fiber service capable of gigabit speeds and uploads as fast as the downloads. Verizon plans don't come with contracts or data caps and your price won't automatically go up after a year the way it will with most other providers.
           
            What's more, Verizon 5G Home Internet is now available in approximately 2700 cities across the country. Given the nationwide need for better internet options, this is a promising development for consumers.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - WideOpenWest -- or WOW -- is a relatively small provider that offers services in nine states. It earns the exclamation point it likes to stick at the end of its branding by offering cable internet plans at some of the best prices you'll find anywhere in the US. That includes an entry-level 300Mbps plan that starts at $30 per month and a high-speed gigabit plan at $60 monthly. That's a stellar cost per Mbps of just 6 cents, which is unheard of in the cable category. For an extra $5 a month, WOW offers price-lock to your chosen plan to protect against sudden price increases. 
            In addition, WOW doesn't enforce annual contracts with any of its plans, and it offers a 30-day money-back guarantee when you sign up, letting you cancel without penalty if it isn't the right fit. All in, it's about as strong as ISP sales pitches get, I just wish the footprint was a bit bigger and there weren't data limits in some markets.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - CenturyLink offers DSL internet plans across 16 states, but roughly half of the coverage map also has access to its sibling company's fiber plans, branded as Quantum Fiber. The plans themselves are a great deal -- $50 a month for matching upload and download speeds of 500Mbps (10 cents per Mbps), or $75 a month for a gigabit plan with matching speeds of 940Mbps (just under 8 cents per Mbps, which is an even better value than you'll get with AT&T for its fiber gigabit plan). There are no data caps or contracts with those plans, and those prices don't arbitrarily go up after a year. 
            Meanwhile, CenturyLink's DSL speeds are much slower and can vary greatly from address to address, but with a flat rate of $50 per month, the pricing is pretty fair by DSL standards. If nothing faster is available at your address, a plan like that might be worth considering. If Quantum Fiber offers service in your area, signing up is a lot closer to a no-brainer.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - Comcast is the biggest name in cable, and the company offers its Xfinity internet service to over 100 million people in the US -- more than a third of the country. Subscribers will find a great variety of plans and packages to choose from, including download speeds of up to 2,000Mbps that are available across the majority of the sprawling coverage map (or, if you're lucky, plans with multi-gig speeds of up to 10Gbps that are available at a small percentage of addresses). In addition, Xfinity consistently earns above-average customer satisfaction scores, too. 
            Being the biggest doesn't mean it's the best. While Xfinity plans come at a slightly better value than its cable internet competitors like Spectrum and Optimum, neither enforce a data cap. Comcast does, in some markets, by capping your monthly data usage at 1.2TB, with penalties levied if you exceed it in a given month. If you can live with that, there's a lot to like about Xfinity's home internet service, but it's more of an honorable mention than an outright best pick. Additionally, Xfinity's promotional prices increase after one to two years, making some of these plans up to 23 cents per Mbps. 
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - It's been over a decade since Google first announced that it would bring fiber internet service to select regions across the country -- and it's been an interesting ride ever since. After initially rolling out across 11 metro areas, Google struggled to build the service beyond that. It paused its efforts in 2016, leaving disappointment across dozens of cities where the company had teased prospects for future fiber expansions. 
            Google hasn't given up: The company is working on expanding fiber access in select cities and recently rolled out plans that support speeds of up to 5 gigabits per second for $125 per month. That super-speedy plan is currently only offered in certain cities. 
           
            Google Fiber is available in select cities in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah and Washington. If you live in any of those states, and Google Fiber is available at your address, give it a look because that's one of the best deals you'll find for such a blazing-fast connection.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - Satellite internet is typically slow, laggy and temperamental in inclement weather, so I'd explore other options if you've got them. That's the issue; too many of us don't have other options, and satellite internet from established names like Viasat and Hughesnet are available just about everywhere. 
            If it comes down to those two, I'd start with Viasat. Why? Neither offers strong value for what you're getting, but Hughesnet caps the maximum download speeds at 100GB to 200GB of priority data. With Viasat's newest plan, satellite speeds of up to 150Mbps are available in some regions.
           
            All of that said, there are aspects of Viasat's service that would probably be more at home on the worst list than a best list like this. For starters, "unlimited data" isn't truly unlimited. If you exceed 850GB in 30 days, your speeds will be slowed. Yes, you won't incur any added fees, but your service will be affected. As I said, make sure to shop around for other, better options in your area. If there aren't any, Viasat is a workable choice for getting online in remote parts of the country.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Our take - Ziply Fiber is a relative newcomer to the fiber scene after acquiring fiber-optic infrastructure in the Pacific Northwest from Frontier. The service launched in 2020 amid the pandemic, offering relatively affordable fiber plans to customers across parts of Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington. 
            Plans are limited for now, with a notable lack of middle-ground options between the lowest and fastest speed tiers. In addition to offering multi-gig plans of 2, 5 and 10 gigabits per second, the provider recently added a 50-gig tier to its lineup for a hefty $900 monthly, making it the fastest provider in the country. 
           
            Ziply also includes whole-home Wi-Fi with up to three extenders in its which is a nice deal for anyone interested in trying out the benefits of a mesh network. However, customers also have an option to use their own router or lease one for $12 per month. We'll keep an eye on the company as it grows, but we like what we see.
            Source: CNET analysis of provider data. The broadband beat keeps our team busy, but we'll continue evaluating internet providers and updating this post as new options emerge. Please note that the plans below show each provider's cheapest available tier. The max speed is the top advertised speed for that given plan, but it might not be available in your area. Overall, the best selection for you -- and the most cost-effective plan -- might be a different tier that provides a faster speed at a higher price but a better value. To more fully understand this value-based approach, check out CNET's guide to examining the cost per Mbps.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Finding the right ISP for your household isn't easy. This is especially true if you live in a rural or underserved portion of the US. We recommend carefully considering your household's activities so you can better determine the download and upload speeds necessary to meet your needs. With that knowledge, you can better tackle plan pricing that will fit your budget and broadband demands. For more comprehensive tips on finding the top internet plan for your household, check out CNET's 10 tips to help you get the most out of your internet service.  For most of us, our internet use mainly focuses on our download speeds. It determines how easily we can stream the latest hit Netflix show or how fast we can load our favorite Amazon shopping page. The slower your download speeds, the longer it takes to do tasks on the internet. For example, Netflix suggests 15Mbps or higher to watch programming in ultra HD (to take full advantage of that 4K TV you bought).  As for uploads, most of us couldn't care less about our upload speeds before the pandemic. Once we started excessively video chatting with friends and family, taking Zoom calls with business colleagues and sending files and homework to our bosses and teachers, we discovered its importance too. Considering what types of activities dominate your household will affect what level of download speed you'll need. Do you work remotely from home? Are you living in a household full of kids with their own devices? Have you recently downsized and are an empty nester? At first glance, you might think it would be easy to spot good plan pricing. The cheaper the monthly fee, the better the price, right? Maybe. Because internet providers are not the most transparent (a Consumer Reports broadband study from late 2022 noted that customers found internet bills to be "extremely confusing"), one low monthly rate might not equal the next.  Keep on the watch for promo rates that expire quickly. That means the enticing starting price won't last, and you may pay more in the long term. Also, look for hidden fees that may add to your monthly expenses. For example, some providers don't include equipment rentals in their monthly rates. That could add another $5 to $15 to your monthly bill.  Lastly, one good way to determine value is by examining the cost per megabit per second. You might find a 75Mbps plan for $20 monthly from one provider and a 250Mbps plan for $30 monthly from another. Before you sign up for that $20 plan, consider that the cost per Mbps is just under 27 cents. The 250Mbps plan, on the other hand, chimes in at 12 cents per Mbps, so it's a better value -- more than 50% cheaper per Mbps -- and you get more than three times the download speed. Just as you might search the internet for recommendations on a good local restaurant, it can be helpful to research customers' experiences with an ISP before you sign up. CNET has found it helpful to lean on the annual ISP surveys from the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, but many resources are out there. Learning about constant network interruptions, a negligent help desk or frequent billing mistakes can be valuable info for choosing (or avoiding) certain providers. There are six major types of internet available: fiber, cable, 5G, fixed wireless, DSL and satellite. Each of these internet technologies provides different quirks and benefits. Our CNET crew shares their experiences with each internet connection type to better illustrate some of the differences. For a thorough breakdown of each, check out CNET's guide on internet connection types.  Fiber internet is the gold standard if you can get it. It's often called "future-proof," meaning that it offers some of the fastest plans available and features symmetrical download and upload speeds. It's more reliable than cable and is less prone to outages or network congestion. AT&T, Google and Verizon are among the major players that offer fiber-optic internet. Cable internet supplies your internet connection through the same cables (often a hybrid fiber and copper line) that providers use for TV services. It's more reliable than satellite internet and offers faster download speeds. Often, cable internet is bundled with TV to get consumers to buy higher-priced packages to get a deal on internet service. Companies like Cox, Spectrum and Xfinity offer cable internet. 5G home internet and fixed wireless go hand-in-hand: 5G home internet services are fixed wireless internet services. Not all fixed wireless services are 5G home internet offerings. Fixed wireless service means the connection between your provider and home is not wired. That fixed wireless connection can come via cellular networks or satellite. Fixed wireless networks tend to be slower and more laggy than wired connections. The promise of 5G home internetfrom companies like Starry, T-Mobile and Verizon is speeds that match up favorably to cable connections. DSL, or digital subscriber line, uses telephone lines to provide internet connectivity to users. Companies like AT&T, CenturyLink and Frontier offer DSL internet. The good news is those copper lines are prevalent across the country. The not-so-good news is that download speeds fall short of what cable internet can offer. In some cases, your speeds might even be slower than satellite internet. Satellite internet is the one broadband connection type currently available to people in the rural areas of all 50 states. As a solid alternative for those without access to DSL, cable or fiber internet, satellite internet links a modem in your home to a satellite in space, sending the internet back to Earth. Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it's impractical to personally test every internet service provider in a given city. What's our approach? For starters, we tap into a proprietary pricing, availability and speed database that draws from our own historical ISP data, partner data and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.  It doesn't end there: We go to the FCC's website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of publication.  Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:  While the answers to those questions are often layered and complex, the providers that come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend. When selecting the cheapest internet service, we look for the plans with the lowest monthly fee, although we also factor in things like price increases, equipment fees and contracts. Choosing the fastest internet service is relatively straightforward. We look at advertised upload and download speeds and consider real-world speed data from sources like Ookla and FCC reports. To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page. Finding the right ISP is easier said than done, especially if you live in a rural part of the country with limited options for getting online. While fiber internet is almost always the best internet connection type, we recognize that many Americans don't currently have access to fiber internet. Some providers we listed might not be the perfect fit for your situation. Often, the best provider is simply the one available at your address. We recommend carefully considering your household's activities so you can better determine your broadband demands.  
      What's the cheapest way to get internet?
     That depends.  One of the cheapest ways to get internet service is through permanent government programs available for low-income families, as well as for seniors and students.  Lastly, you can try negotiating with your current internet provider to secure a lower rate on your broadband service. Or you can keep your eyes open for internet providers that offer cheap internet, broadband deals or other internet promotions each month.  
      What's the fastest internet provider?
     The good news is it's now common to find gigabit plans offered by almost all major ISPs. As we often say, the fastest internet service for you will depend on your location and specific address. Xfinity and Optimum often extend the fastest plans available for residential homes, with a 10,000Mbps and an 8,000Mbps plan, respectively. Those aren't as widely available and may require a site survey to ensure serviceability. In 2022, a Chattanooga, Tennessee, provider announced it was offering a 25Gbps plan. Although that's impressive, Ziply Fiber recently released a 50-gigabit plan. That's ridiculously fast, and though you probably don't need that much speed in your household, it's pretty cool nonetheless. 
      What is the most powerful internet company?
     If fast is what you’re looking for, Ziply Fiber has two of the fastest internet plans of any major ISP, with advertised symmetrical upload and download speeds of up to 10,000Mbps and 50,000Mbps. If you're more interested in customer care and value, Verizon offers the best sign-up bonuses among high-speed internet providers.  
      What provider has the best Wi-Fi coverage?
     Since internet providers tend to operate in specific areas, the provider with the best Wi-Fi coverage will depend on where you live. Currently, T-Mobile Home Internet is available in 49 states and has 98% nationwide coverage.  
      What internet speed do I need?
     In March, the FCC raised the minimum standard of "broadband speeds" to 100Mbps download and 20Mbps upload. Most providers now offer a gigabit plan, but most households won't need that much speed. According to a recent report from OpenVault, the average American household uses approximately 520Mbps download speeds (although nearly 33% of households get less than 200 to 400Mbps). Does that mean you'll need that much? Not necessarily. The internet speed you need will depend on how many people use the internet in your home and for what activities you need. 
      Should I self-install my internet or have a professional do it?
     Most internet providers offer a self-installation option, where they'll mail you your home internet equipment after you sign up for service, and you'll set it up yourself on your own time. In most cases, the process is straightforward, with clear instructions on how to plug everything in correctly. In some cases, opting for self-installation can save you money, too. All of that makes self-installation a great option for homes that don't require much labor to get a network up and running -- for instance, if you're setting up a cable internet modem and your home already has the necessary coaxial wiring running through your walls. Check with your provider when you sign up to see if it's an option for you, how much work it would entail, and how much money you could save off of the cost of letting the pros handle it. 
      What is a Tier 1 ISP?
     Tier 1 internet providers have direct access to the network, letting them offer services directly to customers without relying on other providers. A few Tier 1 ISPs include AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink, which all have extensive networks and complete control of their network and routing. 
      How many ISPs are there in the US? 
     Approximately 2,000 ISPs operate in the US, including national, regional and local providers. While some offer nationwide coverage, others cater to specific areas or communities. 
      Which internet service providers offer bundles?
     If you’re considering home internet and TV service, bundling can save you time and money. Companies like AT&T, Cox Communications and Frontier offer internet and television packages, but you can read more at CNET's list of the best cheap internet and TV bundles. 