Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. None Delta Buzz-8 is an official seller of hemp-extracted high-quality Area52 products. CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES, December 11, 2022/ EINPresswire.com / -- Delta Buzz-8 offers an excellent opportunity for the social media affiliate to promote the Area52 products. Being the authorized seller of Area52 products, Delta Buzz-8 has the best price of products in the market. Promoting these products on social media could help many influencers earn a decent amount. Delta Buzz offers free items to the five lucky winners who will like and follow the Facebook page and Instagram account of Delta Buzz-8 and share it with at least three other friends. To claim the gift, the individuals must visit https://deltabuzz8.com and send their name, email, and screenshots to chat support so that the company can contact the winners. The free items are worth $150 products. Area 52 is a well-respected and authoritative brand in the hemp industry. Since the industry has been booming for the last few years, selling such products would not be almost effortless for the affiliates. Currently, Delta Buzz-8 is offering Delta-8 products, UFO products, HHC products, Gummies, and Tinctures. The products are made with all the natural ingredients with no added preservatives. The advanced formula is purely derived from hemp. The best thing about the Delta Buzz-8 products is that they can be sold to the general audience doing broad targeting. Sounds logical that the affiliates of the products never need to have in-depth marketing knowledge. Moreover, the product is relatively easy to understand and sell. The prices range from $65 to $885, which means that affiliates could earn a good commission on those. There are countless benefits of hemp extracts, but the primary focus of Delta Buzz-8 is the user experience. Delta Buzz-8 does that by focusing on the quality and packing of the product. Only the premium grade extracts are used in the Area52 products. This way, toxic elements like cadmium, lead, mercury, butane, and hexane are kept from being mixed in the product. Most importantly, the products are third-party tested, which makes those trustable. To become an affiliate, individuals and brands are welcome to visit: https://deltabuzz8.com About Company:  Delta Buzz-8 was founded as a testing ground for new cannabinoids & other phytochemicals. The company is now the official seller of Area 52 products. These products are extracted from high-grade hemp, which helps in the process of self-growth and development.  Cheska Zion  Delta Buzz-8  [email protected]  Visit us on social media: FacebookOther Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.