    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Reviewed By
									 Having a reliable internet connection has become one of the most essential features of modern households. However, residents in areas of low population density may still struggle to find a reliable rural internet provider. For those in metropolitan areas, choosing the best internet provider can be a matter of deciding which of the many companies and options to use. On the other hand, rural internet users can often only choose from a small handful of connection providers, sometimes with limited connection options. However, more and more rural internet providers are making themselves available. Compared to the past, rural internet customers are less likely to have only one or two choices. Now that there are multiple options, we’ve compiled this list of the best internet providers for rural areas to help you make an informed decision about which one is best for you. The Forbes Home team is committed to bringing you independent, unbiased ratings and information. We use data and expert advice to inform all of our content. Plus, our advisory board of licensed professionals fact-checks and reviews our content for accuracy and relevancy. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the internet providers’ methodology for the ratings below. T-Mobile Home Internet tops our list as the best internet provider for rural areas. The company combines competitive guaranteed pricing with simple plan options without added equipment charges or data caps. While T-Mobile doesn’t provide the fastest connections among companies in our review, its speed meets most families’ internet needs while also offering pricing discounts for bundled services. 	Best Overall Best Overall T-Mobile Home Internet    T-Mobile Home Internet is available wherever a 5G or 4GLTE cellular signal is available. While 5G coverage may not yet extend to some rural areas, many locations can receive a solid signal and benefit from the company’s many services provided within its connection plan. A single plan option is available through T-Mobile, offering connection speeds between 33 and 245 Mbps. That speed may not be enough for heavy multi-player online gaming. However, it’s fast enough for most families to enjoy casual internet use, online meetings, some gaming and moderate streaming. T-Mobile’s guaranteed monthly price for its connection service won’t ever increase and equals $55  monthly or $50  when choosing autopay. No data caps or contracts apply, and the service is available in many locations in all 50 states. However, connection speeds aren’t guaranteed and can vary widely by location, signal quality and cellular traffic. Learn More:  T-Mobile Internet review T-Mobile offers a single fixed 5G wireless internet connection plan for rural customers. The plan consists of a 5G cellular connection wherever a signal is available for $55 per month  or $50  for customers who choose automatic payments. Discounts for existing T-Mobile cellular phone customers can lower the price to $30  monthly. Connection speeds vary depending on signal strength and cellular traffic but generally hover between 70 and 245 Mbps. 	Best availability Best availability HughesNet    HughesNet is one of the leading providers of satellite internet and is available just about anywhere a satellite signal can reach. While the technology’s speed is somewhat limited, it’s improving. It can now reach speeds of around 50 Mbps, or enough for most families to enjoy casual internet use, some gaming, online meetings and some streaming. HughesNet offers four plan options for rural customers that differ by data caps instead of connection speed. All connections through the company operate at between 15 and 50 Mbps. Data plans cap usage at 15, 30, 45 and 75 gigabytes per month. Installation costs $99. However, the fee is waived if customers purchase a satellite internet modem from HughesNet for $450. Optionally, customers can pay for installation and rent the modem for $15  monthly. Learn More:  HughesNet review HughesNet offers four internet connection plans with varying data caps. Connection speeds for each plan are generally around 25 Mbps for downloading and 3 Mbps for uploading. 	Best plan options Best plan options AT&T Internet    Rural customers in areas that AT&T Internet can reach often have the opportunity to choose from multiple plan offerings from the company. AT&T offers up to ten plan choices ranging from moderate to super-fast connection speeds. Customers in areas not yet set up for fiber optic connections may still have up to five options, including the company’s DSL choices. However, if no internet infrastructure exists in an area, customers may still have an AT&T connection option through its fixed wireless service. The fixed wireless service starts at $69.99  monthly and includes 10 Mbps download and 1 Mbps upload speeds. Customers can bundle any AT&T internet plan with other company services, such as mobile phone or DIRECTV. AT&T internet data is capped at just over 1,000 GB monthly, but an unlimited data option is available for an additional $30 per month. Learn More:  AT&T Internet review Customers may be able to choose from up to ten AT&T internet connection plans, depending on location. Rural customers are more likely to have one to five plan options excluding fiber optic connectivity. 	Best rural high-speeds Best rural high-speeds Kinetic    Available in 18 states, Kinetic Internet is bringing fiber optic technology to some rural areas. Kinetic’s system consists of DSL, fiber and connections that combine the two. That means high internet speeds are becoming available in areas once limited to slow, limited or expensive connections. For those in Kinetic’s growing service area, there are three plan options to choose from, ranging from a 500 Mbps to an 8 Gbps connection. Pricing starts low at $39.99  for the 500 Mbps plan and the 1 Gbps plan for the first three months. After the first three months, the 1 Gbps plan price increases to $69.99  monthly. All three plans are subject to price increases after the first year of service. Price increases aren’t disclosed and vary by location. Learn More: Kinetic review Kinetic by Windstream pricing may vary by location for its three plan options. The company’s 1Gig fiber plan option provides a three-month introductory offer of $39.99  monthly. 	Best wireless speed Best wireless speed Verizon 5G    Verizon 5G wireless internet operates on its growing high-speed 5G cellular network. The company offers two internet connection plans for home users, both of which are eligible for bundling with Verizon’s other communication services to save money and provide convenience. The company’s 5G network serves areas in 47 states, excluding Alaska, New Hampshire and Vermont. In states where the service is available, connecting is possible anywhere Verizon’s 5G signal can reach. In places where 5G isn’t available, customers can still connect using its 4G LTE service. However, download speeds drop somewhat from 85 Mbps to around 70. Verizon offers two 5G plan options. One features download speeds between 85 and 300 Mbps with an upload speed of 10 Mbps. The other provides 300 to 1,000 Mbps download speeds and up to 50 Mbps uploading. Learn More:  Verizon 5G review Verizon 5G offers two plans with no data caps or contracts. The company guarantees pricing for three years after signup. The list of rural internet service providers is growing. In addition to our top five company picks, several other providers also offer solid options for rural internet customers. Google Fiber has grown to serve 18 states and also offers phone and television services. While most of Google’s service areas are within metropolitan locations , its network reaches some rural residences. The company offers four connection plans ranging from 1 to 8 Gbps starting at $70, including installation, equipment and no data caps. Charter Spectrum offers high-speed internet connections for prices starting at $49.99. The company offers its service in 40 states using a hybrid network of coax and fiber connectivity. Spectrum offers three basic plan options with additional optional services, such as professional installation and built-in Wi-Fi connectivity, for extra costs. The three plans include 300, 500 and 1,000 Mbps options. For prices starting at $44.99 with autopay, customers can enjoy Frontier’s 500 Mbps fiber hybrid internet connection. Frontier services, available in 29 states and including many rural areas, also feature a 1 Gbps plan, a 2 Gbps option for under $100 with autopay and a 5 Gbps plan that includes a high-performance router in its monthly price. Determining which ISP can meet the needs of your home and family comes down to how you use the internet. Working from home may require video conferencing, which requires higher speeds and low lag times than those who use the internet simply to keep in touch. Gamers also demand more from their internet provider than casual users. The method of connecting to your ISP impacts almost every aspect of how usable the service is, whether you have a bundled setup or an internet-only plan. Depending on where you live, your choices may include fiber optic, DSL, cable or cellular connections, all of which can provide high speeds and reliability under the right conditions. Choosing one is sometimes a compromise that gets you the best of what you need while sacrificing something less crucial. Despite some rural locations now seeing fiber internet service becoming available, many places still must choose from a satellite, DSL, cable or cellular network connection. Though satellite connections are available almost anywhere, they can suffer from low speeds. At the same time, DSL and cable can also experience reduced speeds over distance, and cellular networks work best only with a strong network connection. When electronic signals must travel through a wire, such as in a DSL or cable internet connection, slower signals can result from having to cover long distances. Not only does latency increase over distance, but the signal strength can also suffer. If your only option is wired service, find a provider with services as physically near you as possible. The exception to this is fiber optic internet connections, which are (more or less) immune to many of the usual pitfalls of standard wired service. Fast and reliable internet connection speed is crucial for those who rely on the internet for work or play. However, casual internet users can also become frustrated if their connection speed makes them wait for pages to load. About 12 Mbps is fast enough for connecting a single device to browse the news and social media. Families will require a minimum of around 25 Mbps, while those who work from home or enjoy online games should look for internet companies offering speeds above 50 Mbps. Serious users benefit most from speeds exceeding 100 Mbps. Internet service may be limited to just a couple of connection options in rural areas, but that fact is changing as networks grow and technology advances. Cable internet is a wired internet service that uses cable TV transmission wires to connect your home to the web. Many cable internet customers combine their television and internet in a bundle from just one provider. Cable internet is available in many, but certainly not all, areas. Advertised as being available everywhere, satellite internet service isn’t bound by wires. Instead, signals are transmitted to and from orbiting satellites. Traditionally, satellite connections have been relatively slow, with high lag times. With changing technology, the connections are improving and speeding up, but work is still underway in many areas. Fiber optic internet offers fast download and upload speeds over long distances through a physical connection—that’s if the service is available in your area. Some rural locations now have fiber internet choices, but it’s still off in the future for many. Your existing telephone line can carry a DSL internet signal. Not to be confused with the now-archaic dial-up internet, DSL offers higher bandwidth and faster speeds through a constant connection. Mobile hotspots using your cell phone operate through cellular telephone networks. Home cellular internet is similar in operation and can provide high-speed, private connections by using a home-based router to connect to a cellular signal. Though 5G service can offer high speeds, you must live within range of the nearest cell tower for a reliable connection. For customers looking for a simple connection for casual internet use, plans start at $25 to $35 for minimal speeds of under 50 Mbps and depending on location and connection type. An annual contract may be necessary to access the lowest prices. Those who work at home, often attend virtual meetings or engage in online gaming will likely require faster connections of 100 Mbps or greater. Those plans start at around $50 per month for a rural connection. For the fastest available speeds that reach up to 3Gigs, expect a monthly cost of up to $300. Though there are a number of ways to receive a signal in rural areas, there are two main types of internet connections. Wired internet connections are highly reliable due to their physical connection to the ISP. DSL, cable and fiber optic connections are all wired systems that offer excellent speed and durability. For rural customers, the type of wired internet you choose often is dictated by what your ISP offers in your area. Wireless internet, as the name implies, consists of a device that exchanges signals between it and the ISP. The device can be a cell phone, home-based router or satellite antenna. Available almost everywhere in one form or another, wireless internet offers variable speeds depending on the type of service and the signal strength in your location. Rural internet connection speeds vary from a minimum of about 5 Mbps to 1,000 Mbps or 1 Gbps. However, if a rural fiber optic connection is available, speeds can reach up to 10 Gbps. Connection speed can determine the number of users and devices using the service effectively at the same time. The type of online activity also affects the speed necessary for seamless internet use. To determine the best rural internet providers ranking, the Forbes Home editorial team analyzed third-party data on 22 different companies, with each company’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: We evaluated review profiles for each competing company, including information from the Better Business Bureau, Trustpilot, Consumer Affairs and other reputable sources to determine the scores in our customer review category. Customer support attributes were examined and scored for each company based on the availability of a pre-sale online chat function, advertised phone service availability and website aspects, such as the inclusion of an informative blog, knowledge base and community forum. Determining each company’s plan score included measuring metrics, such as the lowest and highest plan prices, whether or not a contract is necessary, installation options and plan specifics like bundling availability and unlimited data options.
Local Internet Providers By CityAbileneAmarilloAustinCorpus ChristiDallasEl PasoFort WorthHoustonLubbockMidlandOdessaSan AngeloSan Antonio Local Internet Providers By City  Available plan features and details comprised each contender’s scoring in this category. Metrics include available connection types, data cap specifics, minimum and maximum advertised upload and download speeds, additional services available and specific bundling options. The nationwide availability score considered the number of states and locations within those states where each company provides rural internet service. Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico counted as state locations in our scoring. We reserved a limited number of points to award companies that exhibit extraordinary features or attributes above and beyond normal expectations. The internet has become a vital tool for many of us, and connection speeds keep increasing as technology moves forward. Casual internet users will experience trouble-free consistency with a connection as low as 25 Mbps. Families with multiple devices and those who make a living engaged with the web don’t consider internet speeds as good until they reach download speeds of 50 to 100 Mbps and higher. Setting up your own internet is possible for most types of connections. The exception is satellite internet which requires the work of a professional to get the system up and running. Although setting up your system isn’t physically difficult, if you’re not familiar with how the components work, you’ll likely benefit from hiring a pro to do the work to avoid frustration. The best internet for rural areas often comes down to which one is available. However, if you have choices in your location, each type of connection has its positives and negatives. Wired connections tend to be robust, fast and predictable if available where you are. Wireless connections, despite improvements, can suffer from slightly slower speeds and connectivity issues in exchange for more availability. Living off the grid doesn’t mean you must be completely disconnected. Going to town and taking advantage of Wi-Fi hotspots is an excellent occasional solution. For more permanent methods, consider a cellular or satellite connection. Low population density, distance, installation challenges and money all limit the number and quality of internet connection options in rural areas. Installing cables or fiber optic lines over great distances is expensive. Companies may generally find that installing the infrastructure over long distances isn’t lucrative enough to be worth the investment. As new technologies, like fiber optics, develop further and become less expensive to install over longer distances, internet providers will likely see an opportunity to invest more into the necessary infrastructure, making rural internet service better over time. In the meantime, technologies like 5G cellular connections and satellite internet connections are continuously improving. Several providers offer pre-paid rural internet connections. Many of these providers offer satellite internet connections that are available virtually anywhere there can be a direct line of sight to orbiting satellites. Several cellular communication companies also offer prepaid plans in which a mobile phone is usable as an internet hotspot, also called tethering. 
				Having spent 30+ years in residential construction, contracting, remodeling, maintenance and home repair, Deane now contributes DIY, informational and financial content as a freelance writer and consultant for several publications such as Angi, Trusted Company Reviews, USNews and World Report and Small Spaces Great Life.
			 
				Cassidy is an updates editor whose main responsibility is to write and edit articles on a range of home improvement topics. Her passion for lifestyle writing began with her editorial apprenticeship at Travel + Leisure magazine. Moving from travel to home, Cassidy now specializes in writing DIY and interior design content.
			