Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Votes in the U.S. HouseS3115: POWER 2.0 ActVoting 406 for and 14 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that makes permanent the requirement for the chief judge of each federal judicial district to lead, at least annually, a public event to promote pro bono legal services for survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.Yes: Brian Fitzpatrick, R-1st (Bucks, parts of Montgomery and Philadelphia); Madeleine Dean, D-4th (Montgomery, parts of Berks); Susan Wild, D-7th (Lehigh, Northampton, parts of Monroe); Matt Cartwright, D-8th (most of Monroe), Dan Meuser, R-9th (Schuylkill, parts of Carbon and Berks).S231: PFAS Act: Protecting Firefighters from Adverse Substances Act or the PFAS ActVoting 400 for and 22 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop guidance for firefighters and other emergency response personnel on training, education programs, and best practices to protect them from exposure to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, commonly referred to as PFASs, from firefighting foam and to prevent the release of PFASs into the environment.

Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, MeuserHR 2521: To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the feasibility and advisability of furnishing doula services to certain veterans, and for other purposes.Voting 376 for and 44 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a five-year pilot program to furnish doula services to pregnant veterans who are enrolled in the VA health care system. The program must furnish doula services through eligible entities by expanding the VA’s Whole Health model to measure the impact that doula support services have on birth and mental health outcomes of pregnant veterans.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, MeuserHR 4785: Uyghur Policy Act of 2021Voting 407 for and 17 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that addresses human rights issues concerning the Uyghurs and other minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in China.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, MeuserHR 6878: Pregnant Women in Custody ActVoting 324 for and 90 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill to address the health needs of incarcerated women related to pregnancy and childbirth, and for other purposes.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, MeuserHR 3372: One Stop Shop Community Reentry Program Act of 2021Voting 259 for and 167 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that authorizes grants to support community-based reentry resources for previously incarcerated individuals who return to their communities.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, MeuserHR1499Voting 216 for and 202 against, the House on Wednesday Set forth the rule for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3372) to authorize implementation grants to community-based nonprofits to operate one-stop reentry centers; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6878) to address the health needs of incarcerated women related to pregnancy and childbirth, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8876) to reauthorize the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 100) to provide for a resolution with respect to the unresolved disputes between certain railroads represented by the National Carriers’ Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and certain of their employees.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, CartwrightNo: Fitzpatrick, MeuserHR 5455: Terry Technical Correction ActVoting 307 for and 101 against, the House on Tuesday passed a bill that broadens the scope of crack cocaine offenders who are eligible for a retroactive sentencing reduction under the First Step Act of 2018.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Fitzpatrick, MeuserS.3846: Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Reauthorization Act of 2022Voting 389 for and 22 against, the House on Wednesday passed a bill that modifies and reauthorizes through FY2026 the Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Program. The program provides state, local, and tribal grants to improve the criminal justice system’s response to people with mental health disorders.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Fitzpatrick, MeuserS.4003: Law Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022Voting 247 for and 160 against, the House on Tuesday passed a bill that directs the Department of Justice to develop scenario-based training curricula (or identify existing curricula) that includes topics such as alternatives to the use of force, de-escalation tactics, and safely responding to an individual experiencing a mental, behavioral health, or suicidal crisis.Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, FitzpatrickNo: MeuserU.S. SENATEHJ Res.100: To provide for a resolution with respect to the unresolved disputes between certain railroads represented by the National Carriers’ Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and certain of their employees.The Senate voted 80 for and 15 against, on Thursday.Yes: Bob Casey (D)No: Pat Toomey (R)Doris L. Pryor, The JudiciaryVoting 62 for and 31 against, the Senate on Thursday confirmed Doris L. Pryor, of Indiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit.Yes: CaseyNo: ToomeyJerry W. Blackwell, The JudiciaryVoting 54 for and 42 against, the Senate on Thursday confirmed Jerry W. Blackwell, of Minnesota, to be United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota.Yes: CaseyNo: ToomeyRobert Phillip Storch, Department of DefenseVoting 92 for and 3 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Robert Phillip Storch, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense.Yes: CaseyNot voting: ToomeyAnne M. Nardacci, The JudiciaryVoting 52 for and 44 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Anne M. Nardacci, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York.Yes: CaseyNo: ToomeyCamille L. Velez-Rive, The JudiciaryVoting 55 for and 42 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Camille L. Velez-Rive, of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico.Yes: CaseyNo: ToomeyHR 8404: Respect for Marriage ActVoting 61 for and 36 against, the Senate on Tuesday passed a bill that provides statutory authority for same-sex and interracial marriages.Specifically, the bill repeals and replaces provisions that define, for purposes of federal law, marriage as between a man and a woman and spouse as a person of the opposite sex with provisions that recognize any marriage that is valid under state law. (The Supreme Court held that the current provisions were unconstitutional in United States v. Windsor in 2013.)Yes: CaseyNot Voting: Toomey S3115: POWER 2.0 Act Voting 406 for and 14 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that makes permanent the requirement for the chief judge of each federal judicial district to lead, at least annually, a public event to promote pro bono legal services for survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Yes: Brian Fitzpatrick, R-1st (Bucks, parts of Montgomery and Philadelphia); Madeleine Dean, D-4th (Montgomery, parts of Berks); Susan Wild, D-7th (Lehigh, Northampton, parts of Monroe); Matt Cartwright, D-8th (most of Monroe), Dan Meuser, R-9th (Schuylkill, parts of Carbon and Berks). S231: PFAS Act: Protecting Firefighters from Adverse Substances Act or the PFAS Act Voting 400 for and 22 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop guidance for firefighters and other emergency response personnel on training, education programs, and best practices to protect them from exposure to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, commonly referred to as PFASs, from firefighting foam and to prevent the release of PFASs into the environment. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Meuser HR 2521: To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the feasibility and advisability of furnishing doula services to certain veterans, and for other purposes. Voting 376 for and 44 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a five-year pilot program to furnish doula services to pregnant veterans who are enrolled in the VA health care system. The program must furnish doula services through eligible entities by expanding the VA’s Whole Health model to measure the impact that doula support services have on birth and mental health outcomes of pregnant veterans. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Meuser HR 4785: Uyghur Policy Act of 2021 Voting 407 for and 17 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that addresses human rights issues concerning the Uyghurs and other minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in China. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Meuser HR 6878: Pregnant Women in Custody Act Voting 324 for and 90 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill to address the health needs of incarcerated women related to pregnancy and childbirth, and for other purposes. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Meuser HR 3372: One Stop Shop Community Reentry Program Act of 2021 Voting 259 for and 167 against, the House on Thursday passed a bill that authorizes grants to support community-based reentry resources for previously incarcerated individuals who return to their communities. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Meuser HR1499 Voting 216 for and 202 against, the House on Wednesday Set forth the rule for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3372) to authorize implementation grants to community-based nonprofits to operate one-stop reentry centers; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6878) to address the health needs of incarcerated women related to pregnancy and childbirth, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 8876) to reauthorize the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 100) to provide for a resolution with respect to the unresolved disputes between certain railroads represented by the National Carriers’ Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and certain of their employees. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright No: Fitzpatrick, Meuser HR 5455: Terry Technical Correction Act Voting 307 for and 101 against, the House on Tuesday passed a bill that broadens the scope of crack cocaine offenders who are eligible for a retroactive sentencing reduction under the First Step Act of 2018. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Fitzpatrick, Meuser S.3846: Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Reauthorization Act of 2022 Voting 389 for and 22 against, the House on Wednesday passed a bill that modifies and reauthorizes through FY2026 the Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Program. The program provides state, local, and tribal grants to improve the criminal justice system’s response to people with mental health disorders. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Fitzpatrick, Meuser S.4003: Law Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022 Voting 247 for and 160 against, the House on Tuesday passed a bill that directs the Department of Justice to develop scenario-based training curricula (or identify existing curricula) that includes topics such as alternatives to the use of force, de-escalation tactics, and safely responding to an individual experiencing a mental, behavioral health, or suicidal crisis. Yes: Fitzpatrick, Dean, Wild, Cartwright, Fitzpatrick No: Meuser U.S. SENATE HJ Res.100: To provide for a resolution with respect to the unresolved disputes between certain railroads represented by the National Carriers’ Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor Conference and certain of their employees. The Senate voted 80 for and 15 against, on Thursday. Yes: Bob Casey (D) No: Pat Toomey (R) Doris L. Pryor, The Judiciary Voting 62 for and 31 against, the Senate on Thursday confirmed Doris L. Pryor, of Indiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit. Yes: Casey No: Toomey Jerry W. Blackwell, The Judiciary Voting 54 for and 42 against, the Senate on Thursday confirmed Jerry W. Blackwell, of Minnesota, to be United States District Judge for the District of Minnesota. Yes: Casey No: Toomey Robert Phillip Storch, Department of Defense Voting 92 for and 3 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Robert Phillip Storch, of the District of Columbia, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense. Yes: Casey Not voting: Toomey Anne M. Nardacci, The Judiciary Voting 52 for and 44 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Anne M. Nardacci, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York. Yes: Casey No: Toomey Camille L. Velez-Rive, The Judiciary Voting 55 for and 42 against, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed Camille L. Velez-Rive, of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico. Yes: Casey No: Toomey HR 8404: Respect for Marriage Act Voting 61 for and 36 against, the Senate on Tuesday passed a bill that provides statutory authority for same-sex and interracial marriages. Specifically, the bill repeals and replaces provisions that define, for purposes of federal law, marriage as between a man and a woman and spouse as a person of the opposite sex with provisions that recognize any marriage that is valid under state law. (The Supreme Court held that the current provisions were unconstitutional in United States v. Windsor in 2013.) Yes: Casey Not Voting: Toomey Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call