The Senior List is supported by commissions from providers listed on our site. Read our Editorial Guidelines. Get an annual AARP membership for only $12. Limited time offer. Editor's Rating: Editor's Rating: When I moved into my new home in Providence, Rhode Island, I was excited to try out the new internet providers, Xfinity being first on the list. These days, the internet is as much of a necessity as gas or water, so it was actually the first thing I installed, if you can believe it. In this review, I’ll walk you through my experience using Xfinity internet for a month, from the installation process to the pricing. I’ll also compare it to other providers I’ve tried to help you make your buying decision. Let’s get started. FYI: While Xfinity internet is among the most affordable options, it’s not available everywhere. To find affordable internet in your area, read our guide to the best home internet for seniors. When it comes to pricing, Xfinity is pretty simple. Download speeds range from 300 to 2,000 Mbps, with prices ranging from $25 to $90 per month. Note that I chose the 800 Mbps plan, which is no longer offered as of June 2024. *Prices reflect the $10 discount for enrolling in automatic payments. Xfinity home internet is available in the following states (however, I should note that the company does not service every region of these states. Additionally, the availability of plans and their pricing will vary by location): Based on the chart above, Xfinity internet pricing seems simple, right? Naturally, like most internet providers, there are a number of extra fees that may apply. I had the option to bundle my internet with mobile service, TV service, home phone service, or even home security. However, the only discounts I got were on mobile and TV service. I could’ve saved $20 a year to bundle internet and mobile service from Xfinity, or, with the lowest-tier 300 Mbps plan, I could’ve added an unlimited mobile line and gotten a second line for free. I already have a mobile provider, so I didn’t take Xfinity up on this offer, but it’s a good deal for couples in particular. Aside from mobile service, I could’ve saved up to 30 percent off streaming. With Xfinity StreamSaver, which costs only $15 a month with any internet plan, I would have gotten both Netflix Standard with ads and Peacock Premium with ads. I already pay for both of these services, so I didn’t take Xfinity up on this deal, but another interesting offer was called NOW StreamSaver, which added on Apple TV+ in addition to Netflix and Peacock, plus over 40 on-demand and live channels like Hallmark, HGTV, TLC, and more of my favorites for only $30 a month. Not too bad for live TV and streaming built into one! To learn more about Xfinity cable, read our guide to Xfinity TV for seniors. Unfortunately, Xfinity does not have a plan or discount for seniors. However, there is a discount for low-income individuals. For only $9.95 and no pesky equipment fee, eligible customers can sign up for the Internet Essentials plan from Xfinity. With the $9.95 package, speeds are capped at 50 Mbps, but there’s also a $29.95 option with speeds of up to 100 Mbps. To qualify, you must meet the following requirements: Many seniors enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid will want to choose from these discounted plans. You’ll have to show Xfinity either your Medicaid card or your last letter of eligibility for anyone in your home. I’d choose the $29.95 plan if you want to stream, but you can go with the cheaper plan if you only plan to browse the internet. Pro Tip: If you don’t qualify for the low-income plan, you can still find affordable internet for $20 per month. Read our guide to the best cheap internet to learn more. Because the nearest Xfinity store isn’t in my state, I ordered my Xfinity internet plan and Gateway online. It was really easy for me to enter my address and choose from one of their plans. Once I chose my plan and entered my credit card information, I rented the Gateway because I didn’t have a compatible modem. Shipping was free. Next, I had the option to add streaming and TV, which I passed on. And voilà! My Gateway came in the mail about three days later. Getting my Xfinity internet up and running was a quick and easy process, and my Gateway came with printed-out instructions. First I downloaded the Xfinity app onto my iPhone and created an account. Then I clicked on my Account tab and, under devices, clicked on the Gateway. From there, the app told me what to do to activate my internet, step by step. It was as easy as plugging my gateway into my wall outlet and my cable outlet, choosing a Wi-Fi name and password, and waiting about 10 minutes. After that, I was online! I used the Xfinity app not only to install my Gateway, but also to check my internet connection if something was down. I just had to click “Test my internet connection,” and the app would make sure that all of the devices on my network, from my laptop and TV to my smart light bulbs and switches, were connected. I also used the app to view my internet data usage, manage my billing, and change my subscription. The app worked well and has a 4.3 rating in the Apple App Store and a 3.9 in the Google Play Store. My partner and I work from home, meaning our internet is always working hard to keep us connected. Typically, I don’t have any speed issues, unless there is a rare network outage. When I did a random test at the end of June through the Xfinity app, I found that I was actually getting 116 percent of my plan’s speed, meaning speeds that were 16 percent faster than I paid for. Was this the case, or was Xfinity just telling me what I wanted to hear? To check with a third party, I also took Google’s speed tests. See my results below. While I paid for speeds of up to 800 Mbps, the speed I got was only 518.7, which is actually 54 percent below what I pay for, not 116 percent above. Still, I’m not too mad about this, as I never notice latency with my internet connections, except when Netflix auto plays trailers.  When I signed up for Xfinity in August of 2023, prices were slightly different from what I detailed above. My internet subscription costs $110 a month. However, I got $40 per month off for signing up for a long-term contract, plus $10 a month off for signing up for automatic payments and paperless billing. That brings me down to $50 a month, before you add back in the $15 a month for the Gateway, plus the $1.20 a month for taxes, surcharges, and fees. Altogether, I pay $76.20 a month for Xfinity internet, although it would have only been about $60 without the Gateway. These prices are pretty reasonable considering the speeds I get. There’s no doubt that Xfinity is more affordable than Verizon, starting at $25 a month compared to $49.99. Xfinity also has higher maximum download speeds: 2 Gbps compared to 1 Gbps with Verizon. Neither provider charges overage fees, but while Verizon includes equipment in its costs, Xfinity’s equipment costs add on another $15 a month, assuming you don’t already own a compatible modem. For the fastest, most affordable internet, choose Xfinity over Verizon, particularly if you already own a modem. However, Verizon may be a better option if you want to get a price-lock guarantee without having to commit to a two-year or three-year contract. Otherwise, monthly Xfinity is a solid internet provider, providing fast speeds for relatively reasonable prices. It is especially good for someone who wants lower speeds of only 300 Mbps, as they can get away with paying only $25 per month for the internet. It’s also ideal for someone who wants to install their own internet and already owns a compatible modem, or someone who wants to bundle internet with mobile, TV, or streaming. However, Xfinity is not ideal if you don’t have a compatible modem, as your monthly costs will go up by $15 a month. It’s also not for you if you don’t want to pay extra for a price lock of more than 12 months. To learn more about your options, read my rundown of the best internet providers for seniors. Xfinity internet costs between $25 and $90 a month. However, you can save $10 a month by enrolling in paperless automatic billing and payments, bringing costs down to $15 to $80 per month. No, Xfinity does not have an internet plan for seniors, specifically. However, seniors enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid or other government programs like SNAP can get home internet for only $9.95 a month. Yes, you have to pay $15 a month for the Xfinity Gateway if you don’t already own a compatible modem. Or, for $25 a month, you can get the Gateway lease plus WiFi Boost Pods, which are Wi-Fi extenders for someone with a larger home. However, if you have a compatible modem, you won’t have to pay extra for Xfinity equipment. You can cancel your Xfinity internet for free if you didn’t pay extra for the price lock. However, if you did pay extra for the price lock and you cancel early, you will pay an early termination fee of $110. Ryan has years of experience researching and testing products that help people successfully age in place. After years of working for various publications such as Boston Magazine and The Believer, he has found his home at The Senior List, writing about all things related to caregiving and senior healthcare.   Name


  Email


  Phone


  What would you like to share with us?


 
 Δ Copyright © 2024 TSL, LLC. A Centerfield Media Company. All rights reserved. The Senior List should be used for information and entertainment purposes only. The Senior List and their writers, business partners and associates do not provide financial, legal or health related advice as a substitute for professional consultation. By using The Senior List.com you agree to the Cookie Policy, Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Members get updates like best products for seniors and senior discounts delivered right to their inbox for free.