MENU Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. Our business internet providers ensure you have the speed and reliability to stay connected and operational at all times. At Business News Daily, we’ve spent years researching and testing the technology that enables entrepreneurs to accomplish their goals and scale their businesses more efficiently. Our team of small business tech specialists conducts independent evaluations of the best technology platforms to determine which best meet the needs of small business owners. We also regularly consult with technology experts. including IT professionals, developers, implementation specialists and cybersecurity professionals, to stay on top of the latest tech trends impacting small businesses. And every review we publish is evaluated by our editorial staff to ensure objectivity, accuracy and fairness are at the core of our decision-making. Learn more about our editorial guidelines. Our review of the best business internet services involved firsthand testing by our team of small business technology experts. Our review process included an examination of pricing and plans, as well as internet speeds, uptime and redundancy; cybersecurity features; and bundle options. We also looked for features like persistent IP addresses and considered how widespread... Our review of the best business internet services involved firsthand testing by our team of small business technology experts. Our review process included an examination of pricing and plans, as well as internet speeds, uptime and redundancy; cybersecurity features; and bundle options. We also looked for features like persistent IP addresses and considered how widespread the availability of each’s business internet service was across the U.S. Finally, we examined customer reviews of internet service providers to see how well they stack up for real-life business use cases. considered reviewed selected Our review of the best business internet services involved firsthand testing by our team of small business technology experts. Our review process included an examination of pricing and plans, as well as internet speeds, uptime and redundancy; cybersecurity features; and bundle options. We also looked for features like persistent IP addresses and considered how widespread the availability of each’s business internet service was across the U.S. Finally, we examined customer reviews of internet service providers to see how well they stack up for real-life business use cases. considered reviewed selected Much of modern business is done online, from marketing your products and services to your target audience to receiving customer orders to managing your business with cloud-based software. In order to do all these things successfully, you need a reliable business internet service with enough bandwidth and uptime to keep you connected and on task. We’ve researched some of the best business internet service providers out there to help you make the best decision for your business when it comes to staying connected. Our best picks below deliver business internet you can count on so you can focus on growing your business rather than struggling with connectivity. Digital Entrepreneurs Startups Remote Teams Rural Businesses Brick-and-Mortar Businesses Small Businesses $70 per month $69.99 per month $64.99 per month $50 per month $69 per month $55 per month $99.00 $99.95 $0.00 $300.00 $99 (free self-installation) $100 Free $19.95 Free Free $15.99 per month ($299.99 one-time purchase) $9.99 per month Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No 3 6 3 Yes 3 5 We chose AT&T for digital entrepreneurs who utilize digital marketing and need the fastest internet speeds to promote their brand and build out their solo careers. AT&T Business provides one of the widest selections of internet speeds on the market. Symmetric download/upload speeds, internet backup options and dedicated internet with speeds up to 1 Tbps are just a few of the reasons this service excels in media-rich environments.  You can customize your internet plan with a few available add-ons for voice, internet backup and added security measures. Source: AT&T Whether you need the fastest internet speeds to keep livestreams going or need to carry out large data transfers between networks, AT&T can provide some of the most powerful broadband speeds on the market through its business internet plans. Customers in select areas will greatly benefit from using AT&T Business Fiber, while those who choose AT&T Wireless Broadband will find themselves able to connect from virtually anywhere. Though a bit on the pricey side, customers won’t need to worry about annual contracts or overage fees ― common constraints that come with traditional residential internet. AT&T Business customers have complained about the lack of a free trial period and premium consulting or integration fees, but to be fair, those same complaints could easily apply to most competitors in this category. AT&T Business earned a 7.6.0/10 on TrustRadius. Read our AT&T Business Internet review. For companies who are just starting out or only have a small team, Comcast Business Internet is an ideal internet solution. Customers can choose one of six business internet plans that cater to their specific business needs and can scale with Comcast as their business grows. Wi-Fi hotspots and 24/7 business support are also included to help keep startups running, with the option to include additional features like Ethernet Dedicated Internet for greater security and speed.  See what you can expect to accomplish online with a high-speed broadband connection from Comcast. Source: Comcast As many people switch over to part-time or contract work, small startups have become a popular career choice for individuals looking to contribute to short- and long-term projects. For business owners, having fast and reliable business internet from a company like Comcast allows them to focus on recruiting, hiring and managing the best talent possible. Customers touted Comcast’s business Internet service for its reliability, affordability and consistency. Those with a generally positive experience have enjoyed uninterrupted service and great tech support. However, other customers have complained about charges related to the cancellation process. Comcast Business Internet earned a 5.9/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full Comcast review. Remote teams can benefit greatly from Spectrum’s Business Internet services thanks to the numerous calling features included with business phones on top of the fast internet speeds. Employees working remotely or using a hybrid work model can also take advantage of Spectrum’s Business Connect app with RingEX (formerly RingCentral) to communicate and process large file transfers. Read our full RingEX review.  Available advanced Wi-Fi can automatically optimize performance, block malicious websites and help you manage devices connected to your network. Source: Spectrum The company focuses on delivering digital business services to customers at an affordable cost. While it does offer internet-only packages, we think the real advantages come from bundling it with phone and TV. We appreciate the lack of long-term contracts and added taxes that are fairly common with business internet plans. Customers who are transitioning from a different provider are offered up to $1,000 in credit to cover early termination fees, which is the second best offer next to Verizon’s $1,500 credit. Spectrum Business customers have called the service team “kind, courteous and knowledgeable, exactly what you hope for when dealing with customer service” when trying to make changes to an existing plan. However, others have been unhappy with the service they’re received when trying to troubleshoot connectivity issues. Spectrum received a score of 3.4/5 on Trustpilot. Read our full Spectrum review. Viasat’s Business Internet, though not as fast as fiber or cable, allows businesses in rural areas to set up and install business internet in what would typically be considered a non-serviceable area. With five satellites in orbit, Viasat is capable of providing high-quality satellite internet with no hidden fees attached. Where cable and fiber cannot cover, Viasat will provide to its customers.  Many business internet service providers including Viasat offer promotions for new customers with free installation. Source: Viasat Compared to other providers, Viasat also includes Persistent IPs. Unlike static or dynamic IPs, businesses who use Viasat’s business internet will be assigned three IP addresses dynamically and will occasionally switch between them to keep their businesses running. As the IP addresses do not change over time, this makes it easier to provide remote access to the business network and monitor activity on any connected devices. Read our full Viasat review. We found that those who are looking to start a brick-and-mortar business will find Verizon’s easy internet installation and vast 5G internet coverage especially helpful. Known primarily for its vast phone plans, Verizon also offers Business Internet plans using 5G technology to keep business owners connected to their customers. Business customers can choose from three different connection types based on their needs and preferences.  Verizon offers two different options for wireless internet with 5G and LTE plans. Source: Verizon Outside of 5G, Verizon also offers Fios and LTE business internet for customers who may need different connections for their business. Its Fios Business Internet plan connects businesses to an ultrafast fiber network while LTE Business Internet provides wireless connectivity for companies that need business mobility. Verizon customers have few complaints about their connectivity when using the service to replace traditional phones with VoIP options or when connecting MRI devices. They also appreciate the easy installation process and consistent billing. Verizon earned a 9.1/10 on TrustRadius. Read our full Verizon review. Small businesses need to control recurring costs with software and services that are easy to operate without a computer science degree. Optimum offers internet speeds from 100 Mbps to 1 Gbps (depending on your location) at a lower-than average starting rate of only $55 per month when bundled with business phone or business hosted voice with autopay and paperless billing. The company works well to make itself valuable to non-technical business owners with built-in cyber security tools. This includes proactive detection to stop DDos attacks, phishing and malware infections. We like how the service automatically blocks malicious sites by presenting you with a “block page” screen if you attempt to engage with a dangerous domain.  Optimum offers basic internet and high-speed fiber, but options are limited by your location. Source: Optimum Optimum advertises high uptime or connectivity with 99.9 percent reliability and 24/7 support across all subscription levels to help you troubleshoot any issues should they arise. While competitors like Verizon and Viasat offer similar credits to cover your early termination fees with another service provider, Optimum separates itself from the competition with a 60-day money-back guarantee. Many factors need to be considered when looking into the cost of business internet. Most providers will offer plans that only reflect the cost of internet itself while others will offer one price that covers additional fees and costs, such as installation or early termination. In our review, we found the base price of business internet to range from $49.99 per month to $500 per month, depending on the type of service and plan. This range does not include any additional equipment or installation fees that may be included. The Business Internet price ranges for the best picks we reviewed are as follows: AT&T, Comcast, Verizon and Spectrum’s prices reflect internet-only. Viasat’s price range, while reflective of its internet cost, comes with many features that offset its price point. These features include but are not limited to hardware leasing, multiple IP addresses and prioritized connections. If you’re running your business under a shared internet connection, there’s a chance that you may have experienced slow internet speeds in moments of high traffic or congestion. When using business internet, however, customers typically will have a dedicated internet option that delivers fast internet speeds through a private connection. Even in moments of high internet traffic, business-critical systems, such as point-of-sale software and data transfers, can continue running smoothly.  Verizon Internet Gateway for businesses offers 5G wireless connection with fast, symmetrical upload and download speeds. (Source: Verizon) Things happen. Internet outages, natural disasters and other unexpected events could cause business internet to go down momentarily. Business internet providers are aware of this and know that businesses could end up losing money if they lose connectivity. When reviewing our vendors, we found that each of them offered various types of internet backup options. Whether it’s purchasing broadband internet as a secondary connection or using a backup router that offers hours of battery-powered connection, business internet providers typically will include this as part of their internet plans as well as 24/7 support and protection to keep you in the loop about your connection status until the primary connection comes back online. A lot of businesses nowadays don’t just rely on the internet to run their business. Calling via phone and video is just as relevant, whether a company is exclusively in-office or works off of a remote/hybrid work model. Most business internet providers are aware of this and may offer potential business customers great deals if they bundle internet with their phone or TV services.  Service providers like Optimum offer multiple bundle options that can help lower your annual expenses. Source: Optimum In some cases, business customers may be able to save some money on this as well. More often than not, bundling business internet with other services offered by the internet provider will result in a discounted price for all services. When starting a business, you may decide that switching providers is the best move. Maybe you’ve already started a business and you’re wanting to take advantage of offers provided by another internet provider. Some business internet providers do offer the option of buying out a contract from a previous provider to close in on a contract with a business customer. It’s not strictly a contract buyout, however. The provider is not purchasing the contract to then give the new contract to the new business customer. Rather, they provide a limited amount of “credit” to cover early termination fees and other costs associated with ending a contract early. Be wary that the new provider may require your existing contract to explicitly say “early termination fees” as proof of the cancellation. Compared to traditional residential internet, most business internet plans come with additional perks for business owners to help them either kick-start their careers or grow their company even further: Priority connection just for your business: Most if not all business internet plans come with a priority connection data limit. When connection speeds slow down due to high traffic, your business can run uninterrupted with a private network dedicated specifically to your business. If you operate your business in multiple buildings, you may be able to get dedicated internet for each location as well. 24/7 business support: Customers purchasing business internet will have access to 24/7 support for business-specific inquiries. General questions and maintenance/outage support can be handled through a provider’s specified contact method. Discounts from bundles: Providers like Verizon and Spectrum offer some major discounts when you bundle their business internet with additional services offered, such as TV or mobile. These plans are designed to enhance your business internet experience and make running your business much more effective. These add-ons include features like web conferencing and extended phone lines. When choosing a business internet provider, here are some things to consider. Do you plan on starting your business as a sole proprietor? Do you want to open up a small shop in a rural area? Is your business model heavily reliant on digital marketing and web conferencing? Figuring out your business type could greatly determine the business internet plan you decide on for your business needs. Some internet providers include additional features for specific business internet plans, while others offer them for an additional charge. Consider this when deciding what specific business internet needs you have for your business.  After considering the pros and cons of being a small business owner and establishing your business brand, you’ll want to think about where to host your business. Most of the business internet providers we’ve listed offer relatively vast internet coverage. However, location is still something that should be considered when deciding what business internet plan to use. This is especially important if your team works off of a hybrid work model, where some employees may need to work from home in addition to working on-site. If you decide to make telecommuting a permanent arrangement for your business model, you’ll also need to consider if being a fully-remote team is an option. Do you plan on starting your own business as an aspiring entrepreneur or do you have a team already established? Do you have an idea of how many people you plan on hiring or have you closed in on your initial round of employees? If your business size is relatively small, you may be able to utilize a lower-tier business internet plan. When you need to upgrade or switch, most business internet providers will be more than happy to help you transition as your business scales. At Business News Daily, our team of small business tech experts research and tested business internet service providers to find the best for your business. We compared some of the leading solutions across more than 25 key metrics. We considered 24 internet service providers and closely reviewed and tested 11 of them before selecting our six best picks above. Below are the factors we considered when determining our best picks. Each is weighted according to how much the criteria typically influences business owners’ buying decisions. In addition to scoring each business internet service we reviewed based on this criteria, we also determined the best use case scenarios for each. No two businesses are exactly alike, so we put ourselves in the shoes of different types of small business owners and identify the best business internet service for a variety of needs. To learn more about how we review and test tech products and services for small businesses, read about our editorial process here.  Both types of internet typically offer similar internet plans, packages and prices. The major difference is that residential internet usually includes features catered to personal use, whereas business internet plans are designed for business owners and entrepreneurs. Business internet may offer more resilience and faster speeds so business operations can continue unheeded. Technically speaking, no. If you are just starting your business or running your business from home, you may be able to get away with just using residential internet. However, as your business grows, you may find that having business internet ― along with its many benefits that include dedicated connection and internet backup ― will be more suitable. Installation fees, equipment costs and features, such as priority connection and backup internet, are some other costs that business customers may need to consider when purchasing a business internet plan. The bandwidth you require for your business will depend on how many people you employ and how much they utilize the internet. For a team of one to five employees who only use the internet to send emails, you can probably get away with between 50 and 100 Mbps. If you have more than 50 employees working on an ecommerce website, for example, you’ll want a plan that exceeds 1 Gbps. Jeff Hale contributed to this article. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.