                      by Talk Business & Politics staff ([email protected])  April 19, 2023 6:49 pm 2,510 views  Dr. Greg Bledsoe, the former Arkansas Surgeon General, has joined Dallas-based employee well-being company Kindly Human as a strategic advisor. The Kindly Human mental well-being technology platform provides 24/7 preclinical peer support that helps employees navigate life stressors that people experience, such as financial, relationship, work, and health concerns. “Dr. Bledsoe will be an incredible champion for Kindly Human,” said Cole Egger, CEO and co-founder. “His unique background will be key in helping guide our team on strategic and clinical insights around preventative mental health, including the role of government in supporting the mental well-being of workplaces and communities.” Bledsoe served as Arkansas Surgeon General from 2015-2023. His past roles have included positions at Arkansas Heart Hospital, Align MD, and serving on the faculty of Johns Hopkins Department of Emergency Medicine. He was also a candidate for the GOP nomination for Arkansas Lt. Governor in 2022. Bledsoe holds a MD from the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and an MBA from MIT’s Sloan School of Management. “I’m excited to work with Kindly Human,” said Bledsoe. “Often in my work as an emergency medicine physician, I’ve thought that my patients needed a kind ear to listen – not a doctor – to help them sort through everyday stressful issues. Kindly Human offers that preclinical, empathetic peer support and can help users manage mental health concerns before they become critical and much more costly healthcare expenses.” Kindly Human is a provider of peer-based mental well-being solutions for employers. Their platform connects individuals dealing with everyday life struggles to empathetic, professionally trained peers who share the same experiences and cultural characteristics on a 24/7 basis. Arkansas headlines delivered to you on demand 

 by Sen. David Wallace and Rep. Joey Carr by Bourgon Reynolds by Christopher Wright by Roby Brock by Dr. Sam Makhoul 

  10 hours ago  16 hours ago  August 8, 2024 9:12 pm  August 8, 2024 8:51 pm  August 8, 2024 8:39 pm  5,689 views  1,924 views  1,284 views  740 views  687 views 
 
Talk Business & Politics is a news website that covers business, politics and culture in Arkansas. You can also sign up for daily e-mail news delivered every morning to your inbox.

 by Talk Business & Politics staff by Michael Tilley