
August 18, 2023 at 12:38 p.m.
| Updated August 19, 2023 at 10:47 p.m.
 by
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
 Dr. Karen Farst will become the next senior vice president and chief medical officer of Arkansas Children’s Hospital in Little Rock, the institution announced Friday. Farst, 56, who leads the hospital’s child maltreatment program and serves as chief of medical staff, was the first physician board-certified in child abuse pediatrics in Arkansas. She will move into her new role during the coming year, the hospital said in a news release. “Dr. Farst is exceptional at building partnerships and adept at navigating some of the most challenging systems to ensure children’s safety and well-being,” said Dr. Rick Barr, executive vice president and chief clinical officer of Arkansas Children’s Hospital, in a news release. “For the past 20 years, she has been the state’s leading advocate for the most vulnerable children, reducing trauma after trauma by building collaborations and partnerships that shine a light on the very dark subject of child abuse and neglect.” Farst is a professor of pediatrics and section chief of the Children at Risk program at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences College of Medicine. She has served two terms on the Child Abuse subboard of the American Board of Pediatrics. She received her medical degree from Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center and completed a residency in Internal Medicine and Pediatrics and a chief residency in Pediatrics at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. After spending three years in primary care practice in Northwest Arkansas, she completed a fellowship in child abuse pediatrics with the Mayerson Center for Safe and Healthy Children at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center in Ohio. Farst replaces Dr. Gregory Sharp, said Hilary DeMillo, media relations manager at Arkansas Children’s Hospital. Sharp had been named senior vice president and chief medical officer for Arkansas Children’s Hospital in December 2018. This story has been updated. It was originally published at 12:37 p.m. Friday, Aug. 18, under the headline "Children’s Hospital names new chief medical officer." Copyright © 2024, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.