Synergy Life Science, Inc. has developed Nebi: a pocket-sized and fully battery-operated nebulizer for use in a variety of applications. It has long been accepted that the lungs are one of the most effective pathways into the human body, as evidenced by the popularity of nebulizers for the delivery of medicines and therapeutics and the rise of vapes and electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation or recreational purposes. Evidence now definitively shows that vapes and e-cigarettes — often touted as healthy alternatives to traditional smoking — are extremely harmful to the lungs. The heated oils and inhaled vapors can build up deep in the lungs causing lasting damage, whether users are partaking in cannabis, nicotine, or even wellness blends. Nebulizers, which utilize water or saline to deliver medicines directly to the lungs in a harmless vapor without heat or combustion, have been approved for decades as a safe, effective method to provide fast, efficacious treatments for consumers of all ages. While the size, treatment duration, and power requirements of traditional nebulizers' have posed significant problems for consumers, Synergy has now solved that problem with Nebi. “Developing novel technologies and unique delivery methods for active ingredients have been cornerstones of my career,” stated Synergy CEO and co-founder Chris Gerlach. “I couldn’t be more excited to introduce the trailblazing technology behind the Nebi handheld nebulizer. Combined with our patented ingredients, I firmly believe this product has the potential to change industries and lives.” Nebi is powered by a rechargeable battery and is small enough to fit into a pocket or purse, allowing easy access to nebulizer therapies on the go. Nebi operates with interchangeable, replaceable cartridges designed for various applications, conditions and indications by consistently delivering beneficial medicines and treatments in the form of safe, cool water vapor. This handheld nebulizer will initially focus on cannabis, wellness, and smoking cessation therapies and has tremendous potential to address many treatment possibilities across multiple industries. Nebi is expected to launch in spring 2023. The most successful cannabis business event in the world, the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, returns to Miami for its 16th edition. This is the place where DEALS GET DONE, where money is raised, M&A starts, and companies meet investors and key partners. Join us at the Fontainebleau Miami Beach Hotel in Florida on April 11-12. Don’t miss out. Secure your tickets now. Prices will surge very soon. Photo by Jeff W on Unsplash  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Click on the image for more info. Want to understand what this means for the future of the industry?  Hear directly for top executives, investors and policymakers at the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, coming to Chicago this Oct. 8-9.  Get your tickets now before prices surge by following this link.