    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Expert Reviewed
									 Medical alert systems are important devices designed to assist in an emergency event, connecting users to a dispatcher who can send for assistance. They can provide reassurance to people who are medically vulnerable and living alone, as well as their loved ones. Read on to discover the best medical alert systems available in 2024 based on a Forbes Health analysis, as well as first-person insights from our experiences testing the products. The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about medical alert systems that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our medical alert systems methodology for the rankings below. Bay Alarm Medical’s SOS All-In-One with Fall Detection system works on a 4G LTE network, which provides the higher bandwidth needed for more accurate location tracking and better coverage nationwide. The system includes an automatic fall detection button, a neck lanyard, a wearable button with a magnetic attachment and a wristband. The wearable button is lightweight and compact enough to fit comfortably on a keychain, or as a bracelet or necklace.  “I tested the mobile device/base unit by pressing the help button. In about 25 seconds, a dispatcher spoke to me through the two-way speaker—his voice was loud and clear. He confirmed my name and address and asked if I needed help. I told him I was testing the device and he confirmed that I did not need help. When I assured him I was fine, he politely signed off.” “I also tested the small round wearable device by snapping it onto the lanyard, placing it around my neck like a necklace and pressing the help button while standing across the living room within the 30-foot range of the SOS mobile device/base unit. After 20 seconds, a dispatcher spoke loudly through the two-way speaker, confirming my name and address and asking if I needed assistance. After assuring her that I was testing the device, she pleasantly said goodbye and ended the call.” Read our full Bay Alarm SOS All-in-One Medical Alert System review  to learn more about our experience. This GetSafe medical alert system features a base device and one wall button, making it best for smaller living spaces. The system’s two-way, voice-activated wall button provides additional security in the event of an emergency. GetSafe also offers 24/7 live monitoring to enhance peace of mind and provides around-the-clock assistance. “My experience testing the GetSafe Starter was pretty bumpy. My attempts to test the system initially resulted in a lengthy call with tech support to figure out why my control panel was not working properly. I would push the button, and instead of an emergency responder speaking to me through the unit’s speaker as it’s supposed to, my cell phone was called a few minutes later with a representative telling me they could not reach me on the unit. I had to work with a tech support representative to get the unit working and troubleshoot my Wi-Fi connection, which we eventually accomplished.” Read our full GetSafe Starter review  to learn more about our experience. Bay Alarm Medical’s SOS Home medical alert system compares well with competitors with its reasonable pricing, 30-day trial period and straightforward return and cancellation policies. The system includes a base unit, wearable buttons that are interchangeable as a bracelet or necklace and a “vial of life,” a plastic coated information sheet containing the user’s medical information for emergency response teams. A magnetic strip is also attached to the sheet, making it easy to place on a person’s fridge for emergency access.  “I was impressed by the effectiveness of this device—the speed at which I was connected to a dispatcher and the clear communication that came from the two-way speaker—and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who needs the sense of security it can provide. The fall detection pendant was less effective because it didn’t work each time I tested it, so I’m not sure it’s worth the extra cost. I did appreciate that the Bay Alarm SOS Home medical device system is easy to set up and simple to use.” Read our full Bay Alarm SOS Home System review  to learn more about our experience. LifeFone’s At-Home Cellular medical alert system boasts an impressive range of use, connecting users with emergency assistance via its AT&T cellular coverage. This system differs from others on this list by including a room temperature sensor (which notifies users when the temperature goes above or below their customized settings)and an emergency care plan that encompasses phone, call  and/or text notifications. What’s more, the company offers affordable fall detection at an additional $5 per month, as well as an optional vanity pendant for an additional cost. “I put my base unit in the kitchen, and because the speaker is so loud, I could hear someone speaking when I was standing in the living room and dining room, both off the kitchen area. The one big issue I have with this base unit system, however, is that if you happen to fall in a room that isn’t where the base unit is located, I’m not sure how well the person on the other end will be able to hear you.” Read our full LifeFone At-Home Cellular System review  to learn more about our experience. For those looking for a straightforward medical alert system they can take on the go, the MobileHelp Solo system is worth considering. It includes a mobile device pendant with GPS capabilities and a two-way speaker that connects to the MobileHelp emergency response center via a large emergency help button, plus a wearable wrist or pendant help button. The system connects to emergency services via AT&T’s coverage network when the user presses the button on either device. A lockbox is included with this purchase, and an automatic fall detection pendant is available for an additional cost.  “During the test call, a recording came across the mobile device speaker, announcing, ‘Test call sent to emergency response center,’ three times. The recording wasn’t very loud and had a lot of static. However, the test call went off without a hitch, and I was notified that the test had been completed successfully.” Learn more about our experience in our comprehensive MobileHelp Solo review. LifeFone claims its on-the-go pendant is the smallest, lightest and most advanced mobile medical alert device on the market. Plus, it’s water resistant and can be worn in the rain and shower for continuous protection. This system is powered by either Verizon or AT&T 4G LTE cellular service, depending on LifeFone’s service provider in the user’s area. “The house I was staying at while testing my VIPx is a notorious black hole for cell service (it’s difficult to make or receive outgoing calls), so I decided to press my button in two areas I know routinely drop calls. The first place I tested was a hallway, and after I pressed the button, the call to the service center failed. Not ideal. When I walked into the living room—another tough spot—it took about 10 seconds after pressing the button for my call to connect. Once it finally did, the representative was kind and professional, verifying my name and asking twice to make sure I was just testing the device.” “When I took my VIPx on a walk around the neighborhood, which is surrounded by trees and woods, I pressed the button in a particularly wooded area. The connection was immediate, but instead of getting a person, I got an automated voice that asked me if I needed help. When I said I was just testing, it asked me again just to make sure and then hung up. I’m not sure why I got a person once and an automated voice the second time, but both connections were quick.” Explore our full LifeFone VIPx review  to learn more about our experience. Similar to its mobile-friendly counterpart, the MobileHelp Classic is a straightforward medical alert system featuring an impressive in-home range of use and a reasonable monthly monitoring rate with no equipment or activation fees. The wearable button can be worn as a wristband or lanyard, and fall detection can be added to the system for an additional cost.  “I live in a 1,300-square foot house, which is within the 1,400-foot range MobileHelp Classic has between the base unit and wearable help button, according to the company. I wanted to test how easy it was to hear the base unit messages from different areas in my home. With the doors to all rooms open, I could hear the base unit message that a call was in progress from the furthest point away from the device when I pressed the help button. However, when I closed the door to my office (which is maybe 300 feet away but up a flight of stairs) and turned on a fan, I could barely hear the message, even at the loudest volume.” Read our full MobileHelp Classic review  to learn more about our experience. The Medical Care Alert HOME Medical Alert System can be a helpful option for those looking for a straightforward in-home medical alert system that operates via landline. (Users who opt for cellular connection instead are required to pay an extra $5 per month). With a 1,000-foot range of use and a shower-safe button that can be worn as a lanyard or on the wrist, this system is both simple and easy to use with a reasonably priced monitoring service. “In my experience, the 1,000-foot range from button to console is accurate. I tested each button in every room of my 650-square-foot apartment, in my hallway and on a different floor. Every test reached the home console, and I could even hear the system working from a different floor because of the high volume of the base console.” “Those with hearing loss may find the base console’s volume beneficial. However, individuals in community living situations or who don’t experience hearing loss may not feel the same, especially considering the console’s volume isn’t adjustable.” Read our Medical Care Alert HOME review  to learn more about our experience. Aloe Care’s Health Essentials Plus medical alert system costs significantly more than others on this list, but its extra bells and whistles may warrant the steep price tag for some. It features air quality and temperature sensors, voice activation, motion, and fall detection. What’s more, its accompanying app is designed to provide family members, loved ones and health care professionals with the ultimate peace of mind, giving approved individuals access to the system user’s location and status.  “My initial call to test the Aloe Care Essentials Plus Smart Hub resulted in five rings before a representative picked up. This felt excessive, as I thought the call would be answered quicker. The representative was polite, and when I told her I was just testing the system, she confirmed my home address and that I didn’t need any help before saying goodbye and hanging up.” “I tested the wearable button that connects to the Smart Hub from the furthest places in my home, including with bedroom and closet doors shut. It picked up every time and the voice from the Smart Hub was loud enough to hear even from upstairs in the furthest bedroom of my home.” Read our full Aloe Care Essentials Plus review  to learn more about our experience. This mobile-friendly medical alert system was designed for active adults who spend lots of time away from home, which can help reassure family members when their loved one is out and about. This mobile system features Medical Care Alert’s AutoFall technology, which alerts emergency response operators after detecting a fall. What’s more, the water-resistant pendant helps detect falls in the shower. Its location services are powered by either AT&T or Verizon 4G LTE cellular service, as well as Wi-Fi and GPS technology. “I tested the button both inside and outside. Upon pressing and holding the button for about two seconds, I heard the ‘placing an emergency call now’ alert and was connected with an operator in under 30 seconds. The operator confirmed my name and knew my location. Every representative I spoke with was kind and attentive, ensuring no one in my vicinity was in danger. While walking outside, I tested the RemoteCare 24/7 mobile app. The app detected my location at every point along the way, even deep into a public park in an urban setting. The device also maintained a strong GPS connection along my route.” Read our Medical Care Alert HOME & AWAY Ultra GPS review  to learn more about our experience. To determine the best medical alert systems ranking, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 70 products across approximately 20 companies, with each product’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including its range of use, ability to detect falls automatically, real-time connectivity to an emergency response person and cost. Medical alert systems for home use and mobile-friendly medical alert systems were evaluated slightly differently based on their distinct use cases.  Read more about our medical alert systems review methodology. A medical alert system, also known as a personal emergency response system (PERS) or a medical emergency response system, enables a person to connect to medical help quickly in the event of a health emergency. Most systems include a transmitter device, an emergency call center and a console that uses landline telephones, cellular networks and/or GPS to connect the transmitter with the monitoring center. Transmitter devices are used by the person in need of medical assistance and are often wearable pendants, necklaces, bracelets or smartwatches that feature an easily accessible emergency button and a speaker for quick connection to a trained medical response operator. If you have a medical concern or emergency, press the help button on your medical alert system. The device sends a signal to your medical alert operator, connecting you with an emergency response expert at the call center. Often, the operator will connect you with the family member, caregiver or friend listed in your contact information, notifying them that you need help. In an emergency, they help dispatch an ambulance, the police or the local fire department to your home. Older adults are the largest population of medical alert system users. According to a Forbes Health survey conducted by OnePoll, participants who are at least 75 years old are more likely to use a medical alert system (15%) than participants ages 70 to 74 (8%) and those ages 65 to 69 (7%). Those living alone are slightly more likely to use a medical alert system (10%) compared to individuals living with someone (7%). Medical alert systems are also used by individuals who are frail and have an increased risk of falling. Falls contribute to a substantial portion of older adult injuries. Over 30% of people over the age of 65 fall every year, and nearly half of this group experiences recurrent falls. Meanwhile, about 40% of adults at least 85 years old fall annually, and 10% of these falls result in serious injuries ranging from hip fractures to traumatic brain injuries. A medical alert system cannot prevent a fall or subsequent injury, but it can help the person access emergency services for much quicker assistance. Despite survey results indicating that 34% of respondents worry about falling or needing medical attention while aging in place, only 9% of participants use a medical alert system. Falls aside, medical alert systems can support safe aging in place with features like medication reminders, activity monitoring that checks in on the user every 12 hours or so and live assistance for when the user experiences any other pressing medical concerns. The most popular reason for older adults wanting to age in place is to maintain their independence (86%), according to our survey. Medical alert systems are also an appropriate solution for anyone—regardless of their age—who is at risk of experiencing a medical emergency and wants reassurance that they can easily access help. Safety Simplified, Always Connected Experience unmatched peace of mind with Bay Alarm's SOS All-In-One device, offering built-in help features, caregiver tracking, and customizable options for personalized safety. On Bay Alarm's Website In-home medical alert systems typically feature two components: After our reviewer tested the Medical Care Alert system (above), she noted the device is easy to use and the response time is quick. Mobile medical alert systems use cellular service and GPS technology to help the user connect with the call center both inside and outside. Most of these units are all-in-one devices of varying sizes and efficiency. Typically, the more compact the device or the more features it offers, the shorter its battery life, making frequent charging important. Our reviewer noted that the Medical Care Alert HOME & AWAY ULTRA GPS device connected her to a dispatcher within 30 seconds of pressing the button—and that the dispatcher knew her location. To get the most protective value from a medical alert system, opt for one that offers live 24/7 monitoring. That way, no matter when you have a medical concern and press your emergency button for help, you’ll always be connected with a live emergency response agent. Typically for an additional monthly fee, medical alert systems offer automatic fall detection. As its name suggests, this feature automatically notifies the call center when your wearable device senses—using technology like accelerometers and processors—that you had a fall and don’t move for a period of time after the fall. It’s designed to help in the event of a serious fall that renders the user unconscious, unable to press their help button manually or unable to communicate verbally with the emergency response expert at the call monitoring center. Many medical alert systems allow you to purchase additional wall buttons for the higher-risk areas of your home, such as the bathroom, kitchen and stairwells. Just like a wearable pendant, when pressed they send a signal to the base station, which communicates with the call center. Wall buttons are useful for people who forget to wear or dislike wearing their devices. Some medical alert system makers encourage you to add a lockbox to your device purchase. It’s intended to hold an extra key for emergency responders so they don’t have to break down a locked door to come assist in an emergency event. The location and access of your lockbox is often noted in your profile with the medical alert system, so the call center employee can share those details with emergency responders when necessary. Our reviewer found the GetSafe Starter medical alert system (above) cost-effective, but a bit confusing to set up. If you want to be able to keep the wearable component of your medical alert system on your person or nearby while bathing or showering, it’s important for the device to hold up well to water and humidity. Medical alert systems that offer live location tracking via GPS may be helpful for active seniors and those with memory loss. These systems are meant to alert family members directly and quickly of their loved one’s locations. Similar to automatic fall detection, this feature tracks the user’s movement. It notifies family members and friends if their loved one hasn’t shown signs of movement for an extended period. Some medical alert systems offer medication reminders. These scheduled notifications can help keep aging adults compliant with the care plan prescribed by their health care professionals. Monitoring services for a medical alert system can cost as low as $14.95 per month and as much as $61.95 per month. These prices don’t necessarily include the initial cost of equipment—some companies charge a one-time fee for the system devices. Some medical alert system providers also charge a one-time connection or installation fee at the time of setup, which can vary significantly. Add-on features, such as automatic fall detection, extra wall buttons, lockboxes and app access, typically come with additional charges, too. More affordable options typically include the most basic medical alert system equipment and connectivity. Meanwhile, the more you spend, the more features and functionality you get. Unfortunately, some medical alert system providers have less-than-transparent pricing structures. For instance, they may not lock in a subscription price when you sign up, ultimately raising rates without notice after a year of service. Others might not clearly disclose connection or activation fees until you reach the final steps of purchasing a system and enrolling in a monitoring subscription service. Your ability to get a free medical alert system largely depends on your financial circumstances and insurance coverage. Those who are eligible for Medicaid, for example, are often eligible for other waiver programs that can help cover the costs associated with medical alert systems. Veterans often have access to benefits that make medical alert systems more affordable as well. And AARP members can save 15% on select medical alert services, as well as receive free shipping and waived activation fees. Only a select few private insurance providers pay for medical alert systems. But in some cases, the devices can be considered tax deductible if they’re deemed “medically necessary equipment” and prescribed by a doctor. Typically, traditional Medicare (Medicare Part B) doesn’t cover the purchasing or monthly subscription costs of medical alert systems because they are not usually deemed “medically necessary” durable medical equipment (DME). Meanwhile, some Medicare Advantage plans (Medicare Part C), which are offered through private insurance companies, may provide partial or full coverage of medical alert systems. If you’re insured by a Medicare Advantage plan, ask your provider about their coverage policies regarding medical alert systems. According to a recent Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll, respondents value many of the features offered by modern-day medical alert system providers. However, three in particular stand out among the rest: features like activity monitoring and medication reminders (49%), GPS or cellular connectivity for 24/7 assistance (44%) and extras like voice-activated wall buttons and lock boxes (43%). When we tested the medical alert systems on our ranking, we valued devices that had a simple setup process and speedy response times when the help button was pressed. Additionally, we found that for many of these medical alert devices, the automatic fall detection was inaccurate. Therefore, we were particularly pleased with devices with fall detection technology that worked well.  The right medical alert system depends on you or your loved one’s activity levels and preferences. For instance, someone who spends a significant amount of time away from home or is prone to wander will likely benefit from a mobile medical alert system. But someone who rarely leaves their house might be well served by an in-home system that covers the square footage of their living area. Think about how you or the person you’re shopping for typically spends time and focus on medical alert systems specifically designed for those lifestyle factors. Most medical alert systems can be purchased directly from manufacturers via their websites. You can also call their customer service lines to speak with company representatives directly and place your order over the phone. If you prefer shopping in person, retailers like Walmart and Best Buy sell medical alert systems, as well as pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens. Forbes Health Lead Editor Jessica DiGiacinto contributed to this article. Based on cost, range of use, automatic fall detection technology, real-time emergency connectivity and more, our top picks for the best medical alert systems include Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One with Fall Detection and GetSafe Medical Alert Starter. However, the best medical alert system for you depends on your budget, lifestyle factors, personal preferences and more. According to the results of a Forbes Health survey, many older adults find medical alert systems to be worth the investment. Of those who use a medical alert system for themselves or the adult they care for, 86% say the device has saved them (or the person they care for) from an incident. Most medical alert systems require a landline connection, a Wi-Fi connection, a cellular connection or a combination thereof to maintain feedback with the company’s emergency monitoring center as the user moves through their daily life. Home-based devices can use any combination of those three connections while mobile-friendly options most frequently rely on cellular connectivity and GPS technology. As you explore your medical alert system options, review their specific connectivity requirements to make sure they’re a good fit for you and your lifestyle. Yes, some medical alert systems ask users to provide an emergency contact list of loved ones during initial system setup. In the event that they press their emergency call button, the representative at the monitoring center responds to the user in distress and notifies those listed on their emergency contact list that their loved one called for help. Medical Care Alert is a good example of one of these systems. AARP (the American Association of Retired Persons) doesn’t recommend specific medical alert system products, but rather encourages people to consider their or their loved one’s specific needs and abilities in determining which one would be most suitable. With that said, AARP members can save 15% on medical alert systems from Philips Lifeline, as well as receive free shipping and waived activation charges for their products. Each medical alert system connects with a call center, many of which are active 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Most companies staff these call centers with emergency response experts, who are primarily responsible for answering all incoming alert calls from these systems. The amount of time it takes to connect with a call center employee once pressing the emergency button on your system can vary. Some systems have an average wait time of less than 30 seconds while others can take nearly three times as long, according to third-party testing from Consumers’ Checkbook. Once you select a medical alert system, test it a few times. These calls will give you the best sense of what to expect from the system in your area. Typically, an unmonitored medical alert system requires a landline connection as opposed to cellular service. When the wearer presses the emergency button, the system either dials 911 directly or a preset personal contact via that landline connection. When a person calls 911 from a landline, the call center can immediately see their home location, which can expedite the emergency dispatch, a clear benefit to the person using the medical alert system. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Valerie is a seasoned writer and editor who has spent her career creating content in the parenting and women's wellness spaces. Before joining Forbes Health, Valerie was the trending news editor at Scary Mommy. When she's not helping women and families live their best and healthiest lives, she's spending time with her family, walking her dogs, reading or exercising.
			 
				Patricia C. Heyn is the founding director of the Center for Optimal Aging at Marymount University and a clinical associate professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation at the University of Colorado School of Medicine. She also serves as the deputy director of the Cochrane US Network University of Colorado Affiliated Center. 

She has been involved in gerontological and rehabilitation research for more than 22 years. Heyn has a doctoral degree in applied exercise physiology and gerontology, followed by two post-doctoral fellowships in 1) neurologic and cognitive rehabilitation and 2) geriatric medicine research supported by the National Institute on Aging (NIA) from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The goal of her research is to improve the person’s healthspan, well-being, and everyday function by preventing the development of chronic diseases with lifestyle behavior interventions and applying early detection approaches that target key risk factors associated with Alzheimer’s disease and cardiovascular disease. Her investigations include healthy aging,  health disparities, aging with a disability and investigating factors that drive premature aging models. Heyn also serves as a consultant for several national and international health organizations.

			