The Montreal Canadiens have made it official: They have acquired forward Patrik Laine from the Columbus Blue Jackets and a 2026 2nd-round pick for Jordan Harris.    Free Newsletters   On Facebook   On Twitter   On Flipboard   On YouTube It's always fun to look back after a big trade and see which reporters and outlets accurately predicted the move, and the Patrik Laine saga is no different.  Reports spilled out near 4 p.m. Monday that the Montreal Canadiens were the team that won the Patrik Laine sweepstakes. The Canadiens trade not only includes Laine, but the Columbus Blue Jackets also included a second-round pick in exchange for young Canadiens defenseman Jordan Harris.  The Montreal Canadiens apparently think they can fix Patrik Laine. Kent Hughes has made a big swing to bolster his team. On Monday, the Montreal Canadiens acquired forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL Draft from the Columbus Blue Jackets.  Montreal has been on the lookout for top-six scoring help. It's slowly added to a rebuilding group over the past few summers. This is the biggest swing that general manager Kent Hughes has taken, though, picking up a more established yet expensive sniper. When you look at the Habs’ payroll, one thing is easy to recognize. There’s no forward making more money than Nick Suzuki. In fact… There’s no forward (or any other player) making more money than Nick Suzuki before Patrik Laine arrived in Montreal.  The Montreal Canadiens are always looking to improve their available talent at various positions. From the very get-go, general manager Kent Hughes identified  Francis Bouillon is still part of the great Montreal Canadiens team. He works with the organization’s youngsters, playing an important role in the development of up-and-coming players.  As the NHL offseason continues, each team’s direction, plans, and goals for the coming season have become clear. For the Montreal Canadiens, the 2024-25 season will take the next step of the rebuild.  A few years ago, Marc Bergevin tried to get Sebastian Aho from the Hurricanes. It didn’t work out. We wondered if the Hurricanes would retaliate (they did with Jesperi Kotkaniemi) and for a while, we thought the Habs GM should keep an eye on his young players.  As you know, Juraj Slafkovsky was keen to represent his country at Slovakia’s Olympic hockey qualifiers. The games will take place in a few days’ time, starting on August 29.  It’s hard to call a 50th win a huge milestone. However, Montreal Canadiens goalie Samuel Montembeault just missed out last season, standing at No. 49 heading into 2024-25.  Yaroslav Askarov’s name has been in the trade rumour mill for a few summers now. This summer, however, things are looking a little more serious, as the Preds have given Juuse Saros an eight-year contract.  We’re already halfway through our top-15 list of the Habs’ most promising prospects! We’ll start today by adding to last week’s line-up of defensemen (Barron, Mailloux and Xhekaj), Sweden’s Adam Engstrom, who, like the latter, will be fighting for a place in the top-4.  The story of the Xhekaj family has truly touched the entire city of Montreal, as well as every single fan of the Montreal Canadiens. From the moment Arber Xhekaj arrived in town, the inspiring story of the Xhekaj family has truly touched everyone.  With just two players left in our Montreal Canadiens summer prospect rankings, we have finally reached one of the most exciting players to join the organization in the last few decades, defenceman Lane Hutson.  An end of one type or another is near for Montreal Canadiens defenseman Mike Matheson. Some say that should be regarding his Habs tenure in that they should deal the 30-year-old when his stock is as high as it is, after he hit a career-high 11 goals and 51 assists (62 points).  Hope springs eternal in the summer for NHL fans who last watched their team play in early April. Could 2024-25 be the season that one of the non-playoff teams from 2023-24 make the postseason?  In many people’s eyes, Cole Caufield had a down year this past season. Despite having career highs in goals (28), assists (37), and points (65). The goal production didn’t even live up to the high expectations placed on him following a year that saw him on a near 50-goal pace.  The Montreal Canadiens have been in a bit of a rebuild in recent years, despite a trip to the Stanley Cup Final in 2021, and general manager Kent Hughes believes the young group of players will come together to have a promising season, especially with Kirby Dach returning from a season-ending knee injury that he suffered early on last year.  Now, it’s Juraj Slafkovsky, the player the Canadiens drafted with the No. 1 overall pick after that last-place season, who could give them a fighting chance to compete. After getting drafted in the fifth round, Montreal Canadiens prospective goaltender Mikus Vecvanags refused to report to the team, leaving the QMJHL for the BCHL.  The Sharks’ AHL affiliate, the San Jose Barracuda, has signed UFA center Colin White to a one-year contract, according to a team press release. White, a former first-round pick of the Senators who was bought out by Ottawa in 2022, signed a two-way deal with the Penguins last October after attending training camp on a PTO.  NHL insider Mark Madden of 105.9 The X and TribLive reported that the Pittsburgh Penguins had discussions about trading veteran defenseman Kris Letang to the Montreal Canadiens. Get the latest news and rumors, customized to your favorite sports and teams. Emailed daily. Always free!