















 Hollywood Life

 Latest Hollywood Celebrity & Entertainment News If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, we may receive an affiliate commission. Learn more about our policies and reviews. You may have more jewelry than you know what to do with. If your nightstand, dresser drawers, or tabletops seem to be overflowing with jewelry and accessories, it may be time to invest in a stylish organizer. Below are some of our favorite freestanding jewelry armoires that you may not even know existed. These cabinets are one of the best ways to help organize your jewelry and keep it safe all while taking up minimal room. We have even included an option that can be mounted on a wall or door. Choose from a variety of stylish and elegant wood finishes, or a modern, mirror-finished one that will enhance any room. These armoires also have lock and key components to keep your baubles safe and ample drawers, hooks, and ring rolls ensure your necklaces remain untangled and your rings are easy to find at a moment’s notice. Premier Jewelry Armoire in Detail This jewelry armoire is another statement storage piece that makes storing all valuable and costume jewelry a special experience. This armoire comes with eight pull-out drawers lined with anti-tarnish felt, divided compartments, ring storage, and two side panel doors with 20 necklace hoops in each. With premium wood construction and a rich finish, this jewelry storage will give your house the look and feel of a vintage family heirloom. This jewelry storage and organizer cabinet has ample storage space with 48 necklace hooks, two cubbies, six lined shelves, and a bracelet rod for ring and earring storage. This particular armoire has a slightly more unique design as it has a sturdy base that can be tilted to three different angles to give you the best head-to-toe view of your entire outfit. A lockable door and lined velvet interior also work to completely protect and care for your jewelry. This stylish armoire has a sleek design that will easily blend into any closet or bedroom and has ample room for a larger jewelry collection. It comes complete with a locking top compartment and key, is fully lined with anti-tarnish felt, and has seven pull-out drawers with divided compartments, necklace hooks, open storage, and a vanity mirror. This locking jewelry armoire gives you the benefits of a sleek jewelry cabinet and mirror-in-one that is ready to hang and requires no assembly. This cabinet has a large storage capacity to fit a large number of rings along with hooks for necklaces and bracelets and six rows of lined shelves allow you to store other precious accessories or cosmetics. This silver armoire provides a more modern aesthetic to any space with its mirrored exterior that is spacious enough to fit all of your jewelry and precious accessory pieces. The top opens up to reveal a mirror, it comes with three smaller drawers and four larger ones that can accommodate a large jewelry and accessory collection. Another unique armoire option is this one that contains eight automatic-on LED lights that provide the jewelry a beautiful glow while enabling you to easily pick out your look for the day. This armoire has six drawers, earring holes, necklace hooks, a scarf rod, and plenty of ring slots to keep everything safe and organized. Lastly, with a beveled edge, the full-length mirror makes it easy to see your entire outfit when you are finished getting ready. This unique jewelry storage cabinet comes in a universal mixed gray color with different tones throughout that will match almost all room and decor styles. This is a freestanding durable armoire with solid wood legs, an embedded mirror under the top lid, five drawers, and two side doors that provide ample jewelry storage space. If you own a lot of jewelry, you already know how important it is to organize it properly. Your necklaces can get cluttered and you can lose small items like rings and earrings if you do not store them properly. Our team has formulated this guide to help you learn how to organize your jewelry in an armoire so that it stays tangle-free and you can find every piece easily. Read on to find out how to choose the top jewelry armoires in 2024. If you have not heard of this term before, a jewelry armoire is simply any piece of furniture that is designed to store and organize your jewelry. They usually have a number of drawers and cabinets with separate compartments to allow you to organize all kinds of jewelry. Some even have separate hooks to hang your necklaces and chains so they do not become tangled. They are available in a wide variety of sizes and styles, so you can choose one according to the amount of jewelry you have and the available space in your home. With the wide variety available in the market, you can choose one that suits your specific needs. For example, you can get one that has a mirror if you have the space and do not have a dresser nearby. Jewelry armoires come in many different types, and you can pick one depending on your preferences and needs. We have mentioned a few main types of armoires that are readily available in the market. Probably the safest option is to invest in a standing armoire because it can be placed on the floor or on top of a desk. They do not require any extra mounting and come in both small and large sizes. They are easy to move around and are usually ideal to place in an empty corner of your bedroom near the dresser. This is because they usually do not come with a mirror. Cheval armoires are ideal for those who have less space but tons of jewelry to organize. Such armoires combine both full-length mirrors and drawers and hooks for your jewelry. The full-length mirror is in the form of a door, and opening it reveals an organizing unit for your jewelry. Cheval armoires are usually tall, but they take up very little floor space, so they can be placed in corners as well. Wall-mounted jewelry armoires save up even more space because they do not take up any floor space at all. You can simply mount them on a wall as you would mount a mirror. The mirror works like a door, just like in a cheval armoire. Also, since every item will be at eye level, you can comfortably pick your jewelry without having to stoop over. If you hate mounting items on your walls or you live in a rented apartment and the owner does not allow you to drill holes, over-the-door armoires are for you. They can be easily mounted on a door, and you can enjoy all the benefits of a wall-mounted jewelry armoire. If you own a lot of expensive jewelry, it is natural to get worried about its safety, especially if you are out of the house for most of the day. A jewelry armoire cannot replace a safe, but you can purchase one with a lock so that your intricate items can stay safe. If you have children at home, it is absolutely essential to own an armoire that can be locked. Kids love to play around with mirrors, and if they find jewelry inside, you risk losing or damaging expensive pieces. Therefore, the security of your jewelry armoire should be your top priority. It is not worth buying a beautiful antique piece that cannot be locked, because what will you do with the armoire if there is no jewelry left to organize. Jewelry armoires come in a range of different price ranges. As the features and quality get better, the price increases. So, it is important to keep your budget in mind when you are browsing for one. Since there are so many brands manufacturing jewelry armoires, you will find one in your range, so do not worry. The overall prices of most jewelry armoires range between $100 and $400. Those that are crafted with expensive, good quality wood, come with a mirror, are bigger in size, and have a secure lock are priced higher than those which do not have these features. The brand of the armoire also impacts the price. If the brand is providing good customer service and after-sales support including return and refund policies, they will charge higher. To make sure you get a good bargain, do not forget to check the clearance section of different brands. You may be able to save a ton of money if the item you buy has a clearance sale. Other than organizing jewelry, an armoire can serve several purposes. One of these is as an organizing cabinet for small items like washers, screws, and beads. It can be used to store and organize small things that can easily get lost, so you can practically store anything in it. Purchasing a jewelry armoire is just the first step in organizing your jewelry. You will need to store every piece properly and designate specific spaces for each. And the most important part, place every item back from where you took it after a night out, no matter how tired you are. If you fail to do this, the entire purpose of the armoire will be destroyed. The interior of jewelry armoires should be made from all-natural fabrics like silk, cotton, and wool. The exterior of most armoires is made from wood, which is ideal because it will last a long time and keeps your jewelry safe. Follow Us: About Us Legal News Connect