Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 The healthcare facilities operator announced mixed quarterly results. Here's what investors need to know. Shares of HCA Healthcare (HCA 0.12%) fell as much as 10.4% early Tuesday, then settled to trade down 5% as of 11:00 a.m. EDT after the healthcare facilities operator announced lower-than-anticipated quarterly earnings. The company also narrowed its full-year revenue and earnings guidance ranges. For its third quarter of 2023, revenue grew 8.3% year over year to $16.21 billion, slightly above Wall Street's consensus estimates for revenue of $15.82 billion. On the bottom line, however, that translated to net income of $1.079 billion, or $3.91 per share, attributable to HCA shareholders. That's roughly flat from the same year-ago period and below estimates for earnings of $3.97 per share. HCA CEO Sam Hazen credited the company's revenue growth to strong demand for its services, insisting that "most aspects of [the] business were positive." At the same time, he also noted HCA's consolidated results were hurt by a weaker-than-expected performance from its physician staffing joint venture with Valesco. Looking ahead to the rest of 2023, HCA narrowed its outlook to call for revenue of $63.5 billion to $64.5 billion (compared to its previous range of $63.25 billion to $64.75 billion) and earnings per share of $17.80 to $18.50 (narrowed from $17.70 to $18.90 per share). HCA also slightly reduced the high end of its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) guidance to a range of $12.3 billion to $12.6 billion (from a prior range of $12.3 billion to $12.8 billion). While HCA certainly isn't a broken business, this mixed quarterly update obviously left investors underwhelmed. With shares still up around 10% over the past year as of this writing, the leading healthcare stock is simply responding in kind.  Steve Symington has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends HCA Healthcare. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.