
Skip to Content
 All exchange students starting a Fall 2024 program must arrive in time to attend the required new exchange student sessions.   The Exchange Student Meeting & Immigration Essentials Session will be held Monday, August 19, 2024 (time and location to be announced in the future). Plan on arriving in Boulder no later than August 18, 2024. 
	  Your IdentiKey serves as your secure entry point for online services and information you'll need now and later as a CU Boulder student. Activating your IdentiKey will give you immediate access to the scholarship application once you confirm your intent to enroll. You will need your IdentiKey for the mandatory Online Experience as well. Activate Your IdentiKey Note: It typically takes three to five business days after you activate your IdentiKey before you can access these services. All CU Boulder faculty, staff and students receive a CU Boulder email account. We will use this account to communicate with you, so please use your IdentiKey to log in and start using it daily. Log In to Your CU Boulder Email Please review the Off-Campus Housing & Neighborhood Relations website for helpful information, including the Ralphie’s List rental database, campus map, and the Off-Campus Living Orientation. You will not have access to apply for on-campus housing until April 13, 2024. You will also not be able to access Ralphie’s List rental database (using your IdentiKey) until April 13, 2024.  You may log in as a guest. Our campus has a culture of off-campus living for most students who have not recently graduated from high school. We share this with you because we have a very robust off campus community that surrounds our entire 2-mile campus and an office dedicated to supporting CU students as they seek off campus housing. We encourage you to contact Off Campus Housing and Neighborhood Relations to understand the off campus options and resources available to exchange students. Accommodations in Bear Creek Apartments are extremely limited. You must apply as soon as possible (after April 13, 2024 and being officially admitted to CU Boulder for the Fall 2024 term. Please review the Exchange Student Enrollment and Billing Handout for information about registering for classes at CU Boulder. Students in J1 status MUST be enrolled in in person courses. Please keep in mind that we cannot guarantee that you will get into a specific class while at CU, so you must discuss alternative classes with your home institution advisors before you arrive. Please review the international student pre-arrival information on our website along with the Exchange Student Checklist. All students attending CU Boulder are required to have health insurance every semester of their program. Students may elect coverage through an individual health insurance plan, through a family member or employer, or the university’s Student Gold Health Insurance Plan (SHIP). If you opt to purchase CU's Student Gold Health Insurance Plan, YOU MUST CONTACT studentinsurance@colorado.edu and request to be enrolled in the plan Exchange students are exempt from the requirement to submit proof of insurance and/or waiving insurance with Health Services to CU Boulder. Please disregard requests to WAIVE your insurance. However, you are required to submit proof of insurance after you arrive in Boulder. You are required to submit proof of insurance coverage to ISSS along with the other required information and documents after arriving in the U.S. You may provide proof of personal insurance if it meets the following requirements:   Health Insurance Requirement           New Student Immunizations & Requirements Your Buff OneCard serves as your campus identification. Please submit your Buff OneCard photo. Depending on your student status and choices, it may also: Upload Your Buff OneCard Photo New international students at CU Boulder must complete the Immigration Check-In form, which is available through your MyISSS portal and is to be completed only after arriving in the U.S. The required International Exchange student orientation will take place the week before classes start.  Location:
	Center for Community, S355
	2249 Willard Loop Drive Mailing Address:
	International Student & Scholar Services
	University of Colorado Boulder
	123 UCB
	Boulder, CO 80309-0123   Tel: +1 (303) 492-8057
	Fax: +1 (303) 492-5185
isss@colorado.edu
sponsoredadvising@colorado.edu   University of Colorado Boulder© Regents of the University of Colorado
Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map