


June 25 (UPI) -- Russian regulators have blocked access to the VKontakte social network page for the Concord Group, the company owned by Wagner Group boss Yevgeny Prigozhin.
Roskomnadzor, the Russian federal agency responsible for controlling and censoring mass media, has blocked access to Prigozhin's company page after the mercenary boss led a short-lived rebellion against Russian leadership over the weekend.
Advertisement
When accessed by UPI, a notice displayed reads: This material was blocked at the request of Roskomnadzor on the basis of the decision of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation dated June 24, 2023 No. 27-31-2023/Treb431-23."
Prigozhin's press service has not posted any updates to its Telegram account since Saturday after the mercenary boss accepted a deal brokered by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.
Related
Russian diplomats meet with North Korea, China as Putin remains quiet after Wagner rebellion
Wagner fighters leave Lipetsk region as Chechens withdraw from Rostov-on-Don in Russia
Wagner Group troops turn back from Moscow; Prigozhin charges dropped
Russia's Ministry of Digital Development on Sunday recommended that journalists be given the day to cool off after covering the events of the weekend. The message was posted on the ministry's account on the VKontakte platform.
"Saturday was a very emotional and stressful day. Therefore, we recommend that even continuously operating IT companies, telecom operators and the media operating in regions that were at the epicenter of events yesterday, give those employees who are not involved in critical functions tomorrow a day off," the ministry said.
Advertisement
"Many employees of the Ministry of Digital Development spent the weekend at their workplace, so we also made this decision for our employees."
Last week, Roskomnadzor included 12 major website hosting providers in its list of companies subject to laws requiring them to open branches in Russia and register an account with the regulator for "operational interaction with authorities."
Those website hosting services include Amazon Web Services, GoDaddy, HostGator.com and Bluehost.
Russia on Sunday also blocked the account for OVD-Info, a Russian-based human rights project that tracks protest arrests and media blocks in the country, from accessing its account on the Odnoklassniki social network, the group said in a statement.
"OVD-Info does not know the reasons for the blocking, and we do not agree with it," the group said. "The project considers the incident an act of state censorship, which is designed to limit our work."
Roskomnadzor and the Russian government have significantly limited access to social media across Russia since the war in Ukraine began.
Last year, Russian regulators cut off access to Instagram for about 80 million users, arguing that the social media platform was allowing posts that provoke acts of violence against Russian troops in Ukraine.
Advertisement
Russia later completely banned Instagram and Facebook in the country.



Topics
Alexander LukashenkoAmazonWar in Ukraine






Latest Headlines







World News // 38 minutes ago
Chinese and Philippine ships collied amid territorial dispute of South China Sea
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ships of the Chinese and Philippine Coast Guards collided in the South China Sea on Monday as the two neighbors blame one another for the incident amid their protracted fight over the sovereignty of the disputed waters.










World News // 1 week ago
Ernesto heads to near Newfoundland as Category 1 hurricane
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Ernesto continued to gather strength late Sunday after regaining hurricane status, according to forecasters who warn it is setting it sights on Canada after striking Bermuda as a Category 1 storm.










World News // 5 hours ago
Circle K's Canadian owner seeks to buy rival Japanese-owned 7-Eleven
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Canadian owner of Circle K  is seeking to buy Japanese-owned 7-Eleven, a rival convenience store operation, in a "friendly" offer.










World News // 11 hours ago
One dead in superyacht wreck off Italian coast; British billionaire among six missing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn.










World News // 12 hours ago
Britain to detain suspects in police cells amid a prison overcrowding crisis after riots
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Britain implemented emergency measures to reduce pressure on prisons overflowing from people being sentenced for taking part in, or inciting, riots across England and Northern Ireland in late July and early August.










World News // 14 hours ago
Blinken: Gaza cease-fire talks 'best, maybe last' chance to achieve truce, free hostages
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Talks between Israel and Hamas could be the last chance to agree to a cease-fire in the Gaza conflict and free Israeli hostages, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said ahead of a meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu.










World News // 14 hours ago
U.N.: Record 280 aid workers killed during conflicts in 2023
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United Nations said 280 humanitarian aid workers were killed around the world in 2023, setting a new record for the number of people dying while aiding those in need.










World News // 17 hours ago
U.S., South Korea kick off joint military exercise amid outcry from North Korea
 SEOUL, Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The United States and South Korea on Monday kicked off a major joint military exercise meant to deter growing threats from North Korea, which denounced the drills as "offensive and provocative."










World News // 19 hours ago
Russia bans Clooney Foundation as 'undesirable'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Russian prosecutors on Monday designated the U.S.-based Clooney Foundation for Justice as "undesirable" on accusations that it works to discredit the Kremlin under the guise of a humanitarian organization.










World News // 20 hours ago
1 dead, 1 injured in Tel Aviv explosion; police investigating as potential terrorism
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- At least one person is dead and another injured after a bomb exploded Sunday night in Tel Aviv, according to authorities who believe the blast might be terrorism.






 June 25 (UPI) -- Russian regulators have blocked access to the VKontakte social network page for the Concord Group, the company owned by Wagner Group boss Yevgeny Prigozhin. Roskomnadzor, the Russian federal agency responsible for controlling and censoring mass media, has blocked access to Prigozhin's company page after the mercenary boss led a short-lived rebellion against Russian leadership over the weekend.
Advertisement When accessed by UPI, a notice displayed reads: This material was blocked at the request of Roskomnadzor on the basis of the decision of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation dated June 24, 2023 No. 27-31-2023/Treb431-23." Prigozhin's press service has not posted any updates to its Telegram account since Saturday after the mercenary boss accepted a deal brokered by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.
Related
Russian diplomats meet with North Korea, China as Putin remains quiet after Wagner rebellion
Wagner fighters leave Lipetsk region as Chechens withdraw from Rostov-on-Don in Russia
Wagner Group troops turn back from Moscow; Prigozhin charges dropped Russia's Ministry of Digital Development on Sunday recommended that journalists be given the day to cool off after covering the events of the weekend. The message was posted on the ministry's account on the VKontakte platform. "Saturday was a very emotional and stressful day. Therefore, we recommend that even continuously operating IT companies, telecom operators and the media operating in regions that were at the epicenter of events yesterday, give those employees who are not involved in critical functions tomorrow a day off," the ministry said.
Advertisement "Many employees of the Ministry of Digital Development spent the weekend at their workplace, so we also made this decision for our employees." Last week, Roskomnadzor included 12 major website hosting providers in its list of companies subject to laws requiring them to open branches in Russia and register an account with the regulator for "operational interaction with authorities." Those website hosting services include Amazon Web Services, GoDaddy, HostGator.com and Bluehost. Russia on Sunday also blocked the account for OVD-Info, a Russian-based human rights project that tracks protest arrests and media blocks in the country, from accessing its account on the Odnoklassniki social network, the group said in a statement. "OVD-Info does not know the reasons for the blocking, and we do not agree with it," the group said. "The project considers the incident an act of state censorship, which is designed to limit our work." Roskomnadzor and the Russian government have significantly limited access to social media across Russia since the war in Ukraine began. Last year, Russian regulators cut off access to Instagram for about 80 million users, arguing that the social media platform was allowing posts that provoke acts of violence against Russian troops in Ukraine.
Advertisement Russia later completely banned Instagram and Facebook in the country.