The logistics service is taking another step in becoming a leader in healthcare and pharmaceutical logistics. UPS Healthcare has announced the launch of UPS Pickup Point locations, a new reverse logistics service for health laboratory customers, across the UK, Germany, Italy, France, and Spain. You will receive an email shortly. Please check your inbox to download the Whitepaper. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData may share your information with Sharp Commercial and that your personal data will be used as described in their Privacy Policy Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The Pickup Points aim to combat the challenges that healthcare-related logistics present with the increase in new medicine development. Many healthcare facilities have samples coming in from various locations with different time schedules. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     UPS Pickup Points locations create a reverse logistics solution by providing collection confirmation and visibility of time-sensitive specimens. The service provides a more streamlined solution for healthcare companies by decreasing the number of collection sites and improving reliability, control, and the shipment of samples to a central lab. President of UPS Healthcare John Bolla said: “As we tackle global healthcare challenges and the needs of individual patients, every specimen counts. Connected to our global network, UPS Pickup Point locations provide our customers with unique new solutions to manage the reverse logistics of getting specimens to labs.” In September, UPS announced its plans to acquire MNX Global Logistics by the end of this year. MNX provides transportation solutions to customers in the biopharmaceutical and life sciences sectors. The company handles temperature-sensitive cell and gene therapies using same-day ground services and transports radiopharmaceuticals via air charters. Sectors such as cell and gene therapies rely on high-quality logistics due to the complex supply chains, as the therapy must be available as soon as the patient requires it. The rise in temperature-controlled products has increased the demand for cold-chain pharmaceutical logistics companies. You will receive an email shortly. Please check your inbox to download the Whitepaper. By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData may share your information with Sharp Commercial and that your personal data will be used as described in their Privacy Policy Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024