WASHINGTON , July 28, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- During a ceremony at the Casa Rosada in Buenos Aires on Thursday, July 27, Argentina became the 28th country to sign the Artemis Accords. NASA Administrator Bill Nelson participated in the signing ceremony for the agency, and Daniel Filmus, Minister of Science, Technology, and Innovation, signed on behalf of Argentina. 



 Argentine President Alberto Fernández and Marc Stanley, the U.S. Ambassador to Argentina, were also in attendance. The Artemis Accords establish a practical set of principles to guide space exploration cooperation among nations, including those participating in NASA's Artemis program. "As the United States and Argentina mark two centuries of diplomatic relations this year, we know our partnership over the next century will be deepened by discoveries made together in space," said Administrator Bill Nelson. "Along with our fellow Artemis Accords signatories, the United States and Argentina are setting a standard for 21st century exploration and use of space. As we explore together, we will explore peacefully, safely, and transparently." NASA, in coordination with the U.S. Department of State, established the Artemis Accords in 2020 together with seven other founding member nations. "We are convinced that the Artemis Accords constitute a contribution to the development of space activities with peaceful purposes at a global level and that they will increase international cooperation with Argentina," said Filmus. The Artemis Accords reinforce and implement key obligations in the 1967 Outer Space Treaty. They also reinforce the commitment by the United States and signatory nations to the Registration Convention, the Rescue and Return Agreement, as well as best practices and norms of responsible behavior that NASA and its partners have supported, including the public release of scientific data. "It is very important we take this step as it is key that we move forward in the field of space development. We are convinced that it must be a state policy," said President Fernández. "We have done a lot to retain our scientists, we have always been interested in science and technology, we believe that this is the way to go." Additional countries will sign the Artemis Accords in the months and years ahead, as NASA continues to work with its international partners to establish a safe, peaceful, and prosperous future in space. Working with both new and existing partners will add new energy and capabilities to ensure the entire world can benefit from our journey of exploration and discovery. Learn more about the Artemis Accords at: https://www.nasa.gov/artemisaccords     View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasa-welcomes-argentina-as-newest-artemis-accords-signatory-301888516.html SOURCE  NASA © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.