Our website uses cookies to give you the most optimal experience online by: measuring our audience, understanding how our webpages are viewed and improving consequently the way our website works, providing you with relevant and personalized marketing content. You have full control over what you want to activate. You can accept the cookies by clicking on the “Accept all cookies” button or customize your choices by selecting the cookies you want to activate. You can also decline all non-necessary cookies by clicking on the “Decline all cookies” button. Please find more information on our use of cookies and how to withdraw at any time your consent on our privacy policy. Our website uses cookies. You have full control over what you want to activate. You can accept the cookies by clicking on the “Accept all cookies” button or customize your choices by selecting the cookies you want to activate. You can also decline all non-necessary cookies by clicking on the “Decline all cookies” button.  These are essential for the user navigation and allow to give access to certain functionalities such as secured zones accesses. Without these cookies, it won’t be possible to provide the service.Matomo on premise  These cookies are used to deliver advertisements more relevant for you, limit the number of times you see an advertisement; help measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaign; and understand people’s behavior after they view an advertisement. Adobe Privacy policy | Marketo Privacy Policy | MRP Privacy Policy | AccountInsight Privacy Policy | Triblio Privacy Policy  These cookies are used to measure the effectiveness of social media campaigns.LinkedIn Policy Our website uses cookies to give you the most optimal experience online by: measuring our audience, understanding how our webpages are viewed and improving consequently the way our website works, providing you with relevant and personalized marketing content. You can also decline all non-necessary cookies by clicking on the “Decline all cookies” button. Please find more information on our use of cookies and how to withdraw at any time your consent on our privacy policy. Homepage We design digital solutions from the everyday to the mission critical — in artificial intelligence, hybrid cloud, infrastructure management, decarbonization and employee experience. Discover more We lead data-driven, trusted & sustainable digital transformation. A next-generation digital business, Eviden stems from worldwide leading positions in digital, cloud, data, advanced computing and security. Discover more Cloud and Infrastructure Digital Workplace Technology Services Sports & Major Events Sustainability Services  Download the brochure >  View the magazine > 

 All events 

 

 Read more > 

 

 All client stories  Read the executive summary now > Worldwide digital leader € 11 billion revenue 95,000 employees 69 countries Olympic and Paralympic Games Worldwide Partner Raison d’être > Atos Ecobranding >  Download the 2023 Universal Registration Document   Innovation Centers Expert Community Scientific Community Inventors’ Awards  Atos IT Challenge  Atos Joseph Fourier Prize  Read the report  Download the 2023 Universal Registration Document  Scaler is a worldwide start-up accelerator. It unleashes the business value of entrepreneurial innovation through collaboration among Atos technologists and 20 start-ups in all industries.   Atos today announces its recognition by the 2023 Information Services Group (ISG) Provider Lens™ as a “Leader” in mainframe services and solutions in Europe for the second year in a row. This ranking confirms Atos’ position within the European market and its ability to deliver complex, large-scale modernization projects to clients. The report ranks Atos as a leader in three categories: mainframe application modernization and transformation services, mainframe-as-a-service, and mainframe operations. Atos was also ranked as a “Rising Star” in mainframe modernization services. ISG outlines Atos’ complete portfolio of services, methodologies, tools, large partner network, longstanding reputation and ability to successfully deliver reliable mainframe-as-a-service (MFaaS) and operations as well as large-scale mainframe modernization projects. The report emphasizes Atos’ robust global mainframe operations and highly innovative services, combined with its MFaaS offering, which reduces total cost of ownership and supports clients with optimized, flexible, cloud-like mainframe application hosting as a path to modernization. As a Rising Star in mainframe Modernization Services, Atos was recognized for its strong market presence in application development, continuous expansion in the mainframe modernization market, integrated toolset, accelerated testing capabilities as well as robust local and global partnerships. ISG cites Atos’ 45 years of mainframe expertise and ability to address the full scope of modernization programs with multiyear contracts that include a commitment clause on client savings. “The ISG report Mainframes – Services and Solutions for Europe 2023 confirms that Atos is uniquely positioned to support organizations as they realize the full potential of the hybrid world, enabling them to innovate their use of mainframes. Atos combines the efficiencies of mainframe platforms and managed services with accelerated migration to cloud technologies in a hybrid IT infrastructure”, said Laurent Barbet, COO Tech Foundations & Head of Hybrid Cloud & Infrastructure, Atos. “Atos provides an integrated strategy, comprehensive transformation tools and platforms, mainframe hubs to clients in Europe. The company has enhanced partner ecosystem and provides reliable framework for migrating mainframe workloads to the cloud”, said Manoj M, Research Analyst, ISG. To download a copy of the report, please click here. ***   About Atos Atos is a global leader in digital transformation with 110,000 employees and annual revenue of c. € 11 billion. European number one in cybersecurity, cloud and high-performance computing, the Group provides tailored end-to-end solutions for all industries in 69 countries. A pioneer in decarbonization services and products, Atos is committed to a secure and decarbonized digital for its clients. Atos is a SE (Societas Europaea), listed on Euronext Paris. The purpose of Atos is to help design the future of the information space. Its expertise and services support the development of knowledge, education and research in a multicultural approach and contribute to the development of scientific and technological excellence. Across the world, the Group enables its customers and employees, and members of societies at large to live, work and develop sustainably, in a safe and secure information space.  