Wells Fargo analyst Elyse Greenspan maintained a Buy rating on Arthur J Gallagher & Co (AJG – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $237.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $229.00. According to TipRanks, Greenspan is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 10.3% and a 62.58% success rate. Greenspan covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Allstate, Progressive, and Prudential Financial. Currently, the analyst consensus on Arthur J Gallagher & Co is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $236.17, a 3.13% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 30, Argus Research also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $264.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $232.00  and a one-year low of $166.15. Currently, Arthur J Gallagher & Co has an average volume of 753.7K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 83 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of AJG in relation to earlier this year. Last month, Mead Christopher E, the VP of AJG sold 3,300.00 shares for a total of $746,262.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. engages in the provision of insurance brokerage, consulting, and third party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. It operates through the following business segments: Brokerage, Risk Management and Corporate. The Brokerage segment comprises of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. The Risk Management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises and public entities that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for underwriting enterprises that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. The Corporate segment manages clean energy and other investments. The company was founded by Arthur J. Gallagher on October 1, 1927 and is headquartered in Rolling Meadows, IL.  Read More on AJG: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks