Wells Fargo analyst Elyse Greenspan maintained a Buy rating on Arthur J Gallagher & Co (AJG – Research Report) yesterday and set a price target of $266.00. Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo has given a Buy rating to Arthur J Gallagher & Co’s stock due to several significant factors. First and foremost, the company’s Q3 Earnings Per Share (EPS) of $2.00 was higher than expected, outperforming both Greenspan’s own estimate of $1.92 and the general consensus of $1.96. This solid financial performance indicates a strong potential for future growth, making the stock an attractive investment.
Moreover, the EPS increase was driven by key areas within the company. A part of the increase, specifically $0.04, was attributed to the company’s Brokerage sector, while $0.01 was due to Risk Management. These figures demonstrate strong performance across different segments of the company, further strengthening the case for a Buy rating. Overall, Greenspan’s rating is based on the company’s impressive financial performance and the potential for continued growth. Greenspan covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Allstate, Progressive, and Voya Financial. According to TipRanks, Greenspan has an average return of 10.4% and a 62.70% success rate on recommended stocks.  In another report released on October 24, BMO Capital also assigned a Buy rating to the stock with a $268.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >>
  TipRanks tracks over 100,000 company insiders, identifying the select few who excel in timing their transactions. By upgrading to TipRanks Premium, you will gain access to this exclusive data and discover crucial insights to guide your investment decisions.  Begin your TipRanks Premium journey today.  Arthur J Gallagher & Co (AJG) Company Description: Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. engages in the provision of insurance brokerage, consulting, and third party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. It operates through the following business segments: Brokerage, Risk Management and Corporate. The Brokerage segment comprises of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. The Risk Management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises and public entities that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for underwriting enterprises that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. The Corporate segment manages clean energy and other investments. The company was founded by Arthur J. Gallagher on October 1, 1927 and is headquartered in Rolling Meadows, IL. 
 Read More on AJG: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks