— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission.​​ Presidents Day 2023 is today, February 20 and if you're looking to end the long weekend by shopping the best sales, we've got you covered. We found some of the best prices on everything from meal kits and home essentials to appliances and activewear. Keep scrolling for discounts at a few of our favorite retailers, including Samsung, CVS, Adidas and more.  Here's the deal: Subscribe to our Perks and Rec newsletter for daily savings on all the things you want and need. ►Presidents Day 2023: 20 best mattress deals to shop at Mattress Firm, Saatva and Casper ►Kitchen deals: Our Place just marked down the cast iron Always Pan for the first time since Black Friday If you're looking to get some shopping done today, here are the best sales that we recommend checking out. Save on medicine, candy, bathroom essentials and so much more at CVS. Right now, you can take advantage of hundreds of buy one, get one free deals on makeup, skincare, candy and more. Bundle up for outdoor adventures this winter with the help of REI. During the brand's winter clearance sale, you can get up to 60% off shoes, jackets, boots, gloves and so much more outdoor gear. If you're thinking of scoring some athletic wear this Presidents Day, head to Nike and save up to 40% during their clearance sale. Get markdowns on thousands of Nike products including sneakers, sweaters, puffer jackets and so much more. Plus, Nike members can use coupon code MEMBER25 to get an extra 25% off select styles. 4. AncestryDNA Presidents Day 2023 celebrates our nation's history and past, but how much do you know about your family's own history? With AncestryDNA, you can use DNA kits to study your family tree and the people it's comprised of. For just $1, you get a 3-month World Explorer membership that allows you access to your entire family history record collection.  Sign up for Factor meal kits today and use coupon code REVIEWED60OFF for 60% off your first box and 20% off your second, third, fourth and fifth boxes. Based on your own dietary needs, you can choose from a wide variety of meals including vegan, keto and calorie-conscious meals below 650 calories. Additionally, you can select as many as 18 meals per box depending on your needs. Best Buy always has tech savings galore, and ahead of Presidents Day it's no different. Right now, you can save $50 on the Meta Quest 2 bundle and get a headset, controllers and Resident Evil 4 all for $349.99. Shopping for the best TV deals? You can save up to $1,500 on TVs from Samsung, LG, and more for a limited time only!  Treat yourself to sporty savings this Presidents Day at this Adidas sale. The popular retailer is slashing prices on must-have threads, including outdoor gear, workout-ready apparel and more for a limited time only. With markdowns of up to 65% when you use code SCORE, you can pick up stellar Adidas gear for less right now. Want to make sure your dog is getting the best food possible? Head to The Farmer's Dog today and get 50% off your first order of fresh and nutritional dog food. The brand's meals are veterinarian-approved and sent right to your door, which saves you time and money while providing the best care to your pups.  Presidents Day 2023 here and Samsung has tons of deals to help you ring in the federal holiday. For example, you can save up to $1,100 on Samsung Bespoke fridges, $1,000 on a stylish, curved gaming monitor and so much more. Head to the electronics retailer today to check out all the appliance savings available right now. Ahead of Presidents Day 2023, you can save 20% sitewide on men's and women's watches at Citizen Watch. Shop unbelievable deals on must-have smartwatches, including new arrivals, limited-edition releases, the Eco-Drive One, CZ Smart and more. Transformer Table: Get a free coffee table with select modular furniture purchases. Nom Nom pet food: Get 50% off your first order of healthy dog food London Sock Company: Enter your email address for 20% off your first order of socks Noble Panacea: Shop luxurious science-backed skincare Obé Fitness: Get your first year for $99 with coupon code MOVEMENT99 Willow Pump: Save up to 25% on pump kits Twenty/Twenty Beauty: Save 20% on nude cream-based eyeshadow sticks The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.