Paramount Global has entered an agreement to sell Simon & Schuster to investment firm KKR for $1.62 billion in an all-cash transaction. “We are pleased to have reached an agreement on a transaction that delivers excellent value to Paramount shareholders while also positioning Simon & Schuster for its next phase of growth with KKR,” Paramount’s president and CEO Bob Bakish said in a statement. “The proceeds will give Paramount additional financial flexibility and greater ability to create long-term value for shareholders, while also delevering our balance sheet.” Upon the deal’s close, the book publisher will become a standalone private company run by its current chief executive officer Jonathan Karp and chief financial officer Dennis Eulau. Completion of the deal remains subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. Paramount expects the transaction to yield approximately $1.3 billion in net proceeds resulting in a roughly 0.5x improvement in net leverage. Proceeds from the sale will be used to help pay down Paramount’s debt. KKR, the second-largest private equity firm in the country with more than $500 million in assets, is making its investment in Simon & Schuster primarily through its North America Fund XIII and has secured fully committed financing for the transaction. The deal builds on KKR’s investing in content-oriented media businesses, including Epic Games, Mediawan, Leonine Studios, Artlist, Skydance Media, BMG and RBmedia, among others. In addition to investing in all areas necessary to establish Simon & Schuster as a standalone entity, KKR intends to support numerous growth initiatives, including extending its domestic publishing program across various genres and categories, expanding its distribution relationships and accelerating growth in international markets. “We see a compelling opportunity to help Simon & Schuster become an even stronger partner to literary talent by investing in the expansion of the company’s capabilities and distribution networks across mediums and markets while maintaining its 99 year legacy of editorial independence,” KKR Media chairman Richard Sarnoff said. “We also believe the opportunity to create an ownership culture within one of the world’s top publishers has enormous potential to create value for all of Simon & Schuster’s stakeholders.” The agreement comes after chief financial officer Naveen Chopra said in June that Paramount was “pretty deep into the remarketing process” for a potential sale of of the book publisher. A deal was initially closed to sell it to Bertelsmann’s Penguin Random House for $2.2 billion, but that was ultimately blocked following a lawsuit from the Department of Justice. LionTree Advisors is acting as financial advisor and Shearman & Sterling LLP is acting as legal advisor to Paramount. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is acting as legal advisor to KKR. The news coincided with Paramounts quarterly results for the second quarter of 2023. Paramount shares have climbed as much as 7% in after-hours trading on Monday following the announcement. The post Paramount Global to Sell Simon & Schuster to Investment Firm KKR for $1.6 Billion appeared first on TheWrap. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others.