We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage  AR, the token that Arweave’s decentralized data storage network, is an outperformer in the cryptocurrency space this Tuesday. According to CoinMarketCap, the cryptocurrency was last trading higher by about 4.5% in the last 24 hours, meaning it is the second-best performing cryptocurrency in the top 100 by market capitalization over this time period. According to TradingView citing Binance data, AR/USD was last up just over 3.0% on Tuesday, having rallied back above its 21-Day Moving Average at $9.45 to the $9.70 area. Arweave price predictions have become more bullish on Tuesday, despite the fact that the cryptocurrency has for now found resistance just under $10 in the form of recent highs and its 100DMA. That because AR has formed an ascending triangle, a technical pattern that often forms as price pressure builds ahead of a bullish breakout. If AR/USD can muster a meaningful push above the $10 level and get above its 100 and 50 DMAs (at $10.00 and $10.27 respectively), then the cryptocurrency could be in for a quick run towards the next key area of resistance in the low $11.0s per token in the form of the 20th of November high and the 200DMA. Whether Arweave could then make a push all the way back to its H2 2022 highs in the $17s per token is another thing. One potential source of upside for the AR token is if its network continues to experience exponential growth. According to Warp Contracts, who build smart contracts on top of the Arweave blockchain, November was one of the best months for the network. 1/ 🍂 November was one of the best months for the network. The amount of data uploaded, as well as the number of individual uploaders, continued to grow, while storage remained extremely affordable. Arweave 2.6 is on its way. What will happen then? 👀 https://t.co/dj83PuF2O5 — Warp Contracts (@warp_contracts) December 5, 2022  The network’s continued rapid growth is expected in wake of its recent partnership with Instagram. In early November, Meta began using Arweave to permanently store digital collectibles on Instagram. Users of the platform are now able to issue digital collectibles for their posts, all of which will be stored on Arweave. 📣 Major announcement: @Meta is now using Arweave to permanently store digital collectables from @Instagram. Instagram users are now able to issue digital collectables for their posts, stored on Arweave. Some thoughts 👇 pic.twitter.com/Y0xjhDwHid — 🐘🔗 sam.arweave.dev (@samecwilliams) November 2, 2022  Cryptocurrency networks that experience rapid sustained growth over a sustained period of time tend to see outsized gains in the price of their cryptocurrency in the long term. AR investors will be hoping that Arweave’s positive growth can eventually translate into a price rally. November’s price spike on the Meta partnership news ended up as a false breakout from the cryptocurrency’s long-term downtrend. A sustained pushback above AR’s 200DMA at $11.30 could herald more than just a recovery to H2 2022 highs in the $17.0s. It could be the beginning of a bull market that might see AR go all the way back to its late 2021 record highs in the $90s. Those interested in investing in a promising crypto trading platform start-up should look no further than Dash 2 Trade. The up-and-coming analytics and social trading platform hopes to take the crypto trading space by storm with its host of unique features. These include trading signals, social sentiment and on-chain indicators, a pre-sale token scoring system, a token listing alert system and a strategy back-testing tool. Dash 2 Trade’s ecosystem will be powered by the D2T token, which users will need to buy and hold in order to access the platform’s features. Dash 2 Trade is currently conducting a token pre-sale at highly discounted rates. D2T token sales recently surpassed $8.7 million. The sale is very close to entering its fourth phase, with over 99.8% of stage 3 tokens now sold. When the sale enters its next stage, prices per token will be lifted to $0.0533 from $0.0513. Visit Dash 2 Trade here Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Since graduating with a degree in economics in the UK in 2018, Joel has worked as a financial market/cryptocurrency analyst. Joel firmly believes that emerging crypto technology will transform the world for the better through the facilitation of decentralization. Joel has written for a variety of cryptocurrency and financial market media outlets, including the likes of InsideBitcoins, Be[In]Crypto, FX Empire,… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage According ...