By John Bailey AEIdeas May 01, 2023 One of the most significant challenges confronting policymakers lies not in the generation of innovative policies but rather in effectively executing them. Numerous policy aspirations in the past decade have been impeded by subpar implementation, frequently stemming from an insufficient understanding of service delivery via digital platforms. The COVID-19 pandemic has only heightened state governments’ urgency to strengthen their digital service delivery, as the inadequacies of traditional methods were laid bare by the collapse of unemployment websites in New York and other states, which were unable to cope with the sudden influx of claims filed electronically during the crisis. Technology errors struck again when the Virginia Department of Education’s funding estimates for schools included a $200 million spreadsheet error that had to be subsequently walked back. But these are longstanding challenges. California Assemblyman David Chiu lamented, “Almost every month we are briefed on yet another incredible IT failure in state government . . . The challenge that state government has with technology has been going on for years, if not decades.” In collaboration with scholars at the American Enterprise Institute, Georgetown University’s Beeck Center for Social Impact + Innovation, and New America (along with input from 150 nonprofit, government, and technical leaders), the Tech Talent Project released a series of memos offering guidance on how states can quickly and effectively build technical capacity to deliver on policy outcomes while avoiding past pitfalls. The memos highlight best practices for states to learn about, focusing on foundational tools such as tech talent, data practices, procurement processes, and cybersecurity. These memos also address crucial program areas, including broadband access, child welfare, education data systems, safety net program coordination, and unemployment insurance. There are five broad takeaways from these memos: By implementing the best practices outlined in these memos, states could make significant progress in improving their technology capacity to better serve their constituents. Governors’ offices, agency leaders, and key decision-makers must work together to build momentum, hire senior-level positions with technical expertise, and focus on delivering services effectively. Already, New York Gov. Kathy Hochul announced plans to appoint the state’s first chief customer experience officer, and Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro signed an executive order focused on improving state residents’ digital experience.  Investing in modern technology and infrastructure will not only help states navigate the challenges of today but also prepare them for those of the future. By learning from past mistakes and embracing new opportunities, state governments can improve the lives of millions of Americans and build a stronger, more resilient nation. See also: Building Trust in AI: A Call for Clear Guidelines to Harness Its Benefits | Congress Passed Historic Innovation Legislation. Its Implementation Now Falls to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. | Implementing Federal Innovation Programs: A Road Map for States The latest on technology policy from AEI in your inbox every morning Thank you for your submission.