
UPDATED 09:00 EDT / SEPTEMBER 20 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Duncan Riley

 Data security startup Dig Security Solutions Inc. today announced the expansion of the Dig Data Security Platform to protect data anywhere enterprises store sensitive information, including public cloud, software-as-a-service, database-as-a-service and on-premise environments. The expansion of the Dig Data Security Platform means its data security posture management and data detection and response capabilities now can be deployed to protect data stored in Office 365 and on-premises. New features include a single platform for enterprise data protection. The single platform is said to reduce tool bloat by combining disparate tools used to handle data security and compliance risks in the cloud — such as with Amazon Web Services Inc., Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform and Snowflake Inc., and with SaaS offerings such as Office 365 and on-premises file shares. The consolidation and simplification include data stores, uniform policy applications and quicker response times. Dig has introduced new ease of deployment and ongoing use, cutting down installation to minutes with minimum permissions required for deployment. The improvement deployment is claimed to save businesses months of evaluation and implementation of different tools, as well as maintaining complex toolchains, providing fast time to value overall. The expansion includes a higher level of coverage, with Dig eliminating data blind spots across the entire data estate, cloud and on-premises. The additional coverage reduces the risk of potential issues such as data exfiltration, ransomware, or compliance violations. In addition, Dig’s platform now offers shorter time-to-detect and time-to-respond, with real-time capabilities that let businesses address incidents faster and allow them to contain a breach or violation immediately, limiting its harm radius. “The modern enterprise is on a journey to migrate their data processes to the cloud, but many must also retain on-premises components,” said co-founder and Chief Executive Dan Benjamin. “This leads to a complex and fragmented toolchain that’s been extremely challenging to manage and secure – until now.” Benjamin added that “by extending our DSPM and DDR capabilities to on-prem environments, we’re equipping our customers with an unprecedented level of visibility and comprehensive data security–helping them safeguard sensitive information and avoid devastating attacks.” Dig Security is a venture capital-backed company, having last raised $34 million in funding in September. The company’s investors include SignalFire LP, Felicis LLC, Okta Ventures LLC and Team8 LP. THANK YOU Judge rules artists' copyright claims against AI companies can proceed EU Commissioner just warned Elon Musk over dangerous content and it backfired badly FTC enters Google v. Epic Games case and hints that Google should be broken up Sakana AI creates an 'AI Scientist' to automate scientific research and discovery Federal appeals court rules that geofence warrants are unconstitutional RISC-V chip startup Akeana launches with $100M+ in funding Judge rules artists' copyright claims against AI companies can proceed AI - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 1 HOUR AGO EU Commissioner just warned Elon Musk over dangerous content and it backfired badly POLICY - BY JAMES FARRELL . 2 HOURS AGO FTC enters Google v. Epic Games case and hints that Google should be broken up POLICY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 2 HOURS AGO Sakana AI creates an 'AI Scientist' to automate scientific research and discovery AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 2 HOURS AGO Federal appeals court rules that geofence warrants are unconstitutional POLICY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 HOURS AGO RISC-V chip startup Akeana launches with $100M+ in funding INFRA - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 5 HOURS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.