Support quality, independent, local journalism…that mattersFrom just £1 a month you can help fund our work – and use our website without adverts. Become a member today At four o’clock on a wet Thursday afternoon, a group of parents and children gathered in St Gwladys’ church hall. There was magic in the air as teacher Lisa Mitchard transformed the children into rocks, and then into tall giraffes, slithering snakes, flying birds and even dinosaurs – all with a wave of her invisible wand. But this wasn’t a Harry Potter film, it was one of many fun activities at Stargoed – a children’s drama club running every Thursday in Bargoed. “Stargoed is a community class,” said Lisa, “to have lots of fun and just build lots of skills.” There’s singing, dancing, games and teamworking – all based around drama. There are two classes. A 30-minute class for three to four-year-olds at 4pm, where parental supervision is required, followed by an hour-long class for primary-aged schoolchildren starting at 4.30pm.  There are big benefits in attending, according to Lisa, who said: “Parents have said to me they can see the confidence building in other areas of their life.” Lisa, 34, lives in Caerphilly and has a Masters in drama. She has run classes locally for a number of years and now works freelance, running classes in other places like New Tredegar and Blackwood, where the classes cater for all ages up to 18.  The sessions in Bargoed have been running since September 2022, and are supported by the Caerphilly County Borough Council arts development team, but are run by the team at St Gwladys’ Church Hall.  Miriam Page, 32, is a project coordinator at the hall and helps with the classes, which, as she explained to Caerphilly Observer, are in line with the ethos of the church hall. “We’re a grassroots project and we’re run by the Church in Wales,” said Miriam. “Our belief is to just provide healthy and wellbeing-focused activities for the community.” Stargoed classes are priced at £3 to keep costs to a minimum.  Lots of children who attend are from St Gwladys’ Primary School, but there are children who come from Gilfach and Aberbargoed too. It is one of many classes and events which take place at the hall, which also includes a Fareshare Project and a craft group. “We try to be a space for everyone to come in,” said Miriam, “we try to cater for all abilities in our different groups. “If there is anything missing we’re always looking for suggestions for new groups to start.” Sign-up to our daily newsletter 

 Support quality, independent, local journalism…that mattersFrom just £1 a month you can help fund our work – and use our website without adverts.Become a member today Latest News