Jackson’s Rainbow PUSH Coalition said it “wholeheartedly support” the $8.6B deal 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 WASHINGTON D.C.—Rev. Jesse Jackson has sent a letter to the FCC saying the Rainbow PUSH Coalition he heads is backing the proposed $8.6B deal for Standard General to acquire the Tegna station group.   In the letter Jackson write that “I want to take this opportunity to extend my full support of Mr. Soo Kim and Standard General. After meeting with Soo Kim and upon careful and scrupulous review of his record on diversity and inclusion, my team and I wholeheartedly support the purchase of Tegna.” “Soo Kim, being Korean-American, is sensitive to the plight of racial justice, equity and inclusion,” Jackson continued. “It is my strong belief that Soo Kim would be committed to inclusion which leads to growth in the America of our dreams. He will honor the spirit and the law representing the best in American ideals.” Jackson also noted that their support comes at a time when “the attack on Asian Americans, anti-Semitism and the attempt by leadership to turn back racial justice are foremost in his mind. He is one of us.” “The Rainbow PUSH Coalition will continue to monitor the project as we do with all of our corporate partners on Wall Street, Silicon Valley and globally to ensure that promises made are promises kept,” Jackson concluded.  The professional video industry's #1 source for news, trends and product and tech information. Sign up below. George Winslow is the senior content producer for TV Tech. He has written about the television, media and technology industries for nearly 30 years for such publications as Broadcasting & Cable, Multichannel News and TV Tech. Over the years, he has edited a number of magazines, including Multichannel News International and World Screen, and moderated panels at such major industry events as NAB and MIP TV. He has published two books and dozens of encyclopedia articles on such subjects as the media, New York City history and economics. N.Y. Court Upholds Retrans Ruling Against Nexstar ATSC To Exhibit 3.0 Developments At Brazil’s SET Expo 2024 TV Tech's Weekly Product Wrap-Up TV Tech is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 