The inspector thought it was the 'wrong development in the wrong place' Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest news from Darlington direct to your inbox with our free email newsletter We have more newsletters An appeal against a council decision to block a controversial retail scheme which included a Lidl, bargain store and drive-thru has been refused.  Developer ML Retail has failed to overturn Middlesbrough Council’s decision to refuse its plans. Councillors unanimously voted against the proposals, for an empty grassy area on Low Lane, near where the road crosses the A174, in September last year.  The planning inspectorate sided with the council meaning the scheme, which would have seen nine new units, including a drive-thru and a variety store that could have been a Home Bargains or B&M, won’t be allowed to go ahead. READ MORE:Teesworks: MP Andy McDonald questions whether MP Dehenna Davison breached Ministerial Code The plans could have brought up to 98 full-time jobs to the area. However, Inspector Philip Major was not convinced the scheme was right for the area concluding it was the “wrong development in the wrong place.”  The planning inspectorate was persuaded that the scheme couldn’t be adopted by Coulby Newham’s Parkway Centre because further development there had been committed to another firm. It also did not believe the new scheme would significantly impact the Parkway Centre.   However, it was blocked, in part, because the scheme would conflict with plans for shops in the Brookfield residential development to the north of the proposed site.  The report states: “The Brookfield centre has been a long-standing policy proposal with a subsequent masterplan. Additionally, the council’s evidence shows that the developers at Brookfield have indicated that a planning application will be submitted this year.” Mr Major was also concerned that it was “highly unlikely” that visitors would want to cycle or walk to the proposed shops. He added: “Taking this issue in the round it is my judgement that the proposed development, although not creating unacceptable congestion, would fail to deliver a suitably accessible development for use other than by private car.” This would mean the development would conflict with council policy. Mr Major concluded: “First, the scale and layout of the proposal would be harmful to the appearance of the location in which it would be situated. Secondly, it would offer little in the way of attraction for anyone other than those using private cars. Thirdly, the layout of the site would involve significant risk of inefficient circulation, potential for inconvenience, delay and attendant safety concerns.” He went on to add: “In my judgement this is the wrong development in the wrong place…It has the hallmarks of being a scheme designed to maximise floorspace rather than truly provide a local centre for the nearby residential areas. In my judgement these are serious flaws of approach.” At a planning committee meeting in September 2021, a number of councillors were vocal about their opposition due to potential traffic issues. Independent Cllr Joan McTigue said: “It’s entirely in the wrong place. "The traffic is a nightmare it's only going to make that absolutely horrendous. The drive-thru is too close to the main road.” Former councillor Carolyn Dodds, who represented Trimdon ward where the development is proposed, was also against the proposals. She said: “I do think the transport situation would be diabolical. The people in the new builds want somewhere they can walk to the shops." Savills’ Brad Wiseman, who was representing ML Retail, claimed the council was sent more information on August 11 about contributions for highways mitigation schemes and sustainable transport infrastructure which he did not feel were reflected in the council’s report. However, the council's planning head Paul Clarke believes the council report was accurate and robust enough. READ NEXT:  Teesside's Venator files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy amid shake-up   Tragedy as delivery driver dies following 'medical incident' at Port Clarence landfill site   Driver abandons car after smashing into fence leaving behind machete and suspected class A drugs   Murderers who beat Carlos Boyce to death jailed for life as son pays tribute to 'hero'   For breaking news in your area direct to your inbox every day,   go    here  to sign up to our free newsletter 