Singapore, Singapore, 12th January, 2023, Chainwire Are you looking for signals & alerts from pro-traders? Sign-up to Invezz Signals™ for FREE. Takes 2 mins. Molecular Group, a leading investment firm based in Hong Kong, is pleased to announce the establishment of its new investment company, XMG Capital. Located in Singapore, a hub for the rapidly growing blockchain industry, XMG Capital will focus on investing in high-quality blockchain projects, equity, tokens, and Web 3.0 technologies in the payment sector. The company will also explore opportunities in the wider fintech space.   With its favorable policies towards the blockchain industry and a strong track record of supporting innovation, Singapore is the perfect location for XMG Capital. The company’s team has a wealth of experience in finance and technology and is committed to identifying and supporting the most promising blockchain-based projects and companies. XMG Capital is excited to be at the forefront of the transformation that the blockchain is bringing to various industries and is dedicated to helping drive the growth and development of the ecosystem. The company looks forward to creating value for its clients and stakeholders through its investments in the blockchain space. As the blockchain industry continues to mature and evolve, XMG Capital is well-positioned to take advantage of the many opportunities it presents. The company will focus on identifying projects with strong potential for growth and success and will work closely with its portfolio companies to help them realize their full potential. In addition to equity and token investments, XMG Capital will also consider strategic partnerships and other types of collaborations that can help its portfolio companies succeed. The company is committed to building long-term relationships with its portfolio companies and supporting their growth over the long term. XMG Capital is excited to be a part of the vibrant and innovative community of blockchain companies and investors in Singapore and looks forward to contributing to the industry’s growth and success. The company is confident that its team’s expertise and experience, combined with the strong ecosystem in Singapore, will allow it to make a meaningful impact in the industry. Molecular Group focuses on blockchain investments, the group also has a high-profile digital asset quantification and protection team, as well as a service platform for digital asset investment called Molecular Future. Additionally, the company has a research institute for the digital economy called Molecular Hub, as well as a blockchain media and exchange. Molecular Group team, XMG CAPITAL PTE. LTD., [email protected] Want easy-to-follow crypto, forex & stock trading signals? Make trading simple by copying our team of pro-traders. Consistent results. Sign-up today at Invezz Signals™.    Use Invezz APP Get a better user experience Allow notifications? Allow us to send you updates You must agree to the privacy policy.