The new retail sector action plan has been welcomed by union and retail trade bodies  All the results, acquisitions and trends every Friday We have more newsletters  All the results, acquisitions and trends every Friday We have more newsletters Plans to revive the retail sector in Wales have been unveiled by the Welsh Government and the Wales Retail Forum. The retail sector is one of the largest private sector employers in Wales, employing 139,000 people in 2021. The new retail sector action plan aims to make Welsh retail more resilient and outlines key policies delivered over a two-year period. Its policies include: championing workforce equality; diversity and inclusion at all levels; embedding fair work principles by promoting the Real Living Wage, the benefits of the Economic Contract and the role of trades unions; promoting the benefits of careers in the sector; assessing skills and training provision; adopting the Town Centre First policy in planning; reducing town centre vacant premises by supporting Local Authorities to match businesses to them or encourage community and other worthwhile use; working collaboratively to promote town centre/high street events to increase footfall; creating safer working environments; encouraging the retail sector to move towards net zero. The Welsh Government said it will also continue to use levers such as the Young Person’s Guarantee and employability support schemes, Transforming Towns funding, Business Wales support and Non-Domestic Rates relief to support the growth of the sector. Read more: Welsh marina group goes into administration The plan has been welcomed by the Welsh Retail Consortium (WRC), Wales TUC, and the Association of Convenience Stores (ACS). Head of the WRC Sara Jones said: “Welsh retailers have shown exceptional fortitude and resilience to come through the challenges of the past few years, a period of profound transformation for the industry which was accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Welsh Retail Consortium is delighted to have partnered with the Government to develop this action plan which recognises the substantial economic and social contribution that retailers are making in Wales and outlines a shared approach to sustainably grow the industry. “The plan has clear purpose and intent and demonstrates a shared willingness from the sector and Government to work in partnership and give the industry the support it needs to thrive. There is plenty to build on, and much work still to do, but we are confident that the sector is being listened to. The WRC will continue to press the case for prioritising the needs of our members, colleagues, and customers, helping to unlock the barriers to enabling Welsh retail to prosper in the years to come.” Shavanah Taj, Wales TUC general secretary said: “Designing the Retail Action Plan in social partnership means that workers, employers, and government all have a stake in its success. “The retail sector is one of Wales’s biggest employers, but much more needs to be done to raise the level of pay for retail workers and improve terms and conditions more broadly. The plan sets this in motion, recognising that raising unionisation rates is pivotal. It also recognises that the sector has specific challenges with abuse and violence faced by shop workers, with actions to address this. Chief executive of the ACS James Lowman said: “We are pleased that the Retail Action Plan has acknowledged the important contribution that convenience stores make to the Welsh economy and to communities across Wales, by providing access to essential products and services and acting as a social hub for those who may be more isolated or vulnerable. “The Plan has also noted the pressures that businesses are currently facing and the need to provide retailers with certainty and support in order for them to thrive now and into the future. We will continue to engage with the Welsh Government, including through the Retail Forum on which we sit, to highlight the unique opportunities and challenges faced by local shops.” As well as an in-depth early morning newsletter, we will be sending out regular breaking news email alerts. To sign up to this service CLICK HERE LinkedIn And, follow us on LinkedIn to catch the latest stories and to network with the Welsh business community. Economy Minister Vaughan Gething said: “Our retail sector has a vital contribution to make to our town and city centres, rural communities, and our wider well-being, which was never better evidenced than during the Covid-19 pandemic, when retailers provided vital services to people and communities across Wales. “The launch of this plan comes at a time when the sector is facing considerable change affecting business operations, the workforce, consumer behaviours and the broader economic context and outlook. Overlaying those issues are the headwinds of a cost-of-living and cost-of-doing-business crisis, with all the uncertainty that brings. “We remain committed to an ongoing conversation, through the Retail Forum, to shape our response to current and future challenges and opportunities.” READ NEXT: One of Wales' biggest food firms goes into administration with more than 200 jobs lost Plans submitted for over 200 new homes in Cardiff Welsh Government not doing enough to develop EV infrastructure The father-and-son Welsh bottling start-up that's seen revenues climb 900% Llanelli tech firm signs five-year sponsorship deal with home of Cardiff Devils 