A versatile, aesthetically pleasing smart lock I'm PCMag's managing editor for consumer electronics, overseeing an experienced team of analysts covering smart home, home entertainment, wearables, fitness and health tech, and various other product categories. I have been with PCMag for more than 10 years, and in that time have written more than 6,000 articles and reviews for the site. I previously served as an analyst focused on smart home and wearable devices, and before that I was a reporter covering consumer tech news. I'm also a yoga instructor, and have been actively teaching group and private classes for nearly a decade.  The Yale Assure Lock 2 is a style-minded smart lock that makes it easy to go keyless and manage access to your front door while offering interoperability with many popular third-party smart home platforms. Whether you're renting your home out to guests, want to monitor your dog walker's comings and goings, or you're just tired of fumbling around with keys, a smart lock can add serious convenience to your life. The Assure Lock 2 from Yale is sleeker and smarter than the previous generation and supports Apple HomeKit on all models. It starts at $159.99 for a Bluetooth-only version, while the top-of-the-line touch-screen model with Wi-Fi goes for $259.99. No matter which you choose, the Assure Lock 2 lets you lock and unlock the door in multiple ways, create and manage access codes for guests, and view a timeline of door and lock activity. The $249 Ultraloq U-Bolt Pro Wi-Fi Smart Lock remains our Editors' Choice winner for its biometric fingerprint scanner, but the Assure Lock 2 is a strong competitor with a striking design.  Ranging from $159.99 to $259.99, the Assure Lock 2 collection is made up of four models, which are up to 30% smaller than their predecessors. The base models feature a keypad with physical buttons, though you can upgrade to a touch screen for $20 more. Each is available key-free or keyed, the latter of which features a mechanical key cylinder that works with a physical key. Key-free and keyed models cost the same. The Assure Lock 2 is available in three finishes: Black Suede, Oil-Rubbed Bronze, or Satin Nickel.  All models work with the Yale Access app (available for Android, iOS, and watchOS) via Bluetooth and support Apple HomeKit. In the box with the Assure Lock 2 you also get Yale's DoorSense device, which uses a magnetic sensor to track when your door is open and closed.  To control the lock beyond the limited Bluetooth range (about 30 feet), you need a Wi-Fi Smart Module, which inserts into the back of the lock and allows for remote management via the Yale Access app from wherever you are. For added convenience, the Wi-Fi Smart Module no longer requires a Wi-Fi Connect Bridge, so it's simpler to set up and doesn't occupy a wall outlet. Yale sells a version of the Assure Lock 2 with the Wi-Fi Smart Module preinstalled (starting at $239.99), or you can purchase it separately for $79.99 and add it to the lock yourself.  For this review, Yale sent me the key-free, touch-screen Assure Lock 2 with Wi-Fi in Satin Nickel ($259.99).  Yale also plans to launch Z-Wave and Matter Smart Modules (priced at $79.99 apiece), which should make it easier to integrate the Assure Lock 2 with your smart home ecosystem of choice. With a Wi-Fi, Z-Wave, or Matter Smart Module, the lock works with Airbnb and a wide variety of third-party security and automation systems, including Amazon Alexa, Google Home, Philips Hue, Ring, and Samsung SmartThings.  The Assure Lock 2 collection fits on doors measuring 1-3/8 to 2-1/4 inches thick with a deadbolt bore hole of 2-1/8 inches (the standard size in the US) or 1-1/2 inches (commonly found in Canada), and a backset of 2-3/8 inches or 2-3/4 inches. Regardless of which model you choose, the lock is powered by four AA batteries, which are included in the box. Bluetooth-only locks should last between six and nine months before you have to swap out the batteries. Adding the Wi-Fi module, however, shortens battery life to just three months, Yale says. Battery life varies depending on use and other factors like Wi-Fi signal strength and the internal friction of your deadbolt. I burned through the batteries in my Wi-Fi-enabled unit in just seven weeks, but I locked and unlocked it dozens of times each day while working on this review.  Unfortunately, the app doesn't display the battery level at all until it drops below 20%. When the batteries do reach that critical level, the Assure Lock 2 warns you via a notification in the app, a red light on the device itself, and an audible sound. I wish it pushed these alerts much sooner. In testing, I got locked out—during a torrential downpour while wearing just socks on my feet—before I received one of the low-battery warnings in the app.  If the batteries die and you get locked out, you can still open the door in one of two ways. With the keyed model, you can simply use the key. With the keyless model, you can use a standard 9V battery to power it from the outside. When I got locked out, I used the latter method (after my kind neighbor drove me to the store) and it worked. You simply place a 9V battery against the terminal on the bottom of the exterior keypad or touch screen, then the display should light up so you can type in your code to get in.   Changing out the batteries is simple: Just slide the battery cover off the interior lock, pull the ribbon to remove the old ones, insert the new ones, and reinstall the cover.  A Yale spokesperson says the majority of buyers go with a keyed model because they want that physical backup for peace of mind. If the battery dies and you aren't carrying the key with you, you'll need to call a locksmith to get back in. The risk of getting locked out is actually lower with the keyless model because you can always grab a 9V battery at the store to power it back up. The choice is up to you, but I went with the key-free model for its more streamlined design and 9V battery backup option.  Most people should be able to install the Assure Lock 2 on most doors themselves with just a standard Phillips-head screwdriver, provided it fits in the place of your previous lock. Adjusting an existing door or prepping a new door for the Assure Lock 2 complicates the process and requires some additional tools, including a drill, a utility knife, a wood mortise chisel, a tape measure, and a level.  As mentioned, if you've changed out a deadbolt lock in the past, you shouldn't have any problems installing the Assure Lock 2. I'm not adept at such tasks, so I enlisted my handy neighbor Ali, who has installed several smart locks of different brands in the past.  Yale includes a written and illustrated installation guide in the box, and the Yale Access app can also guide you through the process. From start to finish, Ali completed the installation of my review unit in about two hours, though he notes he was taking his time.  Installing the optional DoorSense device, which may require drilling a hole with a 5/8-inch paddle bit, as my door did, was the trickiest part. The DoorSense can be installed on wood or metal door frames. In testing, I had no trouble pairing the Assure Lock 2 with its companion Yale Access app. If you're new to the app, you'll need to create an account, then verify both your email and phone number using one-time codes. Next, press Set Up a New Device and then use your phone's camera to scan the QR code on the lock (inside the battery compartment or on the quick start guide).  After the app locates your device, it asks whether you want to view the installation instructions or begin setup. The first step of the process is to name your house in the app and specify which door the lock is on. Next, the app instructs you to open and unlock the door so it can calibrate the device. The calibration only takes a minute or so. Once complete, you should be able to control the lock through the app via Bluetooth. If you opt to use the DoorSense device it will also need to be calibrated, but this step is equally quick and easy.  If you have the Wi-Fi Smart Module, you need to enter your Wi-Fi password in the app to connect the lock to your home network. Note that the Wi-Fi Smart Module only supports the 2.4GHz frequency and doesn't work with 5GHz networks.  During the setup process, the app prompts you to create the four- to eight-digit entry code you'll use to unlock the door. At this point, I created unique codes for myself, my neighbor, and my dog walker. When inviting others to use the lock, you can give them full app access or just a personal entry code. You can pick your own numbers to customize the codes so they're easy to remember.  The Yale Access app is simple and well organized, making it easy to manage your lock. The app features tabs at the bottom that let you quickly check your lock and door's current status, lock and unlock the deadbolt with a tap, view a timeline of lock and door activity, and create and manage access codes.  In the app's Lock Settings menu, you can set up automations like Auto Unlock and Auto Lock, and enable Apple HomeKit so you can control the lock with Siri voice commands and Apple's Home app. Here, you can also enable Smart Alerts to be notified about certain events, like when the door is locked/unlocked manually, locked/unlocked by a specific user, left ajar, auto locked, or keypad locked.  When not in use, the exterior touch screen turns off, so all you see is the Yale logo at the top. To unlock it with the touch screen, you simply tap the Yale logo, enter your code using the numbered buttons on the display, then tap the checkmark button. Neither I nor any of my guests with an access code had any trouble unlocking the door this way. The lock came in handy when I traveled to Berlin to cover the IFA consumer electronics trade show, allowing my dog walker to easily come and go twice a day to take care of my dog Bradley. The Auto Unlock feature, which uses Bluetooth to detect when you are near to automatically unlock the door, is particularly useful—usually I'm still collecting things from my car when I hear it automatically unlocking. With notifications from the Yale Access app enabled, it sends an alert when it's automatically unlocking the door. That said, when used with the Wi-Fi module, the lock sometimes failed to automatically unlock in testing, in which case I had to type in the code to open the door.  As mentioned, you can lock and unlock the Assure Lock 2 with one tap via the Yale Access app on your smartphone or Apple Watch, and this feature worked reliably in testing, but I almost never used it because the other methods are easier.  The Wi-Fi Smart Module is a nice addition, but I wouldn't call it a must-have feature since I spend most of my time at home. For me, the main benefit of the Wi-Fi connection is being able to check the door and lock status wherever I am. With a Wi-Fi connection, you can also remotely lock and unlock the door, monitor the activity feed, and continue to receive notifications when you're out and about. Without a Wi-Fi connection, these features will only work within Bluetooth range. And, as noted above, the Wi-Fi module sometimes interfered with the Bluetooth Auto Unlock feature. In testing, I had no trouble connecting the Assure Lock 2 with several third-party smart home platforms, including Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit, and Google Assistant, via their respective mobile apps. I could then control and monitor the lock with voice commands such as "Siri, lock my front door" via a HomePod mini, "Hey Google, what is the status of my front door" via a Nest Mini, and "Alexa, lock my front door" via an Echo Show 8.  The Yale Assure Lock 2 can elevate the look of your door while adding convenience to your life. Ranging from $159.99 to $259.99, it offers a good variety to meet your needs, preferences, and budget, including keyless and keyed models with physical buttons or a touch screen. All models feature Bluetooth and work with the Yale Assure app and Apple HomeKit, and you have the option to add Wi-Fi connectivity for remote monitoring and control. Battery life for the Wi-Fi version could be better, but we otherwise have few complaints. The competing Ultraloq U-Bolt Pro Wi-Fi ($249) has the edge thanks to its fingerprint scanner, but the Assure Lock 2 is an excellent alternative, especially if minimal aesthetics strike your fancy.  The Yale Assure Lock 2 is a style-minded smart lock that makes it easy to go keyless and manage access to your front door while offering interoperability with many popular third-party smart home platforms. Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I'm PCMag's managing editor for consumer electronics, overseeing an experienced team of analysts covering smart home, home entertainment, wearables, fitness and health tech, and various other product categories. I have been with PCMag for more than 10 years, and in that time have written more than 6,000 articles and reviews for the site. I previously served as an analyst focused on smart home and wearable devices, and before that I was a reporter covering consumer tech news. I'm also a yoga instructor, and have been actively teaching group and private classes for nearly a decade.  Prior to joining PCMag, I was a reporter for SC Magazine, focusing on hackers and computer security. I earned a BS in journalism from West Virginia University, and started my career writing for newspapers in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Read Angela's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.