Proof that a good gift can be affordable and awesome. If you buy something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission. Why Trust Us? Even though it seems too good to be true, there's no longer a need to break the bank when treating someone to a great tech product. Today, there are countless high-quality yet inexpensive tech gifts that cost just $50 or less — including highly-rated products from industry giants. To help you find the perfect cheap tech gift for your special someone, we're constantly reviewing the latest gadgets and accessories and only choose the best for this guide. The affordable tech products we've selected range from workout-ready true wireless earbuds by Soundcore to compact Bluetooth headphones from an iconic audio brand like JBL. We've even included a timelessly cool Casio G-Shock digital watch.  Check out these thoroughly researched and tested cheap tech gifts at impulse-buy price points. Regardless of the occasion and the person you're shopping for, we can all but guarantee that there's a product that will impress them. Anker's Soundcore Life P20i true wireless earbuds belie their price tag, making for an excellent tech gift for any occasion. The buds offer a mix of cool design, a comfy fit, and surprisingly great sound that's infinitely customizable via a companion app. To make things even better, the earbuds have futureproof Bluetooth 5.3 and up to 10 hours of battery life (30 with the storage case). You can order the P20i in black, white, and blue. Chipolo's Card Spot is a thoughtful under-$50 tech gift that will allow the recipients to never worry about the whereabouts of their wallets. The object tracker works with Apple's Find My network so iPhone users can locate it like an AirTag. Its card-like design and size make it compatible with any wallet. The Card Spot's non-replaceable battery can last up to 2 years. Consider this Chipolo Card iteration if you are shopping for an Android user.  The S1 Stealth wallet by Dango Products is an impressive gift option with a minimalist design and a durable DTEX build with a water-resistant finish.The slim accessory has space for up to six cards and some cash, as well as a tiny and convenient pocket for a key or memory card. Thanks to its RFID-blocking tech, the S1 will also protect users from credit card and identity theft. Gadget tinkerers will instantly fall for this precision driver kit by iFixit. Designed by industry experts with many years of experience in tearing down and fixing tech products, it includes 64 precision screwdrivers, a high-quality aluminum screwdriver, and an extension. The drivers are neatly organized in a carrying case with a magnetic lid. A lifetime warranty from iFixit backs the Mako. For $8 more, this electronics prying tool from the same maker will complete the repair kit while keeping your spending below $50. This sleek and compact battery pack is gift-worthy since it can fully charge most smartphones with power to spare. And thanks to a pair of USB-C ports and a USB-A connector, the accessory can also power up other gadgets they own, like, say, a pair of wireless headphones or earbuds. Available in black or white, the product’s durable housing has a textured finish and a battery indicator. This beautiful cubic pot by Oakywood — a Poland-based maker of awesome tech, desk, and home accessories — is a memorable gift that deserves a spot on anyone’s desk. It will allow recipients to organize writing instruments, stylus pens for their go-to devices, or other small gadgets. Its steel insert also makes it a great home for small succulents.  Every cubic is handcrafted using genuine oak or walnut. The oak version is available with a natural finish or in black. The Sony WI-C310 wireless neckband earbuds are a stellar sub-$50 audio gift for anyone needing a sound upgrade. The earbuds' app-customizable sound is the best for the money. Their performance during calls is excellent, too. Available in black, white, or blue, the water-resistant buds also have a seamlessly comfy fit and long battery life. This insanely affordable mini drone by Holy Stone is a great gift option for beginners. It has a clever design with protection shells around its rotors, the ability to perform a host of in-flight tricks, and around 20 minutes of flight time per charge. It comes bundled with an intuitive controller and a trio of batteries. The all-new Apple AirTag tracker is a useful cheap tech gift and will help the recipient keep track of keys, bags, or any other item it's attached to. It has a water-resistant design, a replaceable battery that can last over a year, and a rich selection of cool accessories for protecting and personalizing it Best of all, they double as reliable luggage trackers! The AGPTEK A19X has a curved design and a stellar set of features that defy its under-$50 sticker, making it a superb gift for digital music enthusiasts.  Despite its impulse-buy price tag, the gadget offers 32GB of expandable storage, futureproof Bluetooth 5.0 wireless connectivity, onboard FM radio, and up to 48 hours of battery life.You can grab one in black or light blue. More: The Best MP3 Players Worth Your Attention The reasonably priced PhoneSoap Basic UV sanitizer is a thoughtful tech gift, especially considering our reality. The product’s powerful UV-C bulbs can eliminate bacteria and germs from the recipient’s gadgets and other everyday items in about 10 minutes. You can order the PhoneSoap Basic in black or white. It comes bundled with a USB cord. More: UV Sanitizers We Like The Casio G-Shock DW5600 digital watch is one of the coolest cheap tech gifts for an avid gearhead. The lightweight and rugged timepiece is a remake of Casio's iconic, first-ever G-Shock that debuted almost four decades ago. It's waterproof up to 200 meters and has a feature-packed digital movement. With the iPhone 15 and 15 Pro being the latest high-profile gadgets to have it on board, joining the iPad, the Mac, and their Android rivals, among many other gadgets, USB-C is undeniably the connector of the future. That's why these wired earbuds by MEE Audio are an amazing gift for users of such devices. Their good sound, comfy fit with around-ear hooks, IPX5 rating for water resistance, and three-button remote make them great for everyday use. You can order the buds with clear or black housings — I'd go for the former because it makes them look a lot more expensive. Every set comes with a stylish storage case. The Bellroy classic pouch is a great gift that will neatly store and organize the recipient’s charging cables, wireless earbuds, battery packs, and other small gadgets and daily essentials. Its pockets and compartments include one with a handy magnetic closure. Bellroy has crafted the pouch from eco-friendly fabric sourced from recycled nylon or bottles, and each rock a sturdy metal zipper. You can order the product in several colors. More: The Best Tech Pouches This super-fast wireless charger by Spigen is a fantastic sub-$50 tech gift for any smartphone user. With a maximum power output of 15 watts, the compact accessory can rapidly charge an iPhone and compatible Android smartphones. The sleek gadget has a USB-C connector, a bundled cable, and a 2-year warranty. It lacks a wall adapter, but there are plenty of cheap ones if you want to include it. Today’s top-shelf smartphones don’t have a charging adapter in their box, making this USB-C charger by Anker an amazing (and useful) gift for everyone on your list. With a sticker that hovers around $20, the minuscule accessory will reliably (and rapidly) charge an iPhone or Android, as well as a tablet. Available in five colors (black, white, blue, green, and lavender), the Nano Pro will also match the recipient’s phone. Its plug retracts for easy storage. Made from sustainably sourced genuine leather, this Nomad case is a great cheap tech gift that will instantly make the recipient’s phone nicer to interact with. It will develop a unique patina over time, too. You can order it in black, brown, tan, and a natural leather finish. The impressively slim accessory can guard an iPhone against 10-foot drops. It’s fully MagSafe compatible, and its button covers have excellent tactility. You can order the case for the entire iPhone 15, iPhone 14, and iPhone 13 lineup, as well as for the iPhone SE. More: How to Pick the Right iPhone for Your Needs and Budget The TP-Link Tapo 2K is a fantastic gift option whose versatility will bring welcome peace of mind to the recipients while they are away from home. The accessory can stream and record 2K video (that’s sharper than Full HD), including in the dark. It can rotate 360 degrees and tilt up and down, so it’s also great for keeping tabs on pets.  We like that the Tapo 2K can send alerts if it detects motion or sound. Its onboard siren is yet another tool that will help its users worry less about leaving home. More: The Best Wireless Home Security Cameras The Amazfit Band 7 fitness tracker is a tremendous under-$50 gift because it has design and hardware features that belong in a higher price category. It packs a sophisticated sensor that continuously measures heart rate and blood oxygen levels. The affordable gadget can track more than 100 activities and workouts and keep tabs on the user’s stress and sleep patterns.  Remarkably, the Band 7 packs a sharp and vibrant AMOLED display that makes it intuitive to use. It’s fully waterproof and capable of delivering up to 18 days of use between charges. The Grovemade matte desk pad is a great tech gift to upgrade the recipient’s workspace. Available in black or blue, the accessory is made using natural linoleum and cork, so it is easy to keep clean and enjoyable to interact with. Its textured surface is excellent for using a wired or wireless mouse. More: The Best Desk Pads for Your Home or Office Review: Why Nez Is My Go-to Natural Deodorant Best Housewarming Gifts The 48 Best Gifts for Sisters 2024 40+ Sweet Gifts for the Bakers in Your Life 58 Gifts For Your Brother That He Actually Wants Meet the Newest Halloween Squishmallows! The Best Gifts for Siblings 42 Baby Shower Gift Ideas  30 Gifts for Coffee Lovers Who Are Super Picky 40 of the Best Gifts for Book Lovers  21 Best Groomsmen Gift Ideas 35 Best Stepdad Gifts That Show How Much Love Him  A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.