Sign up to receive the TV WEEK e-Newsletter and offers we choose to share with you straight to your inbox  Disclaimer: By joining, you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms of Use FOLLOW US: There’s plenty of Christmas cheer in the air when TV WEEK enjoys a day of fun with the cast of Home and Away. There’s music, footy tackles and plenty of summer shenanigans to get us into the spirit.  But for Sophie Dillman and Patrick O’Connor, the countdown to a family reunion is the best gift they could ask for. The real-life couple, who are both from Queensland and moved to Sydney for their roles in H&A, explain that the distance can be difficult at times, but it’s as if no time has passed. ”It’s such a great time to be able to spend time with family around Christmas – lots of food, presents and fun”, Patrick, who plays River Boy Dean Thompson, says. ”Hopefully, the rain holds off this year!” Sophie and Patrick say they’re very different to their characters, but have learnt a lot from them. Sophie, who plays Ziggy Astoni, adds that she’s often scrambling last-minute before the break.  ”I won’t lie, I don’t like the idea that everyone has to rush to catch up before Christmas. It’s a stressful and expensive time. However, seeing everyone is wonderful,” she says with a laugh. H&A fans were thrilled this season when Dean and Ziggy, who are also a couple, announced there was a baby on the way. And while Sophie isn’t ready for children just yet, she thoroughly enjoyed getting to play it out on screen. It can be daunting to get it right, but the trust Sophie and Patrick share allows them the confidence. For Sophie Dillman and Patrick O’Connor, the countdown to a family reunion is the best gift they could ask for. ”We can ask anything of each other and know we will always have each other’s backs,” Sophie says. Patrick adds, ”’I think the way Dean and Ziggy view having their first child is something a lot of people will be able to relate to. The lightness and comedy of their way of having a baby on the way has been enjoyable to be a part of.”’ Sophie and Patrick say they’re very different to their characters, but have learnt a lot from them. ”Paddy definitely isn’t a criminal – and I’m way too impatient to be a mechanic!” Sophie says.  ”I admire a lot of Ziggy and Dean’s qualities: their passion, loyalty and joy in the simple things. I’m trying to work to embrace more of those qualities in myself.” Off-screen, it’s been just as busy a year for the couple – they both turned 30 and took off on a Middle Eastern adventure to Qatar.  ”After Qatar, we went to the Seychelles,” Paddy says. ”Sitting by the beach, snorkeling and sipping on Aperol Spritz – what more could you ask for?” Patrick says 2023 could be the couple’s best yet. But while Sophie is looking forward to her sister’s upcoming wedding, Patrick craves a slower pace. ”I’m going to try to slow down a bit,” he says. “The past few years have been so busy. Hopefully, it can be a time to focus more on being present and enjoying the finer things of life.” Australia’s biggest and greatest TV guide, launched in 1957 and has become a powerhouse in print and digital. As a trusted source of information, TV WEEK covers all the latest in television and film. The magazine features a comprehensive TV guide, industry news, spoilers, celebrity interviews, reality tv and streaming. Let TV WEEK end the mindless scrolling and guide you to your next binge-worthy watch. 
 Sign up to receive the TV WEEK e-Newsletter and offers we choose to share with you straight to your inbox  Disclaimer: By joining, you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms of Use FOLLOW US: Huge savings plus FREE home delivery 
					© 2024 Are Media Pty Ltd				 
					Are Media acknowledges the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia. We pay our respects to Elders past and present. All products are independently selected, tested or recommended by our team of experts. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Are Media and its brands may have generated text partially using generative AI. Upon generating draft language, our editors review, edit, and revise it to their own liking. We take ultimate responsibility for the content of our publications.				