Home and Away star Sophie Dillman (Ziggy Astoni) is rumoured to be leaving the soap next year, and although she hasn’t confirmed anything herself, there are many signs pointing to her departure. Both Sophie and her boyfriend Patrick O’Connor (Dean Thompson) have made drastic changes to their hair, and Lynne McGranger (Irene Roberts) appeared to confirm their exit in an Instagram comment. The star sat down for a chat with Yahoo Lifestyle and shared her hopes for 2023 and the future. While some celebrities are against setting New Year’s resolutions, it’s a tradition that Sophie likes to keep. Her resolution for 2023 is simple, but something that could make a big impact on her life. “My New Year’s resolution is to find joy. I think next year I want to really focus on being happy, doing things that I love and doing things for myself,” she tells us. RELATED: Home and Away's Sophie Dillman on Patrick's new look: 'Original' Home and Away's Tammin Sursok praised for 'honest' parenting story Home and Away's Sophie Dillman debuts dramatic transformation The bubbly Queenslander says that it sounds “a bit selfish”, but with how hard she has worked on Home and Away through the pandemic, she needs some time to recharge. “After working so hard for so many years, I want to focus on me for a bit,” she says, before adding that she still plans to continue working, but doesn’t elaborate further. The star is keeping her lips tightly sealed about her rumoured exit, but fans have claimed to see Ziggy and Dean filming a farewell while out on Palm Beach. This comes after fans went wild over the first look at Ziggy and Dean’s baby in a new promo. The show teased “new beginnings” for the fan-favourite couple, and gave viewers a look at how Ziggy handles going into labour. “Hello! Pregnant woman, in labour!” Ziggy is seen yelling at Dean, before the new parents are shown in the hospital looking at their newborn with love. In a sweet moment, Dean declares his love for Ziggy as the couple cuddle their new bundle of joy. SHOP: Shoppers lose it over period undies: 'Comfiest thing I've ever worn' The 'miracle' serum for longer lashes and fuller brows: 'Actually works' 'Life-changing' secret to getting your booty in shape: 'So happy' While the promo also teased the drama surrounding whether or not Felicity Newman (Jacqui Purvis) would survive a terrible car crash, fans only had eyes for Ziggy and Dean’s baby. “Omg not me crying cause Dean and Ziggy’s baby [is] so cute,” one fan gushed. “Oh my goodness that baby looks like Dean lol,” added another. “So excited does that mean Ziggy [and] Dean are having a boy or girl??” a third asked. “Nice to see Ziggy actually made it to the hospital in Summer Bay,” quipped another. Never miss a thing. Sign up to Yahoo Lifestyle’s daily newsletter. Or if you have a story idea, email us at lifestyle.tips@yahooinc.com. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... The answer may not be what you’re expecting. The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Souths are set to come down hard on Latrell Mitchell and demand change. Read more here. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. Collingwood pipped Brisbane to keep their finals hopes alive. Read more here. The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. A club legend says a big call needs to be made on the Eels captain. More here. Brwa Shorsh shoved a man onto the tracks for ‘revenge’ because he gave him a ‘dirty look’ "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married." Retired Staff Sgt. Ryan Marti enlisted in the Army National Guard before he even graduated high school, just like his football coach and teacher, future Minnesota governor Tim Walz. Another of Walz’s former students, Lt. Col. Jonathan Jaqua, also joined the Guard after graduating from Mankato West High School in southern Minnesota. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles."