The following undergraduate forms and procedures are used in the College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences. We have updated our procedures for online submission; please follow these guidelines. CLAHS Departmental Contacts for Change of Primary Major, Second Major, or Minor Department Major(s)/Minor(s) Contact Contact’s Email Academy of Transdisciplinary Studies AFST, ABB, DSST, WGS Susan Stinson susans40@vt.edu Apparel, Housing,
and Resource Management CONS, FMD, HOSO, PM, RED, RENV Chelsey Hancock chelseyh@vt.edu English CW, ENGL, LIT, LNGS, PTW Dawn Knight dknight1@vt.edu History AINS, ASIA, HIST, RAS, WAS Heath Furrow hafurrow@vt.edu Human Development and Family Science ABB, CPED, ECDE, HD Sarah Jarrett (CPED and ECDE) Carolyn Ballard (HD) 
sarahjarrett@vt.edu
 raderc@vt.edu International Studies EUTS, IPPL, IREL,
IS, NSFA Jennifer Hanratty jhanratty@vt.edu Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures ARB, CHNS, CLA, CLL, FR, FRBS, GER, ITAL, JPNS, LAT, RUS, SPAN Erin Hale emhale@vt.edu Philosophy PHIL Hannah Wildman Short hwildmanshort@vt.edu Philosophy, Politics, and Economics PPE Heath Furrow hafurrow@vt.edu Political Science PSCI Elizabeth Long etlong@vt.edu Religion and Culture HPS, RLCL Ben Wiley wiley89@vt.edu Science, Technology, and Society Carol Sue Slusser slusserc@vt.edu School of Communication ADV, COMM, HCOM, MJ, PR, SCOM, SMA Kayla Goodwin kaylagoodwin@vt.edu School of Education AGIE, CTED, ELE, ELAE, HSSE, MTHE Sarah Jarrett sarahjarrett@vt.edu School of Public and International Affairs  EPP, SSC Chris LaPlante chrisl@vt.edu Sociology CRI, PSSJ, SOC Rebecca Franklin Heather Hollandsworth rrg@vt.edu heatherdh@vt.edu
 Form submission deadlines are listed on the University Registrar’s Website.
 Students who wish to appeal their academic suspension for reasons other than medical issues should use this form.
 If your appeal is based upon physical, psychiatric or disability/learning disability reasons, you will need a letter of recommendation from the appropriate office, as noted on page one of Schiffert Health Center, Cook Counseling, or Services with Students with Disabilities. To receive such a letter, you will need to complete an academic relief request for an additional probationary term. Academic Appeals Petition (DocuSign) You must submit your appeal by the deadline stated at https://student.advising.vt.edu/degree/academic-appeals.html.  You are strongly encouraged to meet with a member of the advising leadership team prior to submitting your appeal. This meeting should be held at least one week before the appeals meeting date. Email liberalarts@vt.edu to schedule a meeting.  Undergraduate students facing extenuating circumstances that compromise their ability to fulfill academic responsibilities, such as attending classes or completing coursework, for an extended period within a semester, may seek academic relief. Broadly, a student may be eligible for academic relief with a recommendation from an appropriate campus student support entity, such as the Dean of Students Office, Cook Counseling Center, Schiffert Health Center, Services for Students with Disabilities, and the Office for Equity and Accessibility, to support the student’s need for relief.  Academic relief typically entails a complete withdrawal from all courses in a semester, with these courses being indicated on the transcript as "WP" (Withdrawal, exception). Call 540-231-6770 or email liberalarts@vt.edu to setup an appointment to discuss your academic relief request with a member of the advising leadership team for the Dean's Office. Students who believe they may qualify for academic relief can access the online portal to initiate the process. You will be notified of a successful submission and of the final outcome. You may also check the statusa of your request by accessing the online portal. Call 540-231-6770 or email liberalarts@vt.edu to setup an appointment to discuss your academic relief request with a member of the advising leadership team for the Dean's Office.
 Please read all information and use the appropriate form for Authorization to Take Courses Elsewhere.  To change an option within your major, please contact your department. Request to Add, Drop or Change an Option in Career and Technical Education (CTE) (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Students with primary and/or secondary majors in Career and Technical Education may use this form to make any changes to their major concentration. Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Request to Add, Drop, or Change an Option in English (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Students with primary and/or secondary majors in English may use this form to make any changes to their major concentration. Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Request to Add, Drop, or Change an Option in History (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Students with primary and/or secondary majors in History may use this form to make any changes to their major concentration. Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Request to Add, Drop, or Change an Option in Political Science (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Students with primary and/or secondary majors in Political Science may use this form to make any changes to their major concentration. Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Request to Change Minor(s) (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here.
 Use this form to add or drop a minor(s) only. Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Note to new students: You do NOT need to have a GPA yet to add a minor. Change of Primary Major  There are three periods annually when you can change your major through Hokie Spa. You can find the Change of Major Schedule here. All CLAHS majors are non-restricted, meaning there are no specific entrance requirements and access is not restricted. CLAHS advisors are assigned by major, so once you make the change, your advisor may change as well. Request to Change Second Major to Primary Major (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. This form will be accepted anytime that a primary or second major within the College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences is changing order in the student’s academic record.  Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. If you are considering a major in the School of Communication: Review the Change of Major Requirements and attend an Explore Communication information session.  Request to Change Second Major (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here.
 Use this form to add or drop second majors only. This form is not used if your changes involve both the primary major and second major.  Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Note to new students: You do NOT need to have a GPA yet to add a second major. Request to Change Second Major to Primary Major (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. This form will be accepted anytime that a primary or second major within the College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences is changing order in the student’s academic record.  Consult with your academic advisor before requesting changes. Preview the form before opening DocuSign here.
 Students should contact their academic advising office in their department of their primary major for appeal. Financial Reinstatement Form (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. PLEASE NOTE: Adding your courses back does not add you back to Canvas. Talk with your instructors to be added back to your Canvas course sites.   Force-adding is an administrative process that allows the department offering the course to override pre-requisites, capacity, and/or major restrictions during drop/add.  The department offering the course determines if and how force-adding will be completed. Force add requests must be processed by the department offering the course before the add/drop deadline.  After the deadline, see the "Late Add Request" information section. Incomplete (I) Grade Request (DocuSign) Items that students should consider before requesting an Incomplete grade: Items that the instructor should consider before agreeing to an Incomplete grade request:
 Required Signatures:
Student, Instructor, and Department Head Information you will need to fill out the form:
 Request to Change a Course to Pass/Fail or A-F: (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Request to Change Final Exam Time: (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Request to Change Course Credit Hours (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Request to Late Add a Course (DocuSign) Request to Late Drop a Course: (DocuSign link via advisor) The process of substituting courses is considered on a case-by-case basis in individual departments. Talk with your advisor about substitutions. Undergraduate Research & Independent Study Request (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. "W" Grade Request  (DocuSign) Preview the form before opening DocuSign here. Withdrawal/Resignation from Term (Procedures and form)     Liberal Arts and Human Sciences Building
200 Stanger Street
Blacksburg, VA 24061
Phone: 540-231-6779
Fax: 540-231-7157
liberalartsdean@vt.edu  Contact Departments and Schools   Contact College Administration  Student Support Contacts Undergraduate Applicants
Graduate Applicants WHY I SUPPORT THE COLLEGE
 “Students working toward academic degrees in Virginia Tech’s College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences learn to think critically, communicate well, innovate, and collaborate effectively.” — Jeff Rudd ’83 Web Support Get Directions   See All Locations   Contact Virginia Tech   © 2024 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.