Tokyo Electron Ltd yesterday raised its profit outlook for the year after Chinese chipmakers moved up deliveries ahead of a possible crackdown on exports of Japanese production equipment. The Tokyo-based supplier to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (台積電) and Intel Corp lifted its forecast for the year to next month above expectations to ￥580 billion (US$4.4 billion). Some companies in China are accelerating deliveries and investment plans, fearful of not being able to secure equipment as international trade walls rise, Tokyo Electron executives said on an earnings call. Photo: Reuters The company, which competes against Applied Materials Inc, had slashed forecasts in November last year in the wake of US sanctions on advanced chip-related exports. There was a dip in the fourth quarter last year as US chip gear makers were unable to ship to Chinese customers and production was challenged, but the feared cratering in demand did not materialize, Tokyo Electron general manager of finance Hiroshi Kawamoto said. “The equipment industry has entered a new stage for further growth,” Kawamoto said. “We expect a recovery from the second half of 2023 and continued growth from 2024, thanks to rising demand from areas like virtual reality, as well as government support for investments.” The company is closely watched for its reaction to the news that Japan and the Netherlands have agreed to join the US in imposing export controls on advanced semiconductor technology and products to China. Tokyo Electron is one of a handful of suppliers to the global chipmaking industry, providing machinery to fabricate the latest generation of chips. Tokyo Electron, which also announced a three for one stock split, reported ￥114.8 billion operating profit for last quarter, above average analyst estimates of ￥102 billion. Demand for semiconductor production equipment was stronger than expected thanks to orders from foundry makers, the company said. It now expects net sales of semiconductor production equipment of ￥2.12 trillion for the full year, up from a previous forecast of ￥2.05 trillion. “China will remain an important market for Tokyo Electron,” Kawamoto said, adding that the company has no plans to shrink operations in a country it sees as a large market for automotive power chips. “We do not just deal in cutting-edge equipment.” Tokyo Electron and fellow Japanese semiconductor industry players Renesas Electronics Corp, Nikon Corp and Sumco Corp each have a significant proportion of their sales going directly to China, with even more of their business dependent on the market via sales by their customers. Dutch equipment maker ASML Holding NV said at the end of last month that the sanctions would not have a material impact on its earnings this year, despite China perennially being one of the biggest importers of chips and chip technology. Silicon wafer maker Sumco, which also reported earnings yesterday, said that demand from automotive and industrial-use customers remains strong, but the weak smartphone market is likely to yield lower wafer orders this year before recovering next year. The inventory adjustments that have hit the memorychip-making industry hard in the past few months are likely to continue for the time being, Sumco chief executive officer Mayuki Hashimoto said. 
FOPLP PLANS?
                                         The chipmaker said the budget was for fab construction and manufacturing facilities, but did not comment on reports of talks with Innolux                                        Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co’s (TSMC, 台積電) board of directors yesterday approved capital appropriations of US$29.62 billion to install and upgrade the firm’s chip manufacturing process technologies, as well as its advanced and mature packaging technology capacity.
The capital expenditure budget would also be for fab construction and installation of manufacturing facilities, the world’s biggest contract chipmaker said in a statement.
TSMC did not comment on reports that it was in talks with flat-panel display maker Innolux Corp (群創) to acquire an idle plant as it prepares to convert manufacturing equipment into a new chip packaging production line that is to use fan-out                                     

                                                                                Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC, 台積電), yesterday said it has signed an agreement with Innolux Corp (群創) to acquire the flat-panel display maker’s plant in Tainan for NT$17.14 billion (US$530.6 million) amid supply constraints of its advanced packaging capacity constraints. 
TSMC plans to use the plant, including buildings and manufacturing facilities, for future operations, the world’s biggest foundry service provider said in a filing with the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 
The chipmaker did not elaborate on whether it would convert the plant into a new panel-level packaging factory, or expand its advanced packaging chip-on-wafer-on-substrate (CoWoS) capacity.
The chipmaker "is working whatever it                                     

                                                                                The world’s biggest steel producer sounded the alarm about a crisis in China that carries the potential to send global shock waves, warning of a deeper industry downturn than major events in 2008 and 2015.
Conditions in China are like a “harsh winter” that would be “longer, colder and more difficult to endure than we expected,” China Baowu Steel Group Corp (寶武鋼鐵集團) chairman Hu Wangming (胡望明) told staff at the company’s half-year meeting.
For commodities including steel, the warning from Baowu underscores risks to demand and prices, as well as what ArcelorMittal SA, the No. 2 firm in the industry, called an                                     

                                                                                As monsoon rains were about to break over Pakistan, 14-year-old Shamila and her 13-year-old sister Amina were married off in exchange for money, a decision their parents made to help the family survive the threat of floods.
“I was happy to hear I was getting married... I thought my life would become easier,” Shamila said after her wedding to a man twice her age in hope of a more prosperous life. “But I have nothing more, and with the rain, I fear I will have even less, if that is possible.”
Pakistan’s high rate of marriages for underage girls had been inching                                    