(Bloomberg) -- Emmanuel Macron’s latest attempt to cast the European Union as a balancing power between the US and China will be tested this week as he seeks to enlist support from the Netherlands. Most Read from Bloomberg Katie Cotton, Guardian of the Apple Brand for 18 Years, Dies Twitter Company ‘No Longer Exists,’ Is Now Part of Musk’s X Elizabeth Holmes Will Have to Wait Out Her Appeal in Prison Tumbling Money Supply Alarms Economists Who Foresaw Inflation Inflation Data Will Shatter the Stock Market Calm, Goldman Partner Warns The 45-year-old president will arrive in Amsterdam on Tuesday for the first state visit of a French leader in 23 years and plans to make the case for more joint EU spending, closer control over European supplies of technology and industrial goods and, crucially, a degree of skepticism about relations with the US. But his visit risks being overshadowed by the fallout from last week’s visit to Beijing, where he sought to build bridges with President Xi Jinping and mark his independence from Washington. Macron will deliver a speech on economic sovereignty at the Nexus Institute in The Hague on Tuesday afternoon in which he will appeal to European leaders not to be naive about how far they can rely on the US, according to a French official. Macron has been pushing for a more assertive European foreign policy with closer integration and more common spending since he took power six years ago, reflecting a long-standing French approach that began with Charles De Gaulle in the 1960s. His supporters argue that the war in Ukraine has vindicated his longstanding call for European “strategic autonomy.” His critics say that the conflict has instead shown that the EU is still unable to police its own backyard without Washington’s help and it’s primarily US aid that helped Kyiv fight the Russian invasion. In China, he suggested that the EU should avoid getting dragged into any potential confrontation between Beijing and Washington, provoking a furious response from some US lawmakers, including Marco Rubio, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee. An official in Macron’s office said Wednesday that Macron says France isn’t equidistant between the US, an ally with whom Paris shares common values, and China — a partner, a competitor and a systemic rival. The official added that the best way to avoid confrontation was to engage with Beijing. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has regularly opposed Macron’s European proposals, advocating instead strong cooperation with the US and a more conservative approach to fiscal policy. The Netherlands has, all the same, provided more military aid to Ukraine, despite having a much smaller economy. The relationship between France and the Netherlands hit trouble in 2019 when the Dutch government increased its stake in the Franco-Dutch carrier Air France-KLM without warning officials in Paris. Back then, Macron’s government accused Rutte’s of acting like a market raider. Defense Deal In 2020, Rutte forced Macron to scale back his plans for joint EU funding plan to help the continent recover from the Covid-19 pandemic. But officials from both countries say that relations have improved and the two countries are aiming to seal a defense agreement next year. Nevertheless, the differences that underpinned the dispute over the recovery fund are likely to resurface as the leaders discuss their response to a massive US program to subsidize clean technology. In response to the European Commission’s decision to repurpose some of that money as green subsidies to compete with the US, France is pushing for the EU to come up with more common funds, according to the official who asked not to be identified in line with French government rules. Paris is arguing that without more common financing businesses could shift investment from the EU to the US to take advantage of Biden’s aid program and cheaper energy. Macron’s government plans to formulate its proposals around the summer, but wants to proceed slowly in order to bring along skeptics like the Netherlands and, perhaps most importantly, Germany, the official said. How to deal with China and how to respond to US demands is also likely to come up repeatedly during Macron’s trip, which also includes a meeting with Peter Wennink, the chief executive officer of ASML Holding NV, a Dutch firm that makes cutting edge equipment for semiconductor companies. Rutte’s government is tightening restrictions on the sale of ASML machinery to China, following pressure from Washington. During the visit, Macron aims to clinch a deal to boost Franco-Dutch cooperation and homegrown tech solutions. He will attend a round table on technology and innovation along with representatives of French semiconductor company StMicroelectronics NV, which works with ASML, and technology provider Atos SE. --With assistance from Cagan Koc. (Adds Elysee comment in seventh paragraph) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek A Runner’s Murder in Kenya Opens a Window Into Violence Against Women The Business of … Death What to Do With Your Money—and Your Life—in a Wild New World The Fight Over the Abortion Pill Is Just Getting Started Scaramucci’s SkyBridge Capital Was Spiraling, and Then Came FTX ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. The iconic star announced that he has been forced to step down from the band due to health reasons - just a few years after he opened up about his hearing condition But it's not down to hot weather UK weather maps are warning Brits to get ready to melt in a 120-hour heatwave that will scorch the country. The latest heat maps for the UK are beginning to turn red with the warm weather set to hit the nation Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update When the actress and singer Marianne Faithfull appeared opposite the late actor Alain Delon in the 1968 erotic drama The Girl On A Motorcycle, she had the highest praise for him. “We think alike in a lot of ways and he’s a totally dedicated actor,” she said. “He helped me a lot through his ability to ignore outside things when he’s working.” There is a famous contemporary picture of the two of them laughing together, apparently completely wrapped up in one another, while Faithfull’s boyfriend Mi Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: A language barrier between artist and client led to disaster for a New York City man, who can’t get the offending ink lasered off due to the moles covering his back Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. A mother has been 'stabbed to death by her own son' in a horror knife attack that also left his sister and father fighting for their lives, it was claimed today (Mon). Three forensic tents have been erected after the rampage in Barnard Road in Gorton, a suburb of Manchester. Police said a woman, 43, has died from her injuries while a 64-year-old man and a 17-year-old girl were today (Mon) in hospital in a critical condtion. A man, 22, has been held on suspicion of murder and is to be quizzed by detectives. Police confirmed early indication "suggests the suspect was known to the victims" and it was being treated as an isolated incident. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Sky Sports pundit and Manchester United legend Gary Neville was approached by a group of construction workers as he prepared for his return to Monday Night Football Friends of Prince William and Kate Middleton have told the Daily Beast that William took offense at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle publicly referring to his wife as Kate rather than Catherine, “even when they were sending her get-well-soon messages after her cancer diagnosis.”The apparent reluctance on Harry and Meghan’s part to call the Princess of Wales by her preferred name was “an entirely unnecessary and deliberate irritation” the friend said, and may have contributed to William and Kate’s Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. At least two people were killed after Donald Trump on Monday claimed Kamala Harris is refusing to take part in a presidential debate on Fox News which was being considered for next month.“Comrade Kamala Harris has just informed us that she will NOT do the FoxNews Debate on September 4th,” the former president wrote on his Truth Social platform. Instead, Trump said he’s agreed to do a “Tele-Town Hall, anchored by Sean Hannity, for Fox” in Pennsylvania.Harris’ campaign has not confirmed it has declined to go ahead with the debate, but Guinness is Good for You is one of the most famous advertising campaigns in history, but away from the slogans and billboards, it appears there could have been a grain of truth in the suggestion that everyone’s favourite stout does something positive for the body. Joe Biden, Raphael Warnock, Hillary Clinton and more all dunked on the former president during their speeches on Monday night. A model steam train firm has ceased production after 88 years because of anti-terror “red tape” banning a material used in its fuel tablets.