Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Huawei may have filed a patent, but ASML investors shouldn't be worried. Sometimes investing in the companies that supply the tools necessary to make a product is a better bet than investing in the company making the product. For the chip world, ASML Holdings (ASML 1.58%) is the only (more on that in a bit) company that provides the machines necessary to make chips with the most transistors possible. However, a recent patent application from Chinese tech giant Huawei threatens ASML's monopoly. Is this a potential sell signal? Or is ASML still an investible company? Let's find out. ASML's extreme ultraviolet (EUV) machines allow users to etch the world's smallest transistors on a chip. If you've heard of a 7nm (nanometer), 5nm, or 3nm chip, it was made using ASML's machines. ASML has very few customers, with only companies like Samsung, Taiwan Semiconductor, and Intel buying its products.  Image source: ASML Huawei potentially entering the EUV game is a problem for ASML's technological monopoly. However, filing for a patent and producing EUV machines aren't the same. There is still plenty of time before Huawei's machines are up and running. Plus, given how exclusive this technology is, it's unlikely the Chinese government will let it be sold to foreign companies -- it wants foreign companies to buy from Chinese chipmakers. The real problem comes from Huawei being able to make these tiny chips, which might hurt ASML's customers if they have to compete with a Chinese product. Still, it's a risk investors must understand, although the threat is still currently small. If ASML can maintain its superiority, its impressive financials will combine to make it an excellent investment. EUV machines aren't cheap. One estimate pegs the cost of an EUV machine at around $150 million a piece, and they are about as large as a school bus. As a result, ASML's revenue can be quite chunky, because producing a handful of extra machines in a quarter could cause it to miss estimates. To understand how the business is doing, it's worth looking at a metric like net bookings (the amount from sales orders that have been accepted). In Q3, this rose to 8.9 billion euros, a new record.  ASML is also quite profitable, generating 1.7 billion euros in net income from 5.8 billion euros in sales -- a 28% margin. Its fantastic margin profile allows ASML to generate impressive amounts of cash. Over the past 12 months, ASML had free cash flow of $9.6 billion, which allows it to repurchase its stock. At its investor relations day in November, ASML announced a new repurchase program to buy back 12 billion euros' worth of stock (about 5% of its market cap). The following chart shows the effect of these repurchases over the past five years.  ASML Shares Outstanding data by YCharts This program isn't as aggressive as some companies', but it's better than nothing. However, my biggest indicator of what makes ASML a buy is its free-cash-flow yield. Free-cash-flow yield is a metric that relates how much free cash flow a company generates in relation to its market cap, much like a dividend yield. With ASML yielding 4.4%, it's higher than a 10-year Treasury note. This is one indication that the stock is currently undervalued. With ASML near its decade-high free-cash-flow yield, I'd say now is a great time to take a position in ASML. While Huawei may be getting closer, ASML has a massive head start. Moreover, with the stock at a reasonable valuation and with a record backlog of new business, buying ASML is a top way to invest in the chip space without the cyclicality of chipmakers. Keithen Drury has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends ASML, Intel, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing. The Motley Fool recommends the following options: long January 2023 $57.50 calls on Intel, long January 2025 $45 calls on Intel, and short January 2025 $45 puts on Intel. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.