The IT and consulting giant is creating new jobs at its Newcastle Helix office Get all the latest business news from the North East straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get all the latest business news from the North East straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Canadian IT and consulting giant CGI has officially opened a base at Newcastle Helix amid moves to grow its UK presence. The company last year announced plans to create more than 700 new jobs across the UK by investing in new offices around the UK, adding to the 5,000-plus people it already employs around the country. The IT and business consulting services firm said the investment in the region further supports its commitment to providing career opportunities for those in the region, working in partnership with NewcastleGateshead Initiative (NGI), which the firm recently joined. The firm, which launched in 1976 and is now listed on the New York and Toronto stock exchanges, delivers digital transformation strategies to public and private sector organisations. It will work to strengthen relationships with universities through NGI, to build a strong pipeline of homegrown talent. Read more: Construction starts on 1,000-job battery plant for Envision AESC NGI, which markets Newcastle and Gateshead on a national and international stage as a great place to set up North East bases, said its partnership with CGI is focussed on providing local people with high-value digital roles that allow them to continue living and working in the North-East. CGI bosses said the new office allows employees access to a well-located working environment, while also giving them the chance to collaborate with like-minded businesses, universities and the local authority. Paul Buxton, senior vice president of consulting services at CGI in the UK, said: “Through this new office, we can help drive substantial growth in the North East of England, a region in which we have long supported and sourced talent from. We are pleased to be part of this leading innovation hub, with our new office demonstrating our commitment to the North East, which promotes itself as a world-class place to live, work, learn and visit. We look forward to continuing to work with NGI to help build a prosperous future for Newcastle, Gateshead and surrounding areas.” Sarah Green, CEO of NGI, said: “CGI is a valued strategic partner of ours, working closely with local authorities, universities and private-sector organisations with a shared ambition to see the region thrive through their business development and talent attraction. It is great to have a newcomer to the region so engaged and committed to achieving positive social impact, and we look forward to continued collaboration on key priorities for the North East.” Invest Newcastle’s digital and tech lead Dawn Dunn added: “It’s great to see CGI put down roots in Newcastle at the iconic Catalyst building on Newcastle Helix. As a truly global tech consultancy, they’re a fantastic asset to the sector ecosystem in the North East with a commitment to creating careers and opportunities for people here, we look forward to supporting their growth and impact in the region.” Like this story? Go  HERE  to sign up for North East business newsletters READ NEXT Jobs lost as Mold Systems in County Durham collapses for second time Redde Northgate hails gains across its group 