Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		 “Send me your materials.” Résumé? Curriculum vitae? Biography? What should executive-level candidates forward when recruiters make this request? Lesson one for executive job search: In this situation feel free to reply, “What do you prefer?” For the moment, the most adaptable and widely used document is your résumé, so that’s a good place to start. Once you have that organized, you can improve your LinkedIn profile, draft a one-page bio, and consider whether a CV is needed. Here are some tips to help you get prepared. If you’re focused on a C-suite position, that is, a leadership position with the word “chief” in the title, your résumé needs to promote your “C” qualities. For example, CFOs (chief financial officer) are long past the days of entering financial data or developing quarterly reports. Those skills are assumed but unlikely to be used — which means they don’t need to be highlighted. If a CFO isn’t going to showcase accounting skills and a CTO (chief technology officer) isn’t going to brag about software packages, what are they going to describe instead? Leadership. Plain and simple, executives are hired to lead. They must also know their discipline, of course, but they’re unlikely to be hired based on that knowledge alone. To position yourself as an executive or high-level director, follow these résumé strategies: 1. Lead with an Executive Summary: Also called a Professional Profile, this short synopsis provides your leadership experience and related training while setting the tone for the résumé. 2. Highlight key leadership skills: Some categories might include: Strategic planning, change management, diversity and inclusion, financial oversight, team building, and communication. Think about your own leadership skills, and then create a résumé category to call them out with some detail provided. 3. Demonstrate expertise in your discipline and industry: Back to our CFO or CTO example — what are they specifically good at in their disciplines or industries? Examples could include corporate tax strategies, mergers, cyber security, etc. Either candidate might be well-versed in an industry, such as hospitality or retail. Create another résumé category to capture these points, making it easier for employers and recruiters to see your strengths. 4. Keep job descriptions short: Focus on numbers and high-level projects rather than daily tasks. For example, “Led 30+ accounting team members in preparing / reviewing financials for six corporate acquisitions over two years, totaling $3.6B in value.” The goal is to provide a scope of your capabilities, not an exhaustive litany of the steps involved. 5. Consider a Projects section: If our CTO masterminded an enterprisewide technology changeover, that might merit its own paragraph. Consider major projects you led to see if any fit this concept. 6. Include community engagement: Have you led fundraising committees or served on a nonprofit board? Perhaps you helped your house of worship improve their building with a new kitchen. The higher the level of your community involvement, the more important it is to include on your résumé. In most fields, that answer will be no. The CV, or curriculum vitae, is a traditional tool used by physicians, academics, attorneys and others with letters after their names (MD, PhD, etc.). It’s generally used when moving from one “like” position to the next — from being a doctor in one hospital to being a doctor in another hospital, for example. But if this doctor is now applying to be a hospital executive, the hiring committee might be calling for a CV. If so, the best strategy is to modify the traditional CV format with some of the elements used for executive résumés. Yes, you need a LinkedIn profile. It’s one of the first places recruiters will check, either on a blind search for candidates, or as part of their due diligence after receiving your résumé. One strategy is to modify your LinkedIn as a mirror of your résumé, by including elements from your leadership and expertise categories in the About section of the LinkedIn profile. Maybe, and maybe not. An executive bio can be useful in your candidate package, describing you with more warmth and personality than your other materials can do. It’s usually just a few paragraphs with a photo, but it needs to feel professional to be effective. Now that you know more about the materials used in executive job search, you can get started on creating yours. For more background on executive job search, check my columns from the last two weeks on strategies for identifying and finding high-level roles. Next week we’ll complete the series with leadership books that have crossed my desk recently.Related Articles
Business |  

			Working Strategies: On ‘masters’ usage; remembering a friend		


Business |  

			Working Strategies: Settling in and succeeding in your new career		


Business |  

			Working Strategies: Retirement Part 2: Actually making the decision		


Business |  

			Working Strategies: Reviewing the retirement decision		


Business |  

			Working Strategies: Are we done with cover letters?		

 Amy Lindgren owns a career consulting firm in St. Paul. She can be reached at alindgren@prototypecareerservice.com. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group