Georgia should eliminate general election runoffs, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) said on Wednesday, a little over a week after Sen. Raphael Warnock won a runoff against GOP nominee Herschel Walker. “We’re also one of the only states that always seems to have a runoff,” Raffensperger said in a statement. “I’m calling on the General Assembly to visit the topic of the General Election Runoff and consider reforms.” Runoff elections are triggered when no candidate wins over 50% percent of the vote in the general election. The runoff race between the top two candidates happens four weeks later. The candidate who gets the most votes wins. Louisiana is the only other state to hold general election runoffs. Raffensperger pointed out the toll that administering runoffs takes on election workers over the four-week period, which includes Thanksgiving. “No one wants to be dealing with politics in the middle of their family holiday,” he said. “It’s even tougher on the counties who had a difficult time completing all of their deadlines, an election audit and executing a runoff in a four-week time period.” The time between the general election and a runoff contest was reduced from nine weeks to four weeks under a law signed last year by Gov. Brian Kemp (R). Kemp has not weighed in on Raffensperger’s proposal. Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger is calling on the Georgia General Assembly to eliminate General Election Runoffs in the state. pic.twitter.com/xoXsB0ZbSr — Dianne Gallagher (@DianneG) December 14, 2022 Runoff elections have been controversial, with critics pointing to the segregationist origins of the policy that has been in place since the 1960s. Runoffs originally aimed to restrict the power of Black voters in elections. The state’s GOP-led General Assembly is due to meet again in January. Earlier this month, Warnock said he won the runoff despite voter suppression. “Let me be clear: The fact that millions of Georgians endured hours in lines, and were willing to spend hours in line — lines that wrapped around buildings and went on for blocks, lines in the cold, lines in the rain — is most certainly not a sign voter suppression does not exist,” Warnock said. Election organizers cited long lines and missing ballots, among other problems, while Republican state officials claimed the runoff was smooth. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.