Tuesday August 20, 2024  On the occasion of the one-year anniversary of the beginning of the operation, a resolution calling for a peace settlement and condemnation of the Russian special military operation in Ukraine is anticipated to be put to a vote by the UN General Assembly, UN sources told TASS on Saturday. The proposal is based on what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calls a peace formula. Deliberations are scheduled for 23 February, Russian news agency TASS has reported.  The UN General Assembly meeting that will discuss Ukraine is anticipated to include participation from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba, EU Chief Diplomat Josep Borrell, and a few other European Foreign Ministers. In addition, the UN Security Council plans to hold a meeting of ministers on the situation in Ukraine on 24 February, which will be attended by Blinken, Borrell, Kuleba and the foreign ministers of France, Germany and other EU member countries or their deputies. Zelenskyy was supposed to attend the UN Security Council meeting, but that isn't likely to happen now that US President Joe Biden is scheduled to travel to Europe. The sources informed TASS that some elements are classified for security reasons and that the plans for the activities on 23-24 February could possibly change. Zelenskyy put forward a 10-point peace plan at a recent G20 meeting. Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the Kremlin was unaware that Ukraine allegedly prepared a peace plan, and that Zelenskyy's statements ignored the present-day reality.  Russian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Maria Zakharova said the proposal by the Kiev regime to hold a peace summit in the UN was a "nonsensical idea" and a "PR stunt" by Washington, reports TASS. Russia envoy to the UN Vasily Nebenzya said Zelenskyy's peace initiatives are a mockery of the notion of a peace plan.   UN General Assembly / Russia-Ukraine While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments. The Business Standard Main Office -4/A, Eskaton Garden, Dhaka- 1000 Phone: +8801847 416158 - 59 Send Opinion articles to - [email protected] For advertisement- [email protected]