Continental AG to Phase Out Business Activities at Gifhorn Plant by 2027, Affecting Jobs (IN BRIEF) Continental AG has announced plans to phase out business activities at its Gifhorn plant by the end of 2027. The measures include relocating assembly operations, outsourcing production, and relocating the replacement part business. These actions are in response to cost pressures in the automotive industry, declining markets, and an uncompetitive cost structure. Around 450 jobs out of the current 900 in Gifhorn will be affected. Continental aims to support employees by exploring job opportunities internally and externally and providing training programs. The decision is separate from Continental’s ongoing structural program initiated in 2019. The Gifhorn location, specializing in brake, stability, and chassis system components, has been part of Continental since 1998. (PRESS RELEASE) HANOVER, 8-Jul-2023 — /EuropaWire/ — At its meeting, the Supervisory Board of Continental AG was informed of the Executive Board’s plans to phase out business activities at the Gifhorn plant by the end of 2027 and took note of and concurred with the initial measures to be taken at the plant with immediate effect. These include relocating the assembly of the latest generation of air supply systems in 2024 and relocating the replacement part business – primarily for air springs and compressors – from 2024 onward. Continental is also planning to outsource the production of valve blocks and piston crowns for brake systems to suppliers by the end of 2027. These measures will affect around 450 of the around 900 jobs currently based in Gifhorn (including temporary workers) and are being taken against the backdrop of the sharp rise in cost pressure within the automotive industry, declining automotive markets and the location’s uncompetitive cost structure compared with international peers. Before the Supervisory Board decides on its required approval of the Executive Board’s resolution to exit the business in Gifhorn at its meeting in December 2023, it has asked the Executive Board to continue the steps it has initiated to develop job opportunities for employees on the internal and external job markets. The Executive Board’s resolution includes provisions in this respect to place as many employees as possible in new jobs (“from work to work”). Continental is also using all transformation tools at its disposal, such as its internal job market and the Continental Institute for Technology and Transformation (CITT), which offers employees an extensive range of training programs to strengthen their chances on the internal and external job markets. Continental has also entered into talks with companies based in the region that are looking for qualified personnel and is examining future external uses for the site, including by other companies. Dr. Ariane Reinhart, Executive Board member for Human Relations and Sustainability, emphasized: “We take the fears and concerns of the employees affected very seriously and will fulfill our responsibility as an employer. We are determined to move as many employees as possible from work to work, thus ensuring a seamless transition to a new job within Continental or on the external job market. We are making full use of our tried-and-tested transformation toolbox and are exploring new avenues – in close cooperation with social partners.” Since 2005, Continental has taken numerous measures together with employee representatives to improve competitiveness in Gifhorn. The Executive Board’s decision was taken because the profitability of Continental’s activities at the location cannot be ensured against the backdrop of the sharp rise in cost pressure and declining automotive markets. The measures are therefore not part of Continental’s ongoing structural program, which was initiated in 2019 to facilitate the company’s transformation in the face of structural changes in the automotive industry. The Gifhorn location was founded in 1951 by Alfred Teves as a brake production site. Since being taken over by Continental in 1998, it has specialized in the production of components for brake, stability and chassis systems. The production site currently forms part of Continental’s Safety and Motion business area in the Automotive group sector. Media Contact: Nicole Göttlicher
Spokeswoman, HR
Group Communications
+49 511 938-1640
nicole.goettlicher@conti.de SOURCE: Continental AG MORE ON CONTINENTAL, ETC.: Comments are closed. 
Load more...
  EuropaWire (EW) is the first truly pan-European and leading press release distribution and newswire service for Europe and the European Union working towards consolidating Europe’s voice on the global newswire and media scene. The newswire service comes with advanced submission forms, flexible pricing and PR budgeting, granular targeting, nearly uncapped reach across countries, markets, verticals, industries, audiences, languages, etc., translation and localisation for greater local PR impact, in-depth distribution reporting, metrics and insights including measured PR reach, reads, engagements, impact, etc., no cap on words, images and multimedia to go along with your release, among others. Your press releases will be seen among the releases of Europe’s biggest and most prominent companies, brands and institutions. HOW TO GET STARTED? Elektromobilności: ChargeEuropa zamyka rundę finansowania, której przewodził fundusz Shift4Good Growing call across Europe suggests it’s time to expand the 'right to be forgotten' to include news organizations DIGI COMMUNICATIONS N.V. REPORTS STRONG GROWTH IN H1 2024 DIGI COMMUNICATIONS N.V. GRANTS CONDITIONAL CLASS B STOCK OPTIONS TO A DIRECTOR OF ITS ROMANIAN SUBSIDIARY INVESTORS CALL: DIGI COMMUNICATIONS N.V. H1 2024 FINANCIAL RESULTS PORTUGAL: DIGI COMMUNICATIONS N.V. ACQUIRES NOWO COMMUNICATIONS, S.A. FITCH ASSIGNS DIGI FIRST-TIME 'BB' IDR; OUTLOOK STABLE DIGI SPAIN SIGNS NATIONAL ROAMING AND RAN SHARING AGREEMENT WITH TELEFÓNICA TELCOMDIS TO DISTRIBUTE MOTOROLA NURSERY AND AUDIO PRODUCTS ACROSS EUROPE Digi Communications N.V. announces the availability of the instruction regarding the payment of share dividend for FY 2023 Digi Communications N.V. announces the exercise of conditional share options by the executive directors Digi Communications N.V. announces the granting of conditional stock options to Executive Directors Digi Communications N.V. announces the OGMS resolutions and the availability of the approved 2023 Annual Report Czech Composer Tatiana Mikova Presents Her String Quartet ‘In Modo Lidico’ at Carnegie Hall SWIFTT: A Copernicus-based forest management tool to map, mitigate, and prevent the main threats to EU forests WickedBet Unveils Exciting Euro 2024 Promotion with Boosted Odds Museum of Unrest: a new space for activism, art and design Digi Communications N.V. announces the conclusion of a Senior Facility Agreement by companies within Digi Group DIGI ROMANIA (FORMERLY RCS & RDS S.A.) TO ACQUIRE TELEKOM ROMANIA MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS S.A. Green Light for Henri Hotel, Restaurants and Shops in the “Alter Fischereihafen” (Old Fishing Port) in Cuxhaven, opening Summer 2026 Digi Communications N.V. reports consolidated revenues and other income of EUR 447 million, adjusted EBITDA (excluding IFRS 16) of EUR 140 million for Q1 2024 Digi Communications finalizes EUR 117M export credit facilities for telecom network expansion in Romania and Portugal. Digi Spain also secures EUR 50M bridge facility with Banco Santander for working capital Digi Communications N.V. to host its general shareholders meeting on June 25, 2024, to discuss key topics including the 2023 Annual Report and dividend distribution Digi Communications NV announces Investors Call for the presentation of the Q1 2024 Financial Results Digi Communications N.V. proposes a dividend increase for 2023 Digi Communications N.V. announces the availability of the Romanian version of the 2023 Annual Report Digi Communications N.V. announces the availability of the 2023 Annual Report BevZero Spain Enhances Sustainability Efforts with Installation of Solar Panels at Production Facility Digi Communications N.V. announces share transaction made by an Executive Director of the Company with class B shares BevZero South Africa Achieves FSSC 22000 Food Safety Certification Digi Spain Enters Agreement to Sell FTTH Network to International Investors for Up to EUR 750 Million Patients as Partners® Europe Announces the Launch of 8th Annual Meeting with 2024 Keynotes and Topics Cybersecurity across Europe in the last quarter (1 Dec 2023 – 1 Mar 2024) Hamburg-based LogTech company driveMybox expands to Hungary What’s new in cancer care across Europe in early 2024 The European companies at MWC Barcelona 2024: AI, 5G, VR, XR, Cybersecurity, etc. Digi Communications NV 2023 Preliminary Financial Results THE LATEST ON QUANTUM COMPUTING IN EUROPE DIGI COMMUNICATIONS NV INVESTORS CALL ON 2023 PRELIMINARY FINANCIAL RESULTS AI IN JAN 2024 ACROSS EUROPE LENSA СТЪПВА НА БЪЛГАРСКИЯТ ПАЗАР PHARMA & BIOTECH: The largest repository of EU/European pharma & biotech press releases spanning 12 years (2012-2024) 