We independently evaluate the products we review. When you buy via links on our site, we may receive compensation. Read more about how we vet products and deals. The 4th of July is all about spending time with family, honoring the birth of America and celebrating freedom. In this case, freedom from overpriced computer hardware! It's in this patriotic spirit that we implore you to save big on a variety of laptops from all of your favorite brands. We're talking Apple, Asus, Lenovo, Samsung, HP and even lesser-known powerhouses that are giving the big shots a run for their money. Invest now and spend the rest of the summer with a lightning-fast new computer. Boot up and let's get busy! This powerhouse Mac is down to just $800; that's $200 off its usual price. It comes with 256GB of storage, 8GB of RAM, and a gorgeous 13-inch Retina display. "I love it," said one shopper. "I’ve had PCs my whole life. I thought I’d have a hard time adjusting, but I didn’t at all. I love how it connects across all my devices, iPhone. Apple Watch and the MacBook. I’m hooked!" If you're looking for something with a bit more power than the Air, go Pro! It has similar specs but superior processing power for all the video and image rendering you can imagine ... and some that you can't.  One user raved, "This is an incredible laptop. The laptop is sleek and sophisticated with incredible ease of use. I am impressed with the design, and the function is as perfect as you’d expect an Apple product to be. I highly recommend this product." One user summed it up thusly: "A dream come true." This is the latest version of the Macbook Air. It only released recently, but it has already dropped a Benjamin in this limited-time sale.  Best 4th of July laptop deals This laptop is a whopping 73% off, but don't let its puny price make you think it's a weakling: it comes with a 2.8GHz processor, 128GB SSD, and 4GB RAM.  "I purchased this laptop for myself," began this reviewer's tale. "I did not need anything overly fancy, and it needed to be within my budget. This laptop is a lot faster than I expected, and it is perfect for what I needed it for. I have a small business, and it works perfect for that. It is a great laptop for the price! Glad that I decided to purchase this laptop after all the research that I had done. Definitely worth the price!" What a story, huh? This 4th of July, you have the unalienable right to a dependable computer for less than $300. This beauty is 77% off, with 4GB RAM, 128GB SSD, and a complimentary one-year subscription to Office 365. God bless America! This consumer made a compelling case: "Good components are used...Very easy to get up and running and personalize. No problems or issues and I would definitely purchase again." If you need a laptop with a large display and a teeny price tag, you can't go wrong with this 17-inch screen. (Not to mention the 4GB of RAM, 128GB SSD, and a 2.5GHz processor behind it). This baby's been discounted 75% discount from its usual price.  "I was nervous about ordering a laptop that wasn't one of the 'big names', but I'm so glad I trusted the reviews and went for it," one user lamented. "This has been perfect!... All I had to do was install the work-related software I needed and I was up and running same day, no issues, no lag, etc...perfect!" With its 15.6-inch display, 8GB of RAM (expandable to a whopping 20GB), and 256GB SSD, this is a great workhorse computer for students or anyone that needs something a step beyond a Chromebook.   "Great laptop for everyday use. Checking email, social media, Google Drive, Internet browsing all made fast by Intel processor, and adequate 8GB RAM. Nice display, good color and sharpness...Nice response from the trackpad," said one savvy shopper.  If you're looking for the ultimate in budget-friendly machines, this 11.6-inch Chromebook is the one. It has 4GB of RAM and 16GB onboard memory, but that's more than enough for the kind of load you'll be putting a Chromebook under.  "Chromebooks are great little computers for simple projects. I use it for writing, mostly in Google docs, while relaxing on my hammock," said this chill customer. "It doesn't get hot, and it's lightweight. I can check my email, browse the internet, keep it open on the counter with recipes while cooking, watch videos and easily connect my Bluetooth earbuds to listen to music — all at the same time." This bite-sized computer from HP provides 64GB of storage, 4GB of RAM, and a 4K display with long battery life.  Said this plainspoken purchaser: "Very easy to use. Small but not too small. Simple instructions for setting up. We have purchased two of these Chromebooks."   This little laptop can be easily converted into a tablet. With 4GB of RAM and 128GB onboard memory, it's powerful enough for lightweight day-to-day tasks.  "I picked this one because of the features, side ports. I really enjoy the fast start up and quick shut down. I've been using Google apps for years so no transition there. I also appreciate Google's constant updates keeping me safe from all creeps out there," said one satisfied shopper.  The Flex 5i is a fantastic option for someone who can't decide between a laptop and a tablet. It's both! A tabtop! A laplet! Also fantastic? It comes with 128GB of storage, 8GB of memory and enough battery life to last all day.  "You don't expect much from a $300 Chromebook in terms of quality, but this thing is very impressive. The all metal build feels very sturdy, as do the hinges. The keyboard is higher-quality than most $1,000 laptops, and the screen and speakers are much higher quality than I would expect from this price range (you can hear actual bass and get pretty good contrast of dark colors!). The battery lasts for, like, eight straight hours of streaming, and the fan noise is usually quiet enough that it isn't noticeable," this thorough critiquer said.  Practically any gaming-grade laptop priced at less than $700 would be worth it, but this one especially is. It has an RTX 3050, 8GB RAM, and 256GB storage to keep you gaming through this national birthday and many more.  "I love this laptop. It's powerful enough for any AAA titles if you're not obsessed with 4K gaming. For the price, it's wonderful if you're willing to pop it open and upgrade the SSD and the RAM as the funds become available. Storage can run out pretty quickly especially loading it up with large titles, but can be easily mitigated with a high-speed external SSD," one gamer explained. This laptop has an RTX 4060, one of the state-of-the-art-iest graphics cards you can buy. Combine that with 512GB SSD, 16GB RAM, and a 4.9GHz processor, and you're looking at a pow-pow-powerful unit at a very reasonable price.  "When it got here I immediately installed a 2TB ssd. The laptop had several windows updates but came in excellent brand new condition, no issues at all! It can easily run VR in ultra settings at a comfortable 90 FPS. It gets up to 120fps on Hogwarts Legacy with raytracing and ultra settings. It also can run in 4k resolution. The RGB lights are completely customizable and are very bright/vivid. This is a 1000/10 buy," raved one very satisfied shopper. The reviews quoted above reflect the most recent versions at the time of publication. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.