Featured Article Comment How do you critique functional art? Do you base your assessment on its capability or the resolution at which it solves a problem? Is it more important that it succeeds as art? Or is it the overall statement of purpose that matters, balance between form and function be damned? Not questions I expected to grapple with while reviewing a hybrid tablet, or, well, ever to be honest. But here we are. The design studio and clothing manufacturer Acronym has collaborated with Asus to produce another device in a co-branded line of computers. This one, the mouthfeel-rich ROG FLOW Z13-ACRNM RMT02 is the second of its “reality modeling tool” series. Asus has a history of eye-catching stunt machines, but the Acronym series (the last one was a straight laptop) is the most interesting to me, a student and collector of Acronym products. Acronym makes functional garments in layers out from skin to shell. The catalog is largely made from german fabrics and materials like schoeller-dryskin, Gore-Tex and encapsulated nylon. Since 1994, Acronym founders Errolson Hugh and Michaela Sachenbacher have built a truly unique brand over the decades — collaborating first with brands like Burton and then famously with Nike’s ACG sub-brand to create what the general public now thinks of as the modern technical sport aesthetic. The cut and shape of the clothes looks more akin to hiking or martial arts gear and the technical aspects are emphasized over anything else. Still, they’re stylish and unique — instantly recognizable.
 One of my oldest pieces is a first-generation J1A, one of the most iconic jackets in fashion design history. Twenty years after it was made, it’s still incredibly functional and feels 100% modern. That brand thinking is clearly written on the face, back and keys of the RMT02. It’s brutalist, functional gear that blends the modernity of the 16:10 display’s black monolith with a machined metal back and frame. Iconography and typography courtesy of designer David Rudnick wraps the case in many different applications — printed, milled and embossed. There’s a certain character that I absorbed from being, pretty much, present when personal computers came into the world. There is something about participating in that revolution, followed quickly by the internet while simultaneously drinking in books, movies and culture that was influenced by it. The feeling of computers as tools that you used to manipulate the bits and bauds of the internet, rather than as smoothly encapsulated portals that looked to disappear. The computers of my youth were messy bits of plastic and metal and wire and dust and blinking cursors on black and green screens. They asked so much of you — building your own PC was a DPS check for patience and hunger. Hunger for access to the world that could only be reached through that demanding door. Though this ASUS tablet thing is light-years from that universe, I think it’s clear that Acronym feels some of that, too, and wanted to evoke it here. This makes some sense — Acronym’s clothing is designed to be an interface between the wearer and the world. Typically, wearing technical clothing and wearing regular clothing are really two separate experiences. Acronym has managed to blend the aesthetic and functional worlds so aggressively that it has managed to push a hernia bubble of its own into the universe where dressing for the apocalypse also keeps you dry, makes it easier for you to store and reach your stuff, and integrates with each garment layer you wear. Not easy. This machine lives in that same bubble. I’m honestly not going to spend too much time on performance here. The battery life isn’t great but it’s a very capable machine that produces decent frame rates for gaming and will handle “internet stuff” just fine. It’s got a GeForce RTX 4070 laptop GPU and a 13th Gen Intel Core i9, and the display is really, really nice with a solid 165 Hz refresh rate. It has all of the other normal stuff a computer should have too. I remain massively unconvinced that you’re going to buy this if you’re not a collector or in search of an interchange of vibes with a computing device, so I’m not sure getting too detailed on performance is worth anything in the long run. I think the important thing to know is that if you go in search of one of these $2,500 hybrids, you’re not getting a hamstrung computer with it — it’s top tier for the form factor. The exoskeleton of the RMT02 features four clip attachment points where a somewhat complex sling can be deployed. The sling allows you to carry it over your shoulder sans bag — and yes, it integrates with Acronym’s Interops jacket system that lets you slide it under the tail of your Gore-Tex to protect it from the rain. It also clips in at four points to let you compute while standing up. It all works — really well, actually. I don’t know how many times you’d use something like that, or carry it outside of a bag, but it’s absolutely functional. Wild, out there, kind of nuts, but ultimately functional. That’s the Acronym brand. The milled aluminum enclosure is gorgeous, the kickstand is solid as hell and the keyboard . . . is inscrutable. You’d better know how to touch type. The Cyrillic-ish alphabet designed for Acronym by Rudnick is all part of the theme — this is a computer from another dimension slightly off axis from yours, where people stand in the rain on the roof of a parking garage typing something into a terminal prompt. Of note, the package comes with a strapped pocket made of X-Pac laminate (an antislashing/tearing material derived from competition sailcloth) that would probably set you back several hundred dollars from Acronym’s website. Fun! The RMT02 is a tone-poem of a computer that sounds like a modem firing a handshake signal and feels like the turbo button of a PC tower. It wraps, clicks, straps, hangs and folds. It does stuff. Most computers work really well these days, all things considered. But most of them are pretty damn inert. They open and sit there. The RMT02 feels like it constantly wants to be other things, maybe things you need. I love that. It’s unique. It’s not for everyone. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  Powered by WordPress VIP