Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The ASUS ROG Strix Scar 15 Gaming Laptop is a gaming, streaming, and creating machine. Packed with a 12th-gen Intel Core, this laptop can keep up with the most high-quality games. Equipped with an RTX 3070 Ti for maximum processing, the ASUS ROG Strix Scar 15 Gaming Laptop delivers a gaming experience that can be enjoyed both at home and on the go.

The laptop features a standard 15.6" display that has a super-fast 240 Hz IPS panel with QHD resolution. Other specifications include a 1 TB SSD, 16 GB DDR5 memory, and an RGB-backlit keyboard.                     A significant price drop on Amazon Prime Day makes the Asus ROG Strix Scar 15 gaming laptop much more accessible than usual. The regular listing price for the laptop is $2049.99 but it's now tagged at $1499.99. That's a savings of $550, thanks to the 26% Prime Day discount. A deal like this might just be the sign you've been looking for to upgrade to
                         Asus is a multinational computer hardware and electronics company founded in 1989. Headquartered in Taipei, Taiwan, the company is a key player in the computer hardware industry. It manufactures a variety of products, including laptops, desktops, and peripherals. Products like the Asus ROG and TUF series have given it a strong foothold in the gaming industry. Some of its most noted offerings include the ROG Phone, ZenBook, and VivoBook series.
      RELATED: The Best RTX 4090 Gaming Laptops
                     This Strix Scar laptop is a true powerhouse, featuring a 12th-generation Intel Core i9-12900H processor. This top-end gaming CPU is more than enough for any gaming application and is perfect for multitasking as well. It's also equipped with the GeForce RTX 3070 Ti laptop GPU, designed for high-fidelity graphics. This includes supports for realistic lighting using ray-tracing. Cooling solution on the ROG Strix Scar 15 is great too, as it employs premium Thermal Grizzly liquid metal and Arc Flow fans for efficient thermal management.
                         Its 15.6" Quad HD display comes with an IPS panel that supports a refresh rate of up to 240 Hz. It also covers 100% DCI-P3 color, offering accurate colors for content creation. The laptop features a 1 TB PCIe 4.0 SSD for super-fast loading times and 16 GB of DDR5 RAM for better multitasking performance. Connectivity options are great, including Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2, and ports for most needs. A large 90 WHr battery ensures gaming on the go, and 100-watt USB-C fast charging adds convenience. The Asus ROG Strix Scar 15 gaming laptop is now on Prime Day available on Amazon for $1499.99.
                         The ASUS ROG Strix Scar 15 is a top-tier choice for serious gamers and content creators alike. It provides a harmonious blend of power and aesthetic customization.
      Check this deal out on Amazon
  MORE: The Best PC and Laptop Deals in October 2023
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Game Rant has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. Shoppers looking for a brand-new Logitech gaming mouse with wireless connectivity and a super-precise sensor can now get the Logitech G309 at $71.99. Pokemon Unite confirms the addition of three new characters, bringing a trio of Pokemon very popular with fans to Aeos Island. From Baldur's Gate 3 to Wartales, these top-tier CRPGs are perfect for some co-op multiplayer fun. After a life of abuse, Tyrion finally gave into his deepest desire and shot his father dead, but what was the final insult? This guide will help players find the Yaoguai Chiefs and Kings in Black Myth: Wukong's Forest of Wolves, Bamboo Grove, and Black Wind Cave. Players who are looking for the three bells in Black Myth: Wukong's Black Wind Mountain can find their locations detailed here. A fresh melee weapon has joined the action. Find out how to unlock the Spear in Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone using this guide.