Georgia Tech opened up the season tonight against Louisville in Atlanta and it was a back-and-forth first half between the Cardinals and Yellow Jackets.  After a pair of early field goals by Louisville, Georgia Tech's offense roared back to life and dominated the second quarter to take the lead going into the half. It was the best half of football that Georgia Tech has played in quite some time.  So what are the big takeaways for the Yellow Jackets after one half in Atlanta? Georgia Tech was dreadful on offense last season but made some roster changes at the skill position groups and brought in Texas A&M transfer Haynes King to lead the team at quarterback.  The most important hire however was getting Buster Faulkner out of Athens.  Georgia Tech found its groove in the second half and totaled 321 yards against the Cardinal's defense, including 206 through the air and over 100 yards on the ground. Georgia Tech averaged over nine yards per play and dominated Louisville along the lines of scrimmage. It was a complete first half for the offense, due largely in part to Faulkner's playcalling.  He was in his bag as the kids say.  Haynes King has enjoyed a solid debut for Georgia Tech Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports New Georgia Tech quarterback Haynes King threw an interception on the first drive of the game and it was an overall shaky first quarter for the Yellow Jackets new quarterback.  But he bounced back and in a big way.  King finished the first half going 10-15 for 206 yards and throwing for two touchdowns. He was efficient and in rhythm for the entire second quarter and it was the best performance in a half for a Georgia Tech quarterback in quite some time.  Now he just needs to finish the game.  Georgia Tech had a hard time finding explosive plays last season, but not in the first half of tonight's game.  The Yellow Jackets had completions of 46, 55, 33 and 48 yards in the first half, with one of them going for a touchdown. Wide receivers Chase Lane and Malik Rutherford were huge, as was running back Jamal Haynes, who provided the backfield with a spark. Louisville transfer Trey Cooley ran the ball four times for 40 yards and scored two touchdowns.  It was a much different Georgia Tech offense than we have seen in recent years and it needs to continue in the second half.  Follow for the latest on Georgia Tech Athletics! Facebook: All Yellow Jackets Twitter: @AllYellowJacket Follow Jackson on Twitter: @jacksoncaudell Follow Madison on Twitter: @Madison_Meyers7 Follow Matthew on Twitter: @kistner__ See all of the latest Tech News at AllYellowJackets.com Check out all Georgia Tech Photos Check out the Georgia Tech Homepage Listen to the All Yellow Jackets Podcast for the best Georgia Tech coverage! Georgia Tech AD J Batt releases statement on the ACC adding Cal, Stanford, and SMU Georgia Tech vs. Louisville: Official score predictions for tonight's game Georgia Tech vs Louisville: Official matchup breakdown and prediction Breaking: ACC will expand and add Cal, Stanford, and SMU Get up, it's gameday Georgia Tech! Brent Key era begins with clash vs Louisville How can Georgia Tech upset Louisville? Report: ACC presidents meeting has been rescheduled for Friday morning Week three high school football schedule for every Georgia Tech commit All Yellow Jackets Official Staff Predictions for the 2023 season Notre Dame AD is unsure when ACC presidents call will be rescheduled Jackson Caudell covers Georgia Tech Athletics and the Atlanta Hawks for FanNation