As deep-sea miners seek international go-ahead, opponents say the environmental impact is too high. Portable X-ray equipment that can take high quality images is transforming healthcare in remote areas. New website platforms are working like matchmakers to connect potential job sharers. An increasing number of holidaymakers are picking more environmentally-friendly trips. Desalination usually requires a lot of heat and power, but a new system just needs wave energy. Portable X-ray equipment that can take high quality images is transforming healthcare in remote areas. Ports around the world are investing in green fuels to allow cargo ships to sail carbon-free. How video games are continuing to become more accessible for people with impaired vision. Forecasters are continuing to offer more real-time updates and personalised recommendations. New website platforms are working like matchmakers to connect potential job sharers. There are now 555 air quality monitors across the country, but some say they aren't good enough. A growing number of individuals are using apps to block access to social media and the internet. With bee populations struggling, mechanical pollination may be increasingly needed as a back-up. Fraudsters are using fake job ads to try to get people to give them money or their personal data. In the Netherlands, experiments are underway to ensure future food supply and cut carbon emissions. With one third of lorries in the UK driving empty, some hauliers are turning to technology for help. Staff are being asked to put on VR goggles when they go on a course or team-building session. The smart doorbells have soared in popularity, but they may not help reduce the number of break-ins. We are in the midst of a technological revolution, but productivity has not improved. Success in business is acclaimed, but a growing global movement wants failure to be celebrated too. Wine recommendation apps are now using AI to help better match people with a bottle they will like. With photo manipulation technology now extending to videos some want authorities to intervene. Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.  