Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article This report is from today's CNBC Daily Open, our new, international markets newsletter. CNBC Daily Open brings investors up to speed on everything they need to know, no matter where they are. Like what you see? You can subscribe here. Dow outperformsU.S. stocks traded mixed Thursday. Netflix and Tesla slipped after reporting results after the bell Wednesday, weighing down the Nasdaq Composite, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average notched a ninth straight positive session. European markets closed higher, with the regional Stoxx 600 index adding 0.4%. Elon Musk, CEO, CTO, founderElon Musk is CEO of Tesla and SpaceX; CTO of Twitter; founder of Neuralink, The Boring Company and now xAI. Those overlapping roles at multiple ventures worry some analysts and investors, who think Musk might grow distracted or that his various companies might end up competing with each other.  Wheat risesWheat prices have been rising this week, with the most actively traded wheat contract on the Chicago Board of Trade hitting 737 cents per bushel, a three-week high. The price jump follows Russia's withdrawal from the Black Sea Grain Initiative. Ukraine's Agriculture Ministry said Wednesday recent Russian attacks had destroyed 60,000 tons of grain. Turkey's too-slow hikesTurkey's central bank hiked its key interest rate by 250 basis points to 17.5%. Analysts were expecting a 500-basis-point hike to combat the country's annual inflation of 38.21% in June. "Terrible decision … Again under-delivering," Timothy Ash, emerging markets strategist at BlueBay Asset Management, wrote. The Turkish lira fell about 50 basis points on the news. [PRO] Tesla in neutral gear?Tesla may have reported record revenue for its second quarter and beaten Wall Street's expectations for both profit and revenue. But Wall Street isn't completely cheering the electric vehicle maker because of its shrinking margins. Here's how analysts from the biggest banks have responded to Tesla's earnings report. Since late May, when the frenzy around Nvidia started building, technology stocks have been pushing the Nasdaq Composite higher, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which comprises fewer tech stocks, has languished. Yesterday was a reversal of that trend. The Dow advanced 0.47%, its ninth straight day of gains and its longest winning streak since 2017. The blue-chip index was juiced by Johnson & Johnson, which popped 6% after the company posted better-than-expected second-quarter results and raised its outlook for the year. Goldman Sachs, another Dow constituent, climbed 3%. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq slumped 2.05%, its worst day since March, putting it on pace for a negative week. The tech-heavy index was dragged down by falling shares of Netflix and Tesla. Netflix tumbled 8.4% after posting revenue that disappointing analysts, while Tesla sank 9.7% as the company's earnings call failed to clarify delivery and production plans for the year. Other tech stocks, like Amazon and Nvidia, fell in sympathy and lost more than 3%. The S&P 500 also slipped 0.68%. Still, this might be a temporary aberration because of earnings reports. There's no indication that investor excitement over artificial intelligence has simmered down — recall how Microsoft's stock hit a record high Tuesday after the tech company announced its subscription plans for AI. Moreover, the Dow's up 6.3% year to date while the Nasdaq has popped 34.4% in the same period. It'd take much more than one bad day to halt the momentum of tech stocks. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by