If not listed, please contact your TV provider. Given an opportunity to take a knee and run out the clock in what would have been a victory for No. 17 Miami vs. Georgia Tech, a decision by coach Mario Cristobal to run the ball on third-and-10 from the Yellow Jackets 30-yard line wound up costing the Hurricanes the win. Georgia Tech ultimately prevailed 23-20 Saturday evening thanks to an improbable last-second touchdown pass on a play the Yellow Jackets shouldn't even have been able to try. Perhaps more improbable than the touchdown is how Georgia Tech got in position to win the game. Miami had the ball and a 20-17 lead with :33 on the clock. Georgia Tech didn't have any timeouts left, but Cristobal -- rather than kneel the ball in victory formation -- decided to call an offensive play. Running back Don Chaney Jr. fumbled the ball and Georgia Tech recovered, a play that held up after official review.  “That’s one of the biggest coaching mistakes at this level that I have ever seen in my lifetime.”Miami could've taken a knee and closed out Georgia Tech. Instead ... disaster struck 😳 pic.twitter.com/I5vAvtn78p "When the drive started, it was going to be at 1:57 and we could burn about 1:27 off and then it was recalibrated," Cristobal said after the game. "We should have taken a timeout there at the end. We thought he could get the first down and we talked about two hands on the ball, but that isn't good enough. That's it, we fumbled the ball and they went 75 yards in two plays. There is no excuse. "We were moving the pile and we had a pretty good drive going. I am not going to make an excuse for it and say we should have done this or that. Sometimes we can get carried away. But I should have just stepped in and said, 'Hey, take a knee.'" After the Yellow Jackets were gifted with the turnover, Yellow Jackets quarterback Haynes King took a snap from the shotgun at Miami's 44-yard line with 10 seconds remaining. His initial reads weren't open, so he scrambled to his right towards his right. At the same time, wide receiver Christian Leary streaked toward the end zone catching the ball and charging into the end zone. Instead of risking a blocked extra point, the Yellow Jackets kneeled the ball on the extra-point attempt. Miami got the ball back with :02 remaining, but Georgia Tech's defense held after Miami attempted a last desperation play with several laterals. In a wild turn of events, practically the exact same thing happened to Cristobal when he was the coach at Oregon towards the end of a 2018 overtime loss to Stanford. In that game, Cristobal's Oregon team held a 31-28 lead over Stanford in the final minutes. While Stanford had a timeout that would've kept Oregon from being able to run the clock out entirely, a couple of kneel downs would've led to Oregon likely punting with 10 seconds left in the game, leaving Stanford with very little time to get into field goal position. Instead, Oregon handed off to C.J. Verdell on a second-and-2 play, and Verdell fumbled. Stanford recovered, kicked a field goal to force overtime, and won the game 38-31. The decision not to kneel then was questioned, but was certainly more defensible than what happened against Georgia Tech, as the Hurricanes could've ended the game by kneeling. © 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. All Rights Reserved. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc. The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site. Images by Getty Images and US Presswire