 - IMEMC News International Middle East Media Center Updated: Palestinian sources have confirmed, Thursday morning, that Israeli soldiers shot thirteen Palestinians, including one who suffered life-threatening gunshot wounds, and abducted fourteen during an Israeli military invasion into the Aqabat Jaber refugee camp, south of Jericho, in the northeastern West Bank. Late Wednesday night, many armored Israeli military vehicles invaded the refugee camp from several directions before the soldiers stormed and ransacked at least fifty homes, including Jericho governor Jihad Abu Al-Asal, and his sons. Media sources said the soldiers surrounded a home and fired Energa shells at the property before storming it. Dozens of Palestinians protested the invasion before the soldiers fired a barrage of live fire, gas bombs, and concussion grenades. Medical sources have confirmed that the soldiers shot thirteen Palestinians with live fire, including one who suffered life-threatening wounds. Palestinian fights also exchanged fire with the soldiers in the refugee camp after the military vehicles invaded it. The soldiers also broke into and caused serious damage to several shops and homes before confiscating surveillance recordings and equipment. The soldiers also surrounded and isolated the refugee camp and prevented Palestinian cars, including ambulances, from entering it. One of the wounded Palestinians was left bleeding on the ground when the soldiers prevented a Palestinian ambulance from reaching him, but the medics later managed to reach him and rushed him to a hospital in Jericho. Also, the Palestinian Prisoners’ Society (PPS) said the soldiers stormed and ransacked dozens of homes and abducted fourteen Palestinians identified as Omar Nasser Al-Hinnawi, Mohammad Issa Hajjaj, ’Mohammad Adel Sharaf, Eyad Hmeidat, Mohammad Fawzi Awadat, Ibrahim Yousef Yaghi, Ala’ Al-Bitar, Mohammad Fawwaz Balhan, Ramzi Fawwaz Balhan, Fayez Ramzi Balhan, Rami Yahia Al-Jammal, Zeid Mohammad Raslan, Ibrahim Al-Allam and Ala Abu Al-Ata. Updated From:
One Seriously, Israeli Soldiers Shoot Eight Palestinians, Abduct Twelve, In Jericho
May 25, 2023, at 04:40 Late Wednesday night, Israeli soldiers invaded the Aqabat Jaber refugee camp south of Jericho in the northeastern West Bank and shot eight Palestinians, including one who suffered life-threatening injuries, and abducted twelve young men. Media sources said many army vehicles invaded the refugee camp from several directions before the soldiers stormed, ransacked at least twenty homes, and occupied several rooftops. The sources added that the soldiers surrounded a home and fired shells at it, leading to protests before the army fired many live rounds, gas bombs, and concussion grenades. Medical sources said the soldiers shot eight Palestinians with live fire, including one who suffered critical wounds. The soldiers abducted twelve Palestinians from their homes in the refugee camp, identified as Mohammad Hajjaj Habash, Mohammad Issa Hajjaj, Omar Nasser Al-Hinnawi, Mohammad Adel Fakhouri, Eyad Hmeidat Saheriyya, Mousa Bitar, Ala’ Bitra, Mohammad Fawzi Awadat, Ibrahim Yaghi, Mohammad Fawwz Balhan, Ramzki Fawwaz Balhan, and Fayez Ramzi Balhan. The soldiers also surrounded and isolated the refugee camp and prevented Palestinian cars, including ambulances, from entering it.   - IMEMC News International Middle East Media Center 

								Proudly powered by WordPress								
 | 
								Theme: Newsup by Themeansar.								