
                
                    
                        Let MedTech Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Fremont, CA — March 2, 2023 — AVer Information Inc. USA, the award-winning provider of education technology and video collaboration solutions, will showcase the MD330 Series Medical Grade PTZ Camera and a lineup of Pro AV cameras suitable for healthcare at American Telemedicine Association’s (ATA) 2023 Annual Conference from March 5–6, 2023, in San Antonio, Texas. AVer’s MD330 Series is a highly-versatile medical-grade PTZ camera explicitly designed for telemedicine and patient monitoring. Featuring IEC 60601 Medical Certification, the MD330 Series boasts 30X optical zoom with 4K output resolution to deliver superb image quality for healthcare environments. Specific to tele-ICU and tele-sitting applications, the MD330 boasts high-resolution and wide pan-tilt angles to capture and share vital signs and statics with medical professionals. To support intuitive telehealth conferencing, the MD330 Series includes a removable camera head to allow healthcare professionals to capture close-up images of patients at different angles. The MD330 Series boasts an embedded audio system with speakerphone and noise reduction to supports clear communications. “AVer is energized to attend American Telemedicine Association’s Annual Conference to showcase our award-winning Connected Healthcare Solutions,” said James Salter, Senior Vice President of Marketing, AVer Information Inc., Americas. “Advancements in healthcare technology, particularly video conferencing solutions, are accelerating telehealth and telemedicine capabilities by providing patients with access to doctors from around the globe – our MD330 Series is an example of those advancements. The MD330 Series combines impressive high-quality features with a simplified user experience to empower remote examinations, consultations, diagnosis and treatment.” AVer’s MD330 Series PTZ Cameras are medical-grade EN60601-1 and TAA/NDAA Compliant. The MD330 Series features helpful functions, including fast focus speed for seamless patient viewing and a one-button snapshot to capture still images. MD330 boasts unparalleled versatility, operating as a PTZ telehealth camera for medical carts or bedside use and as a detached, handheld camera to gather closer images and specific viewing angles for personalized patient care. AVer’s MD330 Series operates with various healthcare platforms to deliver video visits, medical exams and remote patient monitoring. Visit AVer in booth #781 at American Telemedicine Association’s (ATA) 2023 Annual Conference from March 5–6, 2023 in San Antonio, Texas. To learn more about AVer Information Inc. USA, please visit averusa.com. About AVer Information Inc. Founded in 2008, AVer is an award-winning provider of education technology and video collaboration camera solutions that improve productivity and enrich learning. From accelerating learning in the classroom to increasing competitive advantage for businesses, AVer solutions leverage the power of technology to help people connect with one another to achieve great things. AVer's product portfolio includes professional-grade artificial intelligence-enabled auto-tracking cameras, Zoom and Microsoft Teams Certified enterprise-grade USB cameras, document cameras, and mobile device charging solutions. AVer strives to provide industry-leading service and support that exceeds customer expectations. AVer is deeply committed to the community and the environment, and it employs stringent green processes. Learn more at averusa.com. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines