Are you an Atera user? You now can make more money AND increase your margin! SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 8, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Zomentum, full-stack revenue platform for IT professionals, now integrates with Atera, a leading provider of remote monitoring and management (RMM) software. With the integration, partners can benefit from Zomentum's lead management, proposal creation, and e-signature features. As a launch offer, Zomentum is giving a 30-day free trial for all Atera partners. By integrating Atera with Zomentum, partners can streamline their sales and quoting processes, allowing them to win more, save time and increase margins all at the same time. The comprehensive approach helps partners visualize the lead flow and convert opportunities efficiently. Zomentum's highly customizable document module enables partners to create quotes, send proposals, and e-sign documents all from one place, making the sales process seamless. "As we set out to build integrations with products that would help partners, Zomentum popped up as the obvious choice to pick first and prioritize because it made most sense for a partner business. A lot of our partners had also been asking us for integration with a sales tool that offers quoting and Zomentum is the best in the category - so made it a win-win" said Hila Naor, VP Product, Atera "We were built ground up for IT professionals. The fact that the Atera team came forward to open this integration and make it seamless for their partners is just a validation of our commitment to the IT channel. we cannot be more excited for them to experience what we have to offer" said Shruti Ghatge, CEO of Zomentum. To learn more about the Atera and Zomentum integration and to start your 30-day free trial, visit https://www.atera.com/integrations/zomentum/ About Atera Atera is a leading provider of cloud-based, AI-powered IT management software designed to simplify and optimize IT management processes for IT teams and managed service providers (MSPs). Through a unified platform, Atera enables its customers to efficiently manage IT networks and devices, provide remote support, and deliver exceptional service to their end-users. By leveraging cutting-edge technology, Atera empowers teams and businesses to achieve 10X efficiency and thrive in the ever-evolving world of IT management. Learn more at Atera.com. About Zomentum Zomentum is a complete revenue platform built for MSPs. The platform simplifies the sales process and offers a comprehensive approach to help them visualize the lead flow and convert opportunities efficiently. Zomentum's customizable document module enables partners to create quotes, send proposals, and e-sign documents all from one place, making the sales process seamless. To learn more about Zomentum, visit http://www.zomentum.com Media Contact Ankit Dhingra, Zomentum, 9354234287, ankit@zomentum.com   SOURCE  Zomentum © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.