
        Article updated on August 15, 2024 at 4:00 PM PDT
         
    Keep an eye on your home with these indoor security cameras. Our CNET experts have tested and rounded up the top options to give you better peace of mind when you're away from home.
   CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise. CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise. While many people focus on shopping for outdoor security camera setups when upgrading their home security, an indoor security cam holds equal importance if you need to watch over important parts of your home or simply want to keep an eye on your pets while you're at work. With over 150 hours spent testing the latest indoor cams, we named the Google Nest Cam as the best indoor security camera. It’s equipped with night vision, good object recognition, compatibility with Google Home or Alexa and cloud storage that captures and stores 3 hours of footage for free. Now, if you feel the Nest’s versatile cam is a little pricey and maybe is a little too large for some areas in your home, don’t worry: We’ve included many other picks, from powerful 4K options to tiny cams that are great for renters. From budget to high-end picks, we’ve got a little for everyone looking for home security systems to keep watch over their loved ones. We’ve also included tips on choosing the best indoor security cams (while keeping privacy laws in mind), FAQs that may be bugging you, how we test these cams and other key info below. If you want to upgrade your security camera options, you may want to stop by our guides on the best outdoor home security cams, the best wireless cams and how you can save by using an old smartphone as a security device. The easily adjustable Nest Cam second-generation model works hard to make itself at home, bringing it to the top of our picks. Available in a variety of colors with support for shelf or wall mounting, the camera is easy to set up in any spot you have in mind, as long as you’re near enough to an outlet for this wired model. The healthy 135-degree field of view also lets us cover enough space to easily capture all the important spots in a room, while the night vision is top-notch for darker conditions. The reason we gave the Nest Cam our top spot came down to Google’s unique contributions to smart home security. The company’s AI detection is unparalleled, able to spot people, animals or vehicles, and with a subscription, it’s good enough to learn the difference between familiar and unfamiliar faces. Then there’s video storage: Nest users get 3 free hours of cloud storage, a deal that’s almost impossible to find elsewhere, and you can expand it with the Nest Aware Subscription. Google’s AES 125-bit encryption and low-vulnerability track record also help inspire confidence. If you want a security camera that puts the “smart” in your smart home like none other, the Nest Cam is an easy choice. At $100 the price is higher than many of our picks, but we believe the plethora of features you get in return is worthwhile.  
    SCORE
   Eufy's pan/tilt/zoom indoor cam has one of the best designs we've seen, but the app proved annoying. A cam that can pan, tilt and zoom is perfect for open-floor plans in your home and navigating tricky areas where you want to manage multiple angles. We’ve got more than one camera with this design on our list, but our favorite model is the Eufy S350. Its dual-cam zoom function complements the PTZ features, while the extra-high 4K resolution lens helps you examine every detail. Those PTZ features are particularly helpful when paired with AI tracking, which automatically follows pets and people around the room when it detects movement. We also found the S350’s night vision was excellent with two infrared LEDs. For those concerned with privacy or ongoing fees, Eufy falls firmly on the local storage side with a microSD card slot (not included). We also appreciate that Eufy took steps in 2024 to add end-to-end encryption to its web portal and other changes following a security vulnerability issue, although we are keeping an eye on their security performance. Keep in mind this camera is wired, so you can’t put it just anywhere, but thanks to all that panning, tilting and zooming, your placement concerns will be a distant memory after installation. Eufy's pan/tilt/zoom indoor cam has one of the best designs we've seen, but the app proved annoying. Tapo's pan/tilt cam is amazing for the price. We like a lot of TP-Link devices here at CNET, including its routers and smart plugs, so we were eager to try out the Tapo C210. The term “budget camera” makes it sound like you’re giving up features to save on price, but it’s seriously impressive just how little is lost with this now under-$30 indoor camera from TP-Link. It offers a hefty 2K resolution (more than enough for indoor viewing), plus very solid pan/tilt capabilities with motion detection and tracking for 360-degree coverage of a room. Add in the two-way audio and night vision, and it’s the best security camera deal we’ve found so far. The Tapo cam supports notifications for sound alerts as well as person detection, so you can use it for tasks like baby monitoring. For more security-focused jobs, it has a built-in siren for intruders. Alexa and Google Home support round the cam off nicely as a jack-of-all-trades that’s still a steal. You even have options when it comes to video storage: The C210 has an on-board microSD card and an option for Tapo Care at $3.50 per month that includes 30 day-long cloud storage and rich notifications.   Tapo's pan/tilt cam is amazing for the price. Ring's battery cam is on the higher-end but offers a versatile, weather resistance option to watch kids wherever they are. Indoor cameras work well with wired models because there’s usually an outlet near the shelf or table where you want to place a camera. In some cases, there may not be any nearby outlets, or you may want to move the camera to the deck, patio, sunroom or playroom for an afternoon, then move it back. The battery-powered Ring Stick Up Pro  is the answer here. While we like it most indoors, it’s weather-resistant enough that if you leave it outside overnight in the rain by accident (or for a couple of weeks), you don’t have anything to worry about. The Ring Stick Up Cam Pro also comes with a bevy of important features including night vision, two-way audio and a siren. The motion detection includes customizable privacy zones, although there’s no sound detection on this model. It does have unique extras like Bird's Eye zones for tracking if you really want to dive into settings. Since it’s a Ring product, full Alexa support is included, like the ability to watch through an Echo Show. Ring also has its foibles, notably the need for a Ring Protect plan to enable video recording, so plan for subscription costs for this model. Ring's battery cam is on the higher-end but offers a versatile, weather resistance option to watch kids wherever they are.  
    SCORE
   Blink's Mini 2 cam stays small but adds outdoor compatibility and more. With roommates can come a concern about keeping your room private, spotting theft or finding out who’s leaving all the dirty dishes. You may want a compact, simple cam that can watch over a small space without interfering too much with your budget. The Blink Mini 2, available at $40, is a nice answer for rental situations, dorms and similar spaces. It's pricier than the Blink Mini, but we've seen deals for as low as $20 and you get a lot more versatility in the same size. The 1080p resolution is plenty to keep a watch on a room, and this cam includes handy features from larger models like motion detection and app alerts to show when someone enters your room. Setup couldn’t be easier, especially if you use Alexa voice commands. That also means you can make sure anyone knows you’re shutting the cam down for privacy with a command like, “Alexa turn off the Blink cam.” And if you want to ask what someone’s doing in your room, the two-way audio will let you do it in real-time. The sore point is the lack of video storage without an extra hub or subscription, but you may be willing to accept this low-cost solution without that capability. Please note: Tell your roommates you're getting a security cam if you buy one, and if you want to set it up in a more public spot, make sure everyone agrees on when, where and why. Even your roommates are protected by the law, which gives an expectation of privacy, especially when they’re in their own bedrooms, the bathroom or other private areas. Blink's Mini 2 cam stays small but adds outdoor compatibility and more. Local storage-only cameras offer hard drives to load and manage video footage. It’s a little more complicated than whisking away video into the cloud but also helps protect your privacy in case of data breaches. While you usually have to clear the drive manually, you never have to worry about subscription fees. This Lorex cam is one of your best choices for the local storage route, with a 16GB microSD card (replaceable) included with the cost (a Fusion hub is also an alternative). We like the 2K resolution for adding extra detail to this cam and are glad to see motion detection with person recognition at no additional cost. The cam has essentials like night vision (infrared) and two-way audio, plus compatibility with both Alexa and Google Assistant voice assistants. There’s not a lot of extra bells and whistles otherwise, but as a no-nonsense cam with a higher resolution and everything you need right on the device, it’s an excellent choice. Many cams with accurate motion detection can catch pets walking around, but if you want a truly pet-focused indoor camera, this Furbo model lets you do so much more. In addition to the 360-degree rotating capabilities (it’s designed to be placed in a convenient spot on the floor), it comes with motion and sound detection, pet tracking, and the ability to toss out a preloaded treat for a little bit of fun. You can also zoom in to take a close look at pet activities, and there’s two-way audio to see if your pet wants to talk. We chose the subscription version, which costs $7 per month but adds very important features for pet lovers, including cloud video storage, history and even a “vomit alert.” Technically, there’s both a dog and cat version of the pet cam, but the biggest difference is that the cat version has an added toy on a wire: Other features should be largely the same. Fair warning: Pets can react in many different ways to pet cams. Some are terrified, some love them and some will frequently attack the talking camera, so mileage may vary -- a lot. If it’s your first time with a pet cam, we suggest trying a test like putting your smartphone or smart speaker beside your pet and using FaceTime or a similar capability to call and talk to them. Watch how they interact for an idea of how they’ll do with a pet cam. Furbo's subscription cam packs in a whole lot for pet owners. CNET has tested every major home security camera since the market exploded in 2011 with the first DropCam. Here are links to some recent cameras we've tested among the others listed above. We've also included a few early impressions of cameras I'm still reviewing.  GE Cync Smart Indoor Security Camera: The GE Cync isn't a bad camera, and makes a very viable alternative to a low-cost camera that still has all the important features like motion detection, two-way audio, voice assistant compatibility and more. It didn't quite make our list since the TP-Link Tapo cam can do more while costing less, and the Blink Mini is a more compact, easy-to-manage option.  Blurams Dome Lite 2: What we like most about this camera, other than the $40 price (although it can be found on sale), is that the notifications come with a timestamp to inform me exactly when the motion was detected. Most cameras will alert in real-time, but not display when the event occurred. We also appreciate the timestamp function and see how it could be used to identify when and how often a child is moving during the night. It also features full 360-degree panning, but you'll have to swipe and swipe the camera feed to get there.   Netatmo Smart Indoor Camera: This smart indoor camera, formerly called the Welcome, sports 1080p HD streaming, a 130-degree field of view, night vision and local storage via a microSD slot. It's a good bit more expensive than some of the other indoor home security cameras on our list at ~$200, but the Netatmo Smart Indoor Camera has the unique feature of Apple HomeKit Secure Video compatibility.  Wansview Q5: A good camera with decent video quality (1080p), better than average pan range (320 degrees), and a low cost (currently $20 on Amazon). We also like the mounting bracket that came with the camera. Instead of a semi-permanent mount with drywall anchors and screws, the Wansview Q5 comes with an adjustable clamp that will easily attach to a shelf, counter or railing without putting holes in your wall.  When we discover new indoor cameras from Amazon, Google and other top tech and security companies, we'll get our hands on them for testing as they become available and update this article accordingly.   Hands-on testing in a real-world environment, or as close as we can get to it, is the best way to uncover what these products can and can't do, and that's what we strive to accomplish. Basic testing includes analyzing setup, testing with compatible voice assistants and plenty of live view analysis to see how the detail is on a phone, how the zoom works and how to enable important features like two-way audio. We also tested the clarity of the speakers. Then we break out the dance moves and test motion detection, video storage (and speedy deletion) and how accurate alert functions are. When reviewing cameras, we pay special attention to price and general performance along with special features and smart home compatibility to determine which cameras are best for certain applications. If you want to read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security cameras, video doorbells and other devices.  Look for views that match the unique needs of your space and where you plan on placing the camera. Most high-quality indoor cameras have around a 130-degree field of view (and some of our picks go beyond that), but you don’t need to break out a protractor; that’s plenty of coverage to get a great view of a room when placed in a corner or centered against a far wall. For the best coverage or to cover multiple angles from a central location, you’ll want a PTZ camera instead. One advantage of smart indoor cameras is that they’re significantly less expensive than hardy outdoor versions while still offering many of the same features. If you want to save money, take a look at picks from well-known brands for $30 and below. We have a few examples on our list. Generally, don’t pay over $100 for an indoor cam unless you’re getting a lot of extra benefits and features for it. Indoor security cams are less likely to have their own lights or other sources of illumination nearby save dim nightlights. If you really want an eye inside your home at night when lights are off, excellent night vision is necessary. Look for multiple infrared LEDs if you can find them, with color night if it’s available. Motion detection turns on the camera only when it detects movement, especially movement by humans, so it’s a necessary feature to save on video storage and battery life. Detection pairs well with alerts for your phone while away from home, but you’ll want smart alerts that can recognize people or specific situations like alarms, pets barking, etc. Indoor cameras work particularly well with voice commands like, “Turn off camera,” or “Show me living room camera view.” Good cams work with both Google Home/Assistant and Alexa, but they’re harder to find, and Apple Home models are even tougher to locate. Matter (the smart home standard) compatibility is also important, and you can read more about that in our guides, but it currently doesn’t apply to security cams because the protocol hasn’t expanded to video footage yet. Wait for a future update for this part. If you do already have a home security system from a brand like Abode, ADT or Frontpoint, you should look for an indoor cam that’s compatible with that app or control panel. Depending on your security needs, you may want to look for features like two-way audio to hold conversations with a nanny/housekeeper (or say high to a pet). Others like features such as intelligent tracking, lots of zoom options and a built-in siren. We won’t say these are always necessary, but if you find them valuable then our picks above include extras like these. Video storage is somewhat more useful outside the home where catching porch pirates, potential burglars and funny animal videos is important. Many people also want video recording inside their homes, especially if they’re worried about break-ins or general malfeasance (or once again, capturing cute pet videos). Cloud storage backs videos up automatically into a cloud service, and with rare exceptions like Google Nest, you’ll need to pay a subscription fee for the ability. Local storage uploads videos to a hub or a microSD card (usually separate purchases), and you may have to connect them to a computer for additional management when they get full, but ongoing fees aren’t required. Watch for brands that have good privacy records or brands that take necessary steps to secure their networks and remove vulnerabilities immediately. You don’t want a data breach putting your privacy at risk, or worse bugs like the video caching issue that let Wyze users accidentally see out of other people’s cameras. We’ll work to keep you up to date on the latest privacy issues and what you should know when purchasing security devices like these. Most indoor security cameras are of the DIY variety, meaning you can buy and install the camera and view the live camera feed without any upfront or ongoing fees, other than the initial purchase price. Where you're likely to encounter fees is with cloud storage.  Companies usually charge a monthly fee to use up that server space, around $3 to $5 per month with annual discounts. Very few offer free cloud storage, but you can still find it on Google Nest. Local storage on a hard drive in your home is still free, but you'll need a compatible device. That means finding a cam that has a microSD card slot or a cam that's compatible with a security hub you can purchase and put in a secure spot. Some cameras give you a choice between subscriptions, local storage or both. There's a final caveat: Some security cams pack so many important features like video storage, person identification and more behind their subscriptions that a monthly fee is required to get full use of the camera, making it more or less mandatory. We break down the details further in our picks. We don't recommend hiding cameras for surveillance purposes like recording an unsuspecting babysitter. If you'd like to make your camera blend in better with your home decor, consider hiding it among artificial plants, on bookshelves or in glass-covered cabinets. Tiny cams like the Blink Mini are more likely to fit in small spaces.  You'll want to avoid breaking any laws. Privacy laws can vary by state, but the running metric is "a reasonable expectation of privacy," which means when people assume they can do private things in an area, they can't be legally recorded. So could you legally record a nanny in the living room? Probably, but it's a good idea to let them know you have security cameras in the first place. Could you record them legally in the bathroom? Absolutely not. A little common sense goes a long way. Indoor security cameras are a great addition to any DIY home security setup and cost as little as $30 up to $100 (or more) with no ongoing monthly fees. If you have children or pets you want to keep an eye on, or want to ensure no unexpected visitors are lurking in your home while you're away, indoor security cameras are an effective, inexpensive way to do just that. In short, the peace of mind that comes with owning an indoor home security camera can be well worth the initial cost. This common request has several different answers, all important, so we’ll break it down. Don't use an indoor security camera outside unless it’s rated for outside weather. Some security cams are “indoor/outdoor” models that can handle some rain and lower temperatures, but most indoor cams aren’t rated for outdoor use and will fail. We wouldn’t recommend using any of our current indoor picks outdoors. You can certainly position an indoor security camera so that it looks through a window, and many people do this. Glare can be an issue, and the camera won’t work at night to view outdoor spaces, which is usually when you most want an outdoor camera. We’d recommend spending a little bit more and getting an affordable outdoor cam when possible. It's illegal to position an indoor camera so that it overlooks someone else’s yard or looks into their windows. That violates the expectation of privacy rule we mentioned above, among other problems.