My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now India’s electric vehicle company, Ather Energy, announced plans to enter the international market by launching the export of its flagship model 450X in Nepal. Ather will partner with Vaidya Energy, a subsidiary of Vaidya's Organization of Industries & Trading Houses (VOITH) by opening its Experience Centre in Kathmandu in November. The international expansion comes after Ather’s huge success in domestic markets. The 450 series made up 75 percent of the market shares in the EV segment and became the premium leader in EVs This move also comes as Nepal is making a shift towards clean mobility options and presents a promising proposition for companies to understand new markets in terms of product performance and acceptability. While expanding retail operations in Nepal, Ather Energy will create a favourable ecosystem to facilitate a stress-free transition to EVs. The partnership between Ather Energy and Vaidya Energy will redefine the electric two-wheeler market in Nepal by making high-performance EVs more accessible to Nepalese consumers. Vaidya Energy will facilitate the sales and service of Ather products in Nepal. Vaidya Energy will also set up fast-charging stations, Ather Grids, as part of this partnership to solve range-related concerns about the EV. Chief Business Officer of Ather, Ravneet Phokela said that Nepal as a smaller market compared to India and China will provide great insight into the company's international foray. He said, “We see Nepal’s automobile market as a microcosm of the rising global consciousness over switching to cleaner mobility choices. In line with our ecosystem approach of market creation, we will also roll out our public fast-charging infrastructure, which has proven to be a huge differentiator for us in India.”
                               Discover the latest business news, Sensex, and Nifty updates. Obtain Personal Finance insights, tax queries, and expert opinions on Moneycontrol or download the Moneycontrol App to stay updated!
              Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.