Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the Bhartiya Janata Party's (BJP) election campaign in Rajasthan Bikaner district on Saturday. While addressing a rally, PM Modi launched a scathing attack against the ruling Congress and said for the last 4 years the entire party and the Rajasthan government have been fighting among themselves. “Congress ka matlab hai loot ki dukan, jhooth ka bazaar'...Farmers of Rajasthan have suffered the most due to the Congress government...Ever since the Congress government came to power in Rajasthan, what did they do? For 4 years, the entire Congress party and the government have been fighting among themselves. Everyone is pulling each other's legs,” PM Modi said. #WATCH | 'Congress ka matlab hai loot ki dukan, jhooth ka bazaar'...Farmers of Rajasthan have suffered the most due to the Congress government...Ever since the Congress government came to power in Rajasthan, what did they do? For 4 years, the entire Congress party and the… pic.twitter.com/R6yONkP0L1 PM Modi said that to ensure development, stability in governance is very important and since the Congress came to power in Rajasthan there are infightings within the party and the government. He alleged that the factions within Congress are working to strengthen their camp openly with people being lured from one camp to another. PM Modi alleged that the Union Government starts schemes for the Rajasthan government claws at them in Jaipur. “We send schemes from Delhi to Rajasthan but in Jaipur the Congress claws at them. Congress has nothing to do with Rajasthan's problems and your problems. The Congress government is also troubled by the BJP's plan to provide benefits to every household. Congress has only done harm to the state in the past years,” PM Modi alleged.  Prime Minister added that the enthusiasm of the people is telling that the temperature of the people has risen against the Congress government. "The enthusiasm of the people is telling that not only the temperature of the weather has risen in Rajasthan, but the temperature of the people has also risen against the Congress government. When the temperature of the public rises, it does not take time for the heat of power to subside and the power to change," PM Modi said.  Catch all the Business News, Politics news,Breaking NewsEvents andLatest News Updates on Live Mint. Download TheMint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.