The DStv Content Creator Awards unveiled their highly anticipated nominees list at a vibrant event in Johannesburg. The annual awards celebrate the best and… The SAB Foundation, a South African grant-making organization, is inviting applications for its Tholoana Enterprise Programme. This sought-after 18-month program empowers small business owners… A wave of excitement swept through Alexandra township as 33 grandmothers, or “gogos,” celebrated their graduation from the GOGOs with Vuma digital skills training… Fintech innovation is increasingly targeting the world’s most influential consumer group: women. With women controlling a staggering 75% of global discretionary spending, fintech providers… South Africa boasts a vibrant financial sector, yet green SMEs, those championing sustainability and circular economy, often struggle to access the funding they need… South African CEOs are swiftly embracing generative AI solutions, aiming to boost operational efficiency and innovation, according to a recent IBM study. However, this… The Huawei ICT Academy Annual Instructor Summit has emerged as a cornerstone in the global landscape of digital education. By convening educators, industry experts,… Samsung Electronics unveiled what it describes as bespoke AI which means personalized home appliances intended to become much more than home appliances. What is… Samsung Electronics has announced the expansion of its innovative Circle to Search feature to select Galaxy A series devices. This development marks a significant… EVs have never been a core issue in American elections. The American auto industry’s Big Three make profits from large pick-up trucks and ladder-frame… EX30 is Volvo’s sub-R1m EV offering. The Swedish brand has been a pioneering EV marketeer in South African, and this crossover model range is… Audi started small. Not in terms of ambition, but vehicle size. When Audi established itself as a standalone brand from VW, it had compact… The innovative AI technology developed by Moroccan startup ATLAN Space  has attracted a $1.1-million Series A funding round from Maroc Numeric Fund. ATLAN Space… Startup launchpad DEMO Africa has announced the top 30 finalists that will pitch at its seventh annual conference in Casablanca, Morocco this October. The announcement follows… The African Innovation Foundation (AIF) has announced the top 10 nominees for next month’s 2017 Innovation Prize for Africa (IPA), which will take place in Accra, Ghana…. © Memeburn 2024, a Burn Media publication. No article may be published or reproduced without prior written permission from Memeburn. To improve your experience, deliver personalised content and advertising. Find out more by reading our cookie policy. Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. sign up Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. By signing up for this email you agree to receive the latest info from Burnmedia Group. Learn more via our Privacy Policy.