Comment Using data to make better decisions faster helps startups in the crowded SaaS space improve product development, identify hidden market opportunities and complete work with fewer false steps, important priorities as these startups seek out a piece of the booming SaaS market, projected to increase by 19.7% over the next six years.   A Singapore- and California-based startup called Houseware has built a platform that ingests data to help startups in those efforts. Today Houseware is emerging from stealth with $2.1 million led by Tanglin Ventures Partners with participation from GTMfund and Better Capital, as well as angel investors from among some of the most iconic, scaled-up SaaS companies around, including execs from Snowflake, Superhuman, Stripe, Zendesk and others.  When Divyansh Saini, co-founder and CEO of Houseware, was at data analytics company Atlan, he had a chance to work directly with companies like WeWork, Postman and Plaid. Saini noticed a disconnect between how data teams talked about, say, metrics and what revenue teams demanded out of those numbers.  “[Traditionally,] the data team sits farther away from the problems and is treated as a service function,” spending weeks modeling data for particular use cases, Saini said.  Houseware was founded in 2021 by Shubhankar Srivastava and Saini with a simple question: “What would it take to flip the value of the data warehouse from data and engineering teams to the revenue function inside organizations?”  Houseware, which offers an easy-to-use, no-code interface for operations and revenue teams, wants to bring SaaS companies closer to using data more efficiently in their day-to-day use cases across businesses.   Houseware allows users, for example, in the customer success team, to model insights on the go on product pricing, which in turn can then be used by finance teams as they consider how to alter those prices, Saini explained.  This is significant because while products like Snowflake have made it easy to work with large volumes of data at scale in the last half a decade, most companies’ revenue teams are still untouched by that paradigm shift, according to Saini.  Houseware’s target customers are SaaS enterprises with more than 1,000 employees. The company says its end users are revenue, marketing and sales groups, as well as marketing and finance analysts. Houseware tracks the percentage of employees activated as a key metric across companies using its platform.  “We have seen up to 30% of an organization’s employees being regular users of Houseware,” Saini, who likes to speak about “democratizing access,” said. It has onboarded users from public SaaS companies, and the fastest growing edtech and SaaS companies, among others over the last couple of quarters. Houseware considers Clari and People.ai its closest competition, alongside some horizontal platforms like Thoughtspot, Saini told TechCrunch. He also pointed out that companies like Retool, which raised $45 million at a valuation of $3.2 billion last year, and Streamlit, which was acquired by Snowflake for $800 million, have made the space popular for developers and data scientists, respectively; Houseware aims to do the same for non-technical users.  People.ai, the predictive sales startup, raises $60M at around $500M valuation  Saini told TechCrunch it is “currently building out a layer of intelligence on top of customer data using machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to solve for use cases like identifying the risk of churn” and “building intelligent account health scores on top of customer data.” The startup is looking to roll these out for its customers in Q2 and Q3 of 2023, Saini added.  The company also plans to grow its team, hire for go-to-market roles in the U.S. and double down on its partnerships with Snowflake and dbt Labs.  “Executives across the revenue function are under tremendous pressure to find avenues for growth,” Saini said in a statement. “Investors are focused on solid unit economics and the path to profitability, so a lot will depend on hard-core, disciplined, top decile business execution.”  “Data and metrics have come into sharp focus over the past six months across SaaS businesses with board meetings now seeking answers to the cost of customer acquisition, which lead channels are working the best or how product usage links to churn,” Saini said in its statement.  Note: The original version of this article has been updated to correct that the company’s funding amount is $2.1 million, not $ 2.2 million.  Clari revenue forecasting platform snags $150M investment and triples valuation to $1.6B  DataJoy raises $6M seed to help SaaS companies track key business metrics  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  MIT this week showcased tiny batteries designed specifically for the purpose of power these systems to execute varied tasks.  Rimac revealed Friday during The Quail, a Motorsports Gathering at Monterey Car Week the Nevera R, an all-electric hypercar that’s meant to push the performance bounds of its predecessor.  While the ethics of AI-generated porn are still under debate, using the technology to create nonconsensual sexual imagery of people is, I think we can all agree, reprehensible. One such…  Almost two weeks ago, TechCrunch reported that African e-commerce giant Jumia was planning to sell 20 million American depositary shares (ADSs) and raise more than $100 million, given its share…  We’re entering the final week of discounted rates for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on select individual ticket types until August 23. Join a dynamic crowd of over…  Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite, announced on Friday that it has officially launched its rival iOS app store in the European Union. The Epic Games Store is also launching…  Powered by WordPress VIP