A year after Goldman Sachs researcher Daniel Enriquez was senselessly shot to death on the subway, his devastated sister has reached a heartbreaking conclusion. “He did die in vain,” Griselda Vile told The Post. Enriquez, 48, of Brooklyn, was heading to Sunday brunch in Manhattan last May 22, sitting in the last car of a Q train crossing the Manhattan Bridge at 11:42 a.m. when a deranged gunman shot him in the chest. Andrew Abdullah, 25, who spent two days on the run before being collared at Manhattan Legal Aid Society offices, was charged with second-degree murder.  He’s currently being held at the Bellevue Hospital Prison Ward. Enriquez’ death rocked his close-knit family — and from where Vile sits, not much else has changed in this violent city.  “I think my entire family is struggling daily to understand what happened and why. We don’t have the answers,” she said. “Despite numerous calls for action, despite many attempts, life goes on, the same as before. Even after the incident, meeting with elected officials did nothing.” “Daniel and I always felt New York was our home and birthright. We felt we belonged here in the multicultural and vibrant city,” she said. Mayor Adams “never even presented himself to my parents on the numerous opportunities, nor has he checked in on any of us. I voted for him but honestly, what has that gotten me?” Meanwhile, Vile struggles to get through the days.  “The question I know I hate being asked is, ‘How are you doing?'” she said. “How do you think it feels to have your brother murdered without cause on the most sacred of all days — Sundays? How does it feel when your older brother is executed on a train full of passengers with no one in the entire train able to react?” Vile will not say Abdullah’s name.  “I refuse to give this individual space in my head while my heart aches for my brother’s hug,” she explained. “That man should not have been in the streets. My brother’s death was 100 percent preventable, but [former Mayor Bill] de Blasio and his cronies, set a system that benefits criminals and endangers our communities.” Enriquez lived in Park Slope with his partner of 18 years, Adam Pollack, who blamed surging crime in the city subway system for the slaying. The loving sister said she has taken the train “a few times” since her brother’s murder and “it was unbearable.”  The 44-year-old middle-school Spanish teacher said meeting with elected officials did nothing and she doesn’t have time to become an anti-crime “crusader.”  “I have spent the last 20 years serving this city as an educator, trying to survive in my own classroom and help the future generations,” the Queens mom said. “I have two children who lost their beloved grandfather the year before. Their mental health, their well being and normalcy is my focus.” The family misses Daniel’s “zest for life, playing the guitar and piano, the hundred of videos of his koi pond” posted to Facebook, “his smile, his laugh and sense of humor. “My whole life, my brother has been my protector, mentor and biggest cheerleader,” she added. “He enjoyed food and company. He lived his best life in New York City prior to his murder. He enjoyed the Williamsburg scene in the ’90s and settled with his partner in Park Slope. He was by all means a typical New Yorker.” But now, “I don’t feel safe” in the city, Vile said. Monday will be the first anniversary of Enriquez’ killing.  On Sunday the family will attend mass at Transfiguration Roman Catholic Church in Brooklyn, “which has a special place in our hearts. Daniel was baptized there,” she noted. As for the future, Vile said she is “considering moving out of the city but pulling my kids from their life right now would really hurt them emotionally. I also do not run away from problems. I just don’t know what to do. I do not wish this on anyone. Losing Daniel broke me. Because we had survived so much together. I lost him. We lost him. We lost him forever.” Advertisement