By Sarah Liversidge For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:46 EDT, 20 July 2023   |  Updated:  03:51 EDT, 20 July 2023      1 View  comments  Tech billionaire Scott Farquhar has blasted return to office mandates and defended staff working from home, revealing half of new staff at his company now work remotely. Speaking at the the National Tech Summit in Brisbane on Thursday, the co-founder of software giant Atlassian lambasted the move by some of Australia's largest employers to mandate people work from the office at least two days a week. 'So I have to get in my car and drive to the office to sit in a cubicle and zoom with other workers who are at home because the two days I work in the office are different from the days they are in the office,' he said, according to the Courier Mail. Mr Farquhar, who last year had a public run-in with Elon Musk over work from home rules, said 53 per cent of new employees recruited by Atlassian over the past two years live more than two hours from a company office. 'So that means half our employees we've hired over the last few years couldn't have come to work for us if we didn't have that flexible and reliable working environment,' he said. His comment comes as debate continues to rage around working from home with Commonwealth Bank ordering staff to return to the office for at least half of the week while public sector workers have won the right to stay at home forever.  Mr Farquhar's leniency towards staff working from home also comes despite implementing a strict five-tier performance ranking system for his workers.  Atlassion co-founder Scott Farquhar (pictured right with Kim Jackson) has slammed companies who mandate their employees return to the office instead of working from home  Mr Farquhar said that attracting and retaining talent in the tech sector was becoming increasingly vital if Australia was to maintain its claim as the 'Lucky Country'.   He said flexible working conditions could be an advantage to states such as Queensland in not having to attract entire companies to benefit from growth in the booming tech sector.  'Remote work is one of the best things that could happen to Queensland because for years they've been trying to attract people from Melbourne and Sydney but to do that previously they had to attract an entire company to move up to here,' Mr Farquhar said.  'We have 170 people who work for Atlassian in Queensland and we don't have a single office here. Last week, Commonwealth Bank employees said they were being treated like 'kids' by having to log their attendance on a roll call system before the bank's mandatory return to office.  An email was sent to the Commonwealth Bank's 49,000 staff that required employees to return to the office for at least 50 per cent of their work time per month from July 17. It resulted in hundreds of complaints from workers that were filed to the Finance Sector Union, with some threatening to quit their jobs. The Bank explained that the internal roll system is a voluntary app designed to help locate colleagues in the workplace. Mr Farquhar said more than half of new employees recruited by Atlassian over the past two years live more than two hours from a company office Commonwealth Bank employees were last week told to return to the office for at least 50 per cent of their work time per month from July 17 Meanwhile, staff of one of Australia's biggest employers last week won the permanent right to work from home, worth $10,000 a year in cost savings. Under a deal agreed with unions on July 11, the Australian public service will not be able to impose limits on the number of days its 176,000 employees can work from home. Federal government agencies are required to 'lean towards' approving WFH requests with a presumption they should be approved. They can only refuse after genuinely trying to reach an agreement and there are reasonable business grounds not to approve, with workers being able to challenge a refusal in the Fair Work Commission. Earlier this month, it was revealed that Atlassian and graphic design app Canva were using five-tier staff performance rankings similar to industry giants Microsoft and Amazon. The changing cultures at both companies - which have for years spruiked staff perks and fun offices as crucial to business successes - came as key metrics tumbled, prompting calls to operate more efficiently. Atlassian announced in June it had cut 480 lower management positions, directing those employees to work on the 'frontlines' of the business in coding jobs. In March this year Atlassian made 500 people redundant. Pictured: Atlassian co-founder Mike Cannon-Brookes with wife Annie during 2016 fashion week Atlassian's employee assessment categories for 2023 are unrecognizable from last year's, which said 95 per cent of all staff had either 'great' or an 'exceptional year', rewarding them with bonuses and company shares. Only five per cent of were told they'd had an 'off year'. But when Atlassian managers assess staff for their work in the 2022-23 year, the number who will be told they must improve will double on the previous year, the AFR reported. Six per cent of staff will be told they 'met most expectations' while four per cent will get an ominous 'did not meet expectations'. Forty-five per cent will be told they 'met expectations', while 30 per cent will hear that they 'exceeded expectations'. About 15 per cent of staff will be told they 'greatly exceeded expectations'. Staff in the top two categories are understood to be in line for increases in financial rewards. People in the middle should get their full contracted bonus, and people on the lowest grade risk receiving no bonus or share grant for that year at all. Those in the bottom rankings risk getting no bonus or shares for that year at all. In March, this year Atlassian made 500 people redundant, or five per percent of its workforce.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group