We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Apply to connect people to a supported accommodation service. If you want to connect to a supported accommodation service, you must complete a ‘Connect to a children’s social service SC2 form’. This form is the same form for all types of children’s social care. This guidance explains how to complete the form as someone connecting to a supported accommodation service. It also explains who needs to fill in this form, as this depends on your role and when you are applying to connect to the service. The following people need to submit an SC2 form: We will ask for information about the service you want to register with us, and for personal and professional information about you. The registration form consists of the following sections: The form will ask you for a lot of information. If you do not have all the information to hand, you can save the form and return to it later. If the service you are connecting to is already registered with Ofsted, we will need its unique reference number (URN). We also need the URN of: This is so we can check our records for information we may already hold about you and any services you have previously been connected with. You must provide details of all your employment history since leaving school or full-time education. You need to include the name of all your employer(s) and the dates of employment as far as you can remember. If you returned to full time education since leaving school, record this as well. If you have gaps in your employment, you will need to explain them. You must provide the details of 2 referees who can give professional references about you. Your first referee must be your most recent employer. This referee must be a senior officer of an organisation, for example the owner, director or an HR manager. If you have been employed by them for less than 3 months, we will ask for permission to approach a previous employer who has employed you for more than 3 months for an additional reference. Your second referee must be someone who knows you in a professional capacity and must be able to comment on your work. This second referee should be someone in a different organisation to your first referee. Both referees must be able to comment on: Your most recent employer referee must also be able to comment on: Neither referee can be a relative or live at the same address as you. In the application form, you will need to upload the following documents: The following people must upload a valid Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) certificate: We consider individuals in the above roles to be engaged in ‘regulated activity’ (see the Eligibility guidance for enhanced DBS checks) and will require an Enhanced with Barred List(s) DBS check. Before submitting your application, you must have either: In the form we will ask you to agree to let us check your DBS status. You must agree in order to continue with your application. We also strongly recommend that you subscribe to the DBS update service. If you have previously applied for a DBS check through Ofsted, contact us to check that we will still accept it as current. If you have lived abroad in the past 5 years and you are unable to provide a DBS certificate, you must contact us. We will discuss alternative evidence to demonstrate your fitness. Your application will not proceed without this discussion. The name on the DBS must match the name you give on the SC2 form. You must complete a health declaration form if you are in any of the following roles: This form contains questions about your current and past health so that we can determine your mental and physical suitability to provide or manage a service. Please complete the form and email it to SC.suppacc@ofsted.gov.uk when you submit your application. If you are applying to be a registered service manager, individual provider or partner, or nominated individual, once we have accepted your application we will send you a questionnaire to complete and tell you how you can return this to us. These documents cannot be more than 2mb in size. If you need to reduce the size of your documents, try to: You can upload documents as: Make sure you have read our guidance on connecting to a supported accommodation service before you start. To apply, you will need a Government Gateway account. You can create a new Government Gateway account or sign into your existing one. Find out more about a Government Gateway account.  Connect to a supported accommodation service  You can find out more about the next steps and timescales in our guidance on connecting to a supported accommodation service. Service managers will need to pay a registration fee as part of the process. If you need help with a query that is not covered in this guide or you do not understand what you need to do in your circumstances, please contact us. If you need help with your application, please email SC.suppacc@ofsted.gov.uk If you need an accessible version of the form, please email sc.admin@ofsted.gov.uk The great majority of our work is carried out smoothly and without incident. If concerns arise during registration, these should be raised with the inspector, their manager or the applications team as soon as possible. This provides an opportunity to resolve the matter before the registration is completed. If it has not been possible to resolve concerns in this way, you can raise a formal complaint through our complaints procedure. You can get in touch at: SC.suppacc@ofsted.gov.uk Ofsted, Piccadilly Gate, Store Street, Manchester, M1 2WD Legislation Regulations for all providers   Updated information about DBS checks required by supported accommodation applicants. Link to the online registration form added. First published. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      