Madison  Producer Sports Reporter The Pentagon said Sunday night F-16 fighter jets launched from Truax Field in Madison shot down an unidentified object flying over Lake Huron at the orders of President Biden. Gen. Glen Vanherck confirmed the jets took off at Truax Field and later brought that unidentified object down. It wa… MADISON, Wis. - The Pentagon said Sunday night F-16 fighter jets launched from Truax Field in Madison shot down an unidentified object flying over Lake Huron at the orders of President Biden. It was the third time in as many days an unidentified object has been shot down by U.S. forces in North American airspace. Gen. Glen Vanherck confirmed the jets took off at Truax Field and later brought that unidentified object down. It was reportedly flying at around 20,000 feet.  Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said those F-16 jets belonged to the 148th Fighter Wing of the Minnesota Air National Guard, and were flown by its airmen who happened to be at Truax Field Sunday afternoon. Military officials believe it's likely the object is the same one seen flying in the skies of Montana Saturday night, which forced a brief closure of airspace near the town of Havre for what the Federal Aviation Administration said were Department of Defense activities. Dr. David Fields, UW’s Associate Director of the Center for East Asian Studies, says little is known about the objects that have been shot down. "It's possible that they are just weather balloons. It's possible that they are just drones for some other purpose. We literally do not know right now what these other three have been," Fields said. "It could be that they have nothing to do with China." As we learn more, Fields says how the U.S. government reacts will be closely watched. "I think the real danger of these balloons is that they’re creating an environment where the test of any US policy towards China is whether we look weak or not, not what furthers American interest," Fields said. On Monday, Wisconsin Rep. Mike Gallagher called on President Joe Biden and his administration to provide more answers to the questions that have come out of the recent discoveries. "We need answers from the Pentagon. We need answers from the President himself. There are times to err on the side of secrecy in national security operations. But when our fighter pilots are shooting down presumably hostile aerial objects all across America, it’s long past time for transparency," Rep. Gallagher said in a statement. ​COPYRIGHT 2023 BY CHANNEL 3000. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED, BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED. Producer   Sports Reporter   Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: