 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Robb Report may receive an affiliate commission.   If you’re an attentive bourbon fan, you were likely surprised to hear the news last year that Maker’s Mark master distiller Denny Potter and head of innovation and blending Jane Bowie were leaving the storied Kentucky distillery to embark upon a new venture. While there haven’t been many details about what the pair were going to be up to, we finally have some information to share. More from Robb Report Taste Test: Metallica's Blackened Whiskey Releases Its Best Expression Yet This Underdog Whiskey Just Won Best in Show at the NY Wine and Spirits Competition Basil Hayden Just Dropped an Unusually Soft and Sweet Rye  This isn’t a singular event by any means—over the past few years other notable figures have left major distilleries. These include Jack Daniel’s master distiller Jeff Arnett moving on to Company Distilling and Old Forester master taster Jackie Zykan cofounding the new Hidden Barn Whiskey. Bowie and Potter seem to have left Maker’s on good terms, and managing director Rob Samuels offered some glowing words about their contribution to the distillery and brand upon their departure. Now comes the news of their new venture, aptly called Potter Jane Distilling Company, a new distillery that will be located in Springfield, Kentucky which is not far from Bardstown, the epicenter of bourbon.  Bowie and Potter celebrated the official groundbreaking for the new distillery on September 13 with more than 200 guests attending the event. Potter Jane Distilling Company will encompass 36,000 square feet over 153 acres and will employ about 40 people. The distillery will have the capacity to store 45,000 barrels for maturation onsite, with two initial warehouses that can each store 24,000 casks. Construction will begin this fall, and according to a lighthearted statement in the press release, “They plan to be operational by January of 2025 (if they don’t kill each other first).”  The production model will be to produce contract whiskey and lay down stock for the Potter Jane house brand. We reached out to Jane Bowie to get some more specific info, and she told Robb Report that the distillery will make wheated bourbon, rye bourbon, and a small amount of rye whiskey (no enzymes will be added to the mash because a high percentage of malted barley will be used). Daily production will yield about 150 barrels using a copper column still with a copper doubler. There are plans to build a smaller experimental warehouse with different micro-climates to see how that affects the whiskey. They will not be sourcing any whiskey or contract distilling—instead they will contract distill for other brands while their own whiskey matures. “[Our] long-term whiskey goal will be seven to eight years old but really we won’t know our product’s maturation curve until we are in it,” she said. “We plan to bring folks along on this journey so will release younger whiskey, but [our] ultimate goal is in this age range for our standard product.” The brand name is still TBD.  Of course, it’ll be some time before we get to try any of this new whiskey, but in the meantime you can reminisce about the Potter-Bowie days at Maker’s Mark by sipping on some of that distillery’s excellent bourbon, much of which can be found for sale from websites like ReserveBar. Best of Robb Report Why a Heritage Turkey Is the Best Thanksgiving Bird—and How to Get One 9 Stellar West Coast Pinot Noirs to Drink Right Now The 10 Best Wines to Pair With Steak, From Cabernet to Malbec Sign up for Robb Report's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.