Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 I recently spoke to The Chamber’s Young Professionals Council. What do you tell young people today that will be important to them? After all, I’m  in my 70s and grew up in what seems to be a whole different universe.But speaking to this incredible group of wide-eyed inheritors of our future was one amazing experience. I actually see and feel myself in their surprisingly, fully attentive faces. That was me out there in the packed audience, in what seemed like yesterday, full of boundless energy and hope.Looking back on my career, the march to “success” was both challenging and exhilarating.  In my early stages, there was nothing to lose. I was at the bottom, dreaming of what being at the top must feel like. I thought successful executives had a lock on knowledge, and that universe was way out of my reach. But to my complete surprise, it worked out far better than I ever expected. I was more worthy than I ever dreamed.I realized early in my career that I had catching up to do. Given my minimal education by today’s standards, I knew I needed to grab knowledge from every person and situation I encountered. So I made it a point to learn everything possible from some very bright and successful Lehigh Valley folks. Some leaders of the business community, some relatives, some regular people who unknowingly planted a seed of knowledge that would stick with me for a lifetime.I hung on their every word if they caught my curiosity. I loved the quotes of wisdom they threw out. Some bordered on the comical, some a deeper message, but all life-impacting for me. There’s lots of knowledge surrounding you. Keep your eyes wide open and your ears aware and be willing to change. In the end, it’ll pay serious dividends.I’m actually thankful for my often mercurial self-esteem. It made me humbly accept criticism and open to being better. I knew I wasn’t the smartest guy on the planet, but I planned on being a bit smarter every day.So here we go, some of my “eyes wide open” tidbits of knowledge I hope you’ll enjoy, laugh, and maybe even connect with one or two.

“Money can’t buy happiness” As long as you’re not the “never have enough” type, it can, in my opinion. Some people find their total value in money and keep score of where they stand compared to others. For me, it was about security. As one who tends to worry, knowing I pretty much got it covered was freeing.“Nice guys (people) finish last”Baloney! I know pretty nice people who have done great things. In fact, most successful types I know are pretty nice people. And many of them want to lift others up. Nice guys finish first a lot, even if they don’t care if they do. Besides, who wants to be a “successful” jerk?“Sooner or later, people will let you down”Ok, maybe sometimes, but sooner or later, good people will lift you up. Whether it’s at your job, in your neighborhood, or just people you come in contact with, there are a lot of good people out there who will lift you up. Keep your eyes open; they’re around you. Find them and let them know you need advice or help of some kind. You’ll be surprised that they too needed help at a point in their lives and can relate. Oh, and by the way, in the end, let them know how grateful you are for their help.“Rich people are really smart”No, they’re really rich. But not always reflective or cerebral. Be open to people who maybe don’t prioritize wealth but know life’s secrets. Don’t get me wrong, there are lots of really smart wealthy types, but they don’t have a lock on brilliance.“Bad things happen to good people”Yes, at times unfortunately. This one really bothers me. Don’t get me wrong, I respect God’s will. I hope in the afterlife it evens out because I’ve seen some mean people have what appears to be a pretty good thing going.“Hard work pays off”It certainly does. Hard workers outpace more slothful types almost always. But I must add that smart workers win the race. I’ve seen some people who aren’t killing themselves on a daily basis do exceptionally well. Sometimes, over-workers miss the goal in their self-exhausting march to succeed. Take blue sky time to stop and look at where you’re at in life.“Learning to love yourself is the greatest love of all”You know how hard it is for really good self-critical types to love themselves? Oh, they can critique themselves, be disappointed in themselves, and even say bad things about themselves, but truly love themselves? That’s a stretch. We’re all imperfect, but we’re more often darn good and pretty darn nice. Remember to be good to yourself and love yourself. It makes everyone around you better off.So, remember for those of you starting your career: No matter how tough it may get, you’ll get through it. Just when you feel you can’t take anymore, the bright light at the end of the tunnel will shine. When you look back at most of what you thought was supremely important, it doesn’t really matter in the end. Stay true to you, love and help others, and while you’re dishing out love, save a good measure for you. You deserve it!Tony Iannelli is president and CEO of the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce. He can be reached at tonyi@lehighvalleychamber.org. But speaking to this incredible group of wide-eyed inheritors of our future was one amazing experience. I actually see and feel myself in their surprisingly, fully attentive faces. That was me out there in the packed audience, in what seemed like yesterday, full of boundless energy and hope. Looking back on my career, the march to “success” was both challenging and exhilarating.  In my early stages, there was nothing to lose. I was at the bottom, dreaming of what being at the top must feel like. I thought successful executives had a lock on knowledge, and that universe was way out of my reach. But to my complete surprise, it worked out far better than I ever expected. I was more worthy than I ever dreamed. I realized early in my career that I had catching up to do. Given my minimal education by today’s standards, I knew I needed to grab knowledge from every person and situation I encountered. So I made it a point to learn everything possible from some very bright and successful Lehigh Valley folks. Some leaders of the business community, some relatives, some regular people who unknowingly planted a seed of knowledge that would stick with me for a lifetime.  I hung on their every word if they caught my curiosity. I loved the quotes of wisdom they threw out. Some bordered on the comical, some a deeper message, but all life-impacting for me. There’s lots of knowledge surrounding you. Keep your eyes wide open and your ears aware and be willing to change. In the end, it’ll pay serious dividends. I’m actually thankful for my often mercurial self-esteem. It made me humbly accept criticism and open to being better. I knew I wasn’t the smartest guy on the planet, but I planned on being a bit smarter every day. So here we go, some of my “eyes wide open” tidbits of knowledge I hope you’ll enjoy, laugh, and maybe even connect with one or two.  As long as you’re not the “never have enough” type, it can, in my opinion. Some people find their total value in money and keep score of where they stand compared to others. For me, it was about security. As one who tends to worry, knowing I pretty much got it covered was freeing. Baloney! I know pretty nice people who have done great things. In fact, most successful types I know are pretty nice people. And many of them want to lift others up. Nice guys finish first a lot, even if they don’t care if they do. Besides, who wants to be a “successful” jerk? Ok, maybe sometimes, but sooner or later, good people will lift you up. Whether it’s at your job, in your neighborhood, or just people you come in contact with, there are a lot of good people out there who will lift you up. Keep your eyes open; they’re around you. Find them and let them know you need advice or help of some kind. You’ll be surprised that they too needed help at a point in their lives and can relate. Oh, and by the way, in the end, let them know how grateful you are for their help. No, they’re really rich. But not always reflective or cerebral. Be open to people who maybe don’t prioritize wealth but know life’s secrets. Don’t get me wrong, there are lots of really smart wealthy types, but they don’t have a lock on brilliance. Yes, at times unfortunately. This one really bothers me. Don’t get me wrong, I respect God’s will. I hope in the afterlife it evens out because I’ve seen some mean people have what appears to be a pretty good thing going. It certainly does. Hard workers outpace more slothful types almost always. But I must add that smart workers win the race. I’ve seen some people who aren’t killing themselves on a daily basis do exceptionally well. Sometimes, over-workers miss the goal in their self-exhausting march to succeed. Take blue sky time to stop and look at where you’re at in life. You know how hard it is for really good self-critical types to love themselves? Oh, they can critique themselves, be disappointed in themselves, and even say bad things about themselves, but truly love themselves? That’s a stretch. We’re all imperfect, but we’re more often darn good and pretty darn nice. Remember to be good to yourself and love yourself. It makes everyone around you better off. So, remember for those of you starting your career: No matter how tough it may get, you’ll get through it. Just when you feel you can’t take anymore, the bright light at the end of the tunnel will shine. When you look back at most of what you thought was supremely important, it doesn’t really matter in the end. Stay true to you, love and help others, and while you’re dishing out love, save a good measure for you. You deserve it! Tony Iannelli is president and CEO of the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce. He can be reached at tonyi@lehighvalleychamber.org. Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call