NFL MOBILE, Ala. — Patrick Graham has two jobs this week. The Raiders defensive coordinator is the head coach for the National team in the Senior Bowl. So, while he’s certainly getting a head start on the hands-on evaluation process for the 2023 NFL Draft, he’s also genuinely working with the players to help them boost their stock regardless of whether they could fit into the Raiders’ plans. Advertisement Graham welcomed that opportunity when general manager Dave Ziegler and head coach Josh McDaniels approached him early in the season and asked if he would be interested in serving as a Raiders’ nominee for a coaching position in the Senior Bowl. He’s proved to be a prescient selection. The Raiders finished 6-11 in 2022 and had a rough year all around, but their defense was particularly terrible as the unit finished 26th in scoring. While quarterback and offensive line stand out as major roster holes to fill this offseason, the Raiders could use help everywhere on defense. It’s more than fair to list edge rusher, defensive tackle, linebacker, cornerback and safety all as positions of needs. It’s true that the Raiders have a lot of resources — they’ll have over $50 million in cap space after they move on from quarterback Derek Carr and could have as many as 11 picks this year starting with the No. 7 selection — but they’ll need to have a high hit rate to adequately address their defense. Graham is tasked with making the pieces fit on that side of the ball once the season gets underway, but he’ll also play a crucial role in determining who they want to bring into the fold. Participating in the Senior Bowl has given him the chance to begin that process early. “The draft starts here in Mobile,” Graham said while standing near an end zone at Hancock Whitney Stadium on Tuesday. “And I thought that was going to be a good opportunity for me to be around a bunch of players at one time, see them in the meeting room, see them on the field, see their competitive spirit and get an idea about that because all of that stuff plays into the evaluation process.” GO DEEPER Raiders GM Dave Ziegler eyes draft over free agency to rebuild roster Graham’s effort to bolster the Raiders’ defense started with a period of self-evaluation. The Raiders had substandard defensive talent to begin with, but injuries pushed it to almost untenable levels. Edge rusher Chandler Jones, linebackers Jayon Brown, Divine Deablo and Denzel Perryman and cornerbacks Rock Ya-Sin and Anthony Averett were all starters who ended the season on injured reserve, and several other contributors either missed significant time or nursed injuries throughout the season. Even still, Graham didn’t do a good enough job of game planning, adjusting on the fly and putting players in positions to succeed. With the potential to acquire better talent this offseason, he’s aware that he also must step it up a notch for the defense to make a legitimate turnaround in a division where they have to deal with star quarterbacks Patrick Mahomes and Justin Herbert along with whatever boost Sean Payton is able to give Russell Wilson and the Broncos. Advertisement “I think that the biggest thing I learned was just being patient,” Graham said. “Moving forward, it’s understanding what you got to take away and how you’re going to take it away.” There were some murmurs about Graham’s job security toward the back half of the season, but he’s not going anywhere because McDaniels believes in his scheme, developmental skills and overall coaching ability. For the defense, change will largely come in the form of roster alterations. Considering they only have three defensive players under contract with any guaranteed money remaining on their deals, they can completely revamp the unit. In order to do so effectively and build the overall roster for long-term success, the draft will obviously need to be a big part of the equation. One of the primary reasons the Raiders have so many roster issues, after all, is the miserable stretch of drafting that came from the previous regime. Graham is getting an excellent look at plenty of potential targets — on both sides of the ball — that may boost their chances of breaking that trend. Graham said the biggest benefit he has in Mobile is in the meeting rooms. “You get a chance to spend time in the meeting room, see who’s being attentive, see who can retain and then see how guys learn,” Graham said. “That’s one thing as we transition into different generations — this is going into my 15th year coaching — the players are different. You learn how these guys learn. It’s also helping me out for how I might have to adjust throughout the season in terms of teaching methods with the younger guys. “And then being out there on the field, it’s a chance for me to get my hands on them and see how they can handle a correction. Whether I’m talking to the O-line about playing inside-out or talking to a D-linemen about shooting his hands or a receiver with the stem, I see if they can take it from me talking to them about it to doing it out there on the field quickly.” Advertisement Ziegler, assistant general manager Champ Kelly, senior national scout DuJuan Daniels and several other personnel staffers joined Graham in doing their due diligence on the field at the Senior Bowl. The National and American rosters are largely comprised of prospects who won’t be selected until Day 2 and Day 3 of the draft, but their collective presence shows the importance they’re placing on gaining as much from it as they can. “You get a lot of insight,” Ziegler said Wednesday. “We all get to see the film, but we don’t get to see how the guys interact with the coaching staff. We don’t get to see how attentive they were in the meeting rooms. We don’t get to see how they were able to learn through the week. That’s all insight that if Pat’s not doing that, we don’t get that information. And that’s really valuable information. We’ll have a lot more depth of knowledge on the specific players that are here and the specific players that were on the team that Pat coached. About the person and about all the intricacies of a personality: The maturity, the accountability, all those different types of things. We just wouldn’t know if we didn’t have a coach intimately involved as Pat is as the head coach.” The Raiders won’t make any final evaluations off the Senior Bowl alone. College pro days, team visits and the combine will also create plenty of movement on their draft board. Still, every extra detail matters going into a monumentally important draft. “Once we get back, they’ll push us in the right direction in terms of who we’re looking at,” Graham said. “And then we just dive in deep on the guys and figure out if they’re guys we want in the building… We’re just seeing what we can add to our roster and see if we can improve.” (Photo: Kevin Terrell / Associated Press) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Tashan Reed  is a senior writer for The Athletic covering the Las Vegas Raiders. He previously covered Florida State football for The Athletic. Prior to joining The Athletic, he covered high school and NAIA college sports for the Columbia Missourian, Mizzou football, men’s basketball and women’s basketball for SBNation blog Rock M Nation, wrote stories focused on the African-American community for The St. Louis American and was a sports intern at the Commercial Appeal in Memphis through the Sports Journalism Institute. Follow Tashan on Twitter @tashanreed