Rajya sabha deputy speaker Harivansh  has asked people to be attentive towards moral values in all aspects of life or would have to face  anarchy.
Speaking on the occasion of releasing a book "Atit ke jharokhon se" written by veteran journalist of coalfields Bankhandi Mishra on Friday here  at ISM  Harivansh said, the book has mentioned several values of several important   persons of coalfield. This needs to be maintained for maintaining our  social values.
Quoting a newspaper article, He said positive use of AI  and chat GTP can bring revolution in the field of education and medical field if used judisusly.It can help. imparting quality education and providing best medical advice  to needy  living in remote villages.
 But if we fail to maintain the values  it can be disastrous  for  society as it can be used  as destructive weapons  that may harm the universe, he added.
It can be used for propagating false agenda  on different media  platforms, said Harivansh.
Mentioning the book as one of the great and historic  collections of memories, he said, journalists of  current days must take lessons from this book.
 IIT -ISM director Prof Rajeev Shekher, deputy director Prof Dhiraj Kumar, Jharia MLA Poornima Neeraj Singh, Dr MM Pathak  and  editors of three vernacular  dailies  too were present during the book release  ceremony.. All hailed the book of the veteran journalist .
People from walks of life were present during the function. Rajya sabha deputy speaker Harivansh  has asked people to be attentive towards moral values in all aspects of life or would have to face  anarchy. Speaking on the occasion of releasing a book "Atit ke jharokhon se" written by veteran journalist of coalfields Bankhandi Mishra on Friday here  at ISM  Harivansh said, the book has mentioned several values of several important   persons of coalfield. This needs to be maintained for maintaining our  social values. Quoting a newspaper article, He said positive use of AI  and chat GTP can bring revolution in the field of education and medical field if used judisusly.It can help. imparting quality education and providing best medical advice  to needy  living in remote villages.  But if we fail to maintain the values  it can be disastrous  for  society as it can be used  as destructive weapons  that may harm the universe, he added. It can be used for propagating false agenda  on different media  platforms, said Harivansh. Mentioning the book as one of the great and historic  collections of memories, he said, journalists of  current days must take lessons from this book.  IIT -ISM director Prof Rajeev Shekher, deputy director Prof Dhiraj Kumar, Jharia MLA Poornima Neeraj Singh, Dr MM Pathak  and  editors of three vernacular  dailies  too were present during the book release  ceremony.. All hailed the book of the veteran journalist . People from walks of life were present during the function. 

