E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		 J’Quan is an active young child. J’Quan would describe himself as humorous, kind, and fun to be around. He is a very affectionate child and enjoys showing his love to those he cares about. J’Quan’s favorite activities are playing with his LEGOs, riding his bike, and playing outside.J’Quan would thrive in an attentive, supportive family with one or two parents. A family for J’Quan will need to support the relationship that J’Quan has with his sister. A family should also be able to maintain contact with members of J’Quan’s birth family.J’Quan would also benefit from a visiting resource.Can I Adopt?If you’re at least 18 years old, have a stable source of income, and room in your heart, you may be a perfect match to adopt a waiting child. Adoptive parents can be single, married, or partnered; experienced or not; renters or homeowners; LGBTQ+ singles and couples. As an adoptive parent, you won’t have to pay any fees, adoption from foster care is completely free in Massachusetts.To learn more about adoption from foster care visit www.mareinc.org . Massachusetts Adoption Resource Exchange (MARE) can give you guidance and information on the adoption process. Reach out today to find out all the ways you can help children and teens in foster care. J’Quan would thrive in an attentive, supportive family with one or two parents. A family for J’Quan will need to support the relationship that J’Quan has with his sister. A family should also be able to maintain contact with members of J’Quan’s birth family. J’Quan would also benefit from a visiting resource. Can I Adopt? If you’re at least 18 years old, have a stable source of income, and room in your heart, you may be a perfect match to adopt a waiting child. Adoptive parents can be single, married, or partnered; experienced or not; renters or homeowners; LGBTQ+ singles and couples. As an adoptive parent, you won’t have to pay any fees, adoption from foster care is completely free in Massachusetts. To learn more about adoption from foster care visit www.mareinc.org . Massachusetts Adoption Resource Exchange (MARE) can give you guidance and information on the adoption process. Reach out today to find out all the ways you can help children and teens in foster care. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group