Shocking cellphone video shows a Tesla driver apparently snoozing behind the wheel while traveling along a busy California freeway. The footage was recorded at around 4 p.m. Thursday on the 15 Freeway near Temecula in Southern California. The clip shows a woman in a pink top and sunglasses slumped behind the wheel of a white Tesla sedan. “Guys, you’re not gonna believe this,” eyewitness Kiki Dolas, who recorded the video, narrates in the background. “We’re on a freeway in California where it’s bumper-to-bumper (traffic).” As Dolas’ vehicle catches up to the Tesla, the female driver is seen seemingly dozing with her head nodding off to the right. “She is out, sleeping, completely knocked out,” Dolas says off camera, “and this car is driving her. Look at how dangerous that is, you guys. I’m sorry, that is too damn dangerous!” Dolas told the station KTLA that she and her partner were driving home from Las Vegas when they spotted the drowsy driver. “My partner was getting ready to change lanes and he was like, ‘I think she’s sleeping,’ and I said ‘Who?’ And I looked over immediately,” said Dolas. “As soon as I said that, the car actually sped off ahead of us. I just said, ‘Please hurry, please hurry.'” Dolas said she spent 15 minutes trying in vain to wake up the slumbering motorist by honking repeatedly before calling 911. “We started honking to try to get her attention because maybe she’s having a health emergency or something. I really wasn’t sure,” she recalled. “So we couldn’t get her attention, the traffic is getting thicker and thicker so I said, ‘You know what? Let me call 911.'” California Highway Patrol officials said they tracked down the Tesla two minutes after responding to the scene and found the driver awake. Tesla is already facing a slew of investigations by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration stemming from crashes related to its controversial “full self-driving” and autopilot capabilities. Tesla’s website warns that its electric cars can’t drive themselves.  “Autopilot, Enhanced Autopilot and Full Self-Driving Capability are intended for use with a fully attentive driver, who has their hands on the wheel and is prepared to take over at any moment,” the site declares. “While these features are designed to become more capable over time, the currently enabled features do not make the vehicle autonomous.” Last month, the Justice Department requested documents from Tesla related to its self-driving and autopilot features.  Tesla CEO Elon Musk acknowledged last October that the car company’s self-driving system is not “quite ready to have no one behind the wheel.” Advertisement