
                            By
                                Miko Pagaduan
 AXA XL, a subsidiary of AXA SA, has announced the promotion of Carlos Rodriguez Sanz to the role of regional product leader, cyber – APAC and Europe. In his new position, Rodriguez Sanz will take charge of AXA XL's cyber business in APAC and Europe and oversee the implementation of the company's cyber defense strategy. Ana Dores, chief underwriting officer, international financial lines – APAC and Europe at AXA XL, praised the appointment. "We are strengthening our cyber capabilities in Europe and APAC under Carlos’ leadership and are pleased to expand his responsibilities," Dores said. Dores also highlighted the growing demand for cyber insurance as companies seek reliable partners to navigate the increasingly complex landscape of technology risks. "It is no surprise that demand for cyber insurance is growing dramatically as companies look for trusted partners to help them manage increasingly complex technology risks," she said. Rodriguez Sanz has more than a decade of experience in the cyber insurance industry. He previously served as cyber product leader for Iberia at AIG before joining AXA XL as cyber product manager for APAC and Europe in 2021. Prior to working in the insurance industry, he held several positions in IT consulting and risk management, advising major corporates on their technological risks. In his new role as regional product leader, cyber – APAC and Europe, Rodriguez Sanz will work closely with local underwriting and distribution teams to drive the execution of AXA XL's cyber defense strategy. This includes bolstering the company's cyber capabilities and providing clients with innovative solutions to manage their technology risks. "I'm very happy to be promoted and glad to be part of this great team and company. Ready to provide top service to more clients and I look forward to working on talent development, promoting and leveraging the breadth of knowledge from our teams in Europe, Asia, and Australia," Rodriguez Sanz said in a LinkedIn post. 

