
Geo Focus: Asia
                                                    ,
                                                            Geo-Specific
                                                    ,
                                                            Governance & Risk Management
 Asia-Pacific healthcare sector organizations struggle with many of the same cybersecurity challenges as clinics in other parts of the world, including ransomware threats and denial-of-service attacks, says Errol Weiss, chief security officer of the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center. See Also: Hacking Security Awareness Training: How to Easily Improve Your Security Culture "There are certainly a lot of similarities with what we're seeing here in the U.S. and in many of the other countries that we deal with," says Weiss. "We're still seeing the lack of proper investments in cybersecurity, much like what we still see in the United States, and that's impacting the fallout we're seeing from many of these attacks globally as well," he says. Many of the top cyber issues facing healthcare entities in Asia-Pacific - including incident response, compliance, staff shortages, remote work, medical device security, and threat intelligence sharing - are on the agenda for discussion among security leaders at Health-ISAC's inaugural summit for the region, which is taking place March 21-23 in Singapore. "We are doing everything we can to sort of stimulate and help those organizations share [cybersecurity information] regionally and internationally as well," he says. In the video interview, Weiss also discusses: Weiss has over 25 years of experience in information security. He began his career with the National Security Agency, conducting penetration tests of classified networks. He created and ran Citigroup's Cyber Intelligence Center and was a senior vice president executive with Bank of America's Global Information Security team. Executive Editor, HealthcareInfoSecurity, ISMG McGee is executive editor of Information Security Media Group's HealthcareInfoSecurity.com media site. She has about 30 years of IT journalism experience, with a focus on healthcare information technology issues for more than 15 years. Before joining ISMG in 2012, she was a reporter at InformationWeek magazine and news site and played a lead role in the launch of InformationWeek's healthcare IT media site. 
   Covering topics in risk management, compliance, fraud, and information security. By submitting this form you agree to our Privacy & GDPR Statement whitepaper whitepaper whitepaper Cyberwarfare / Nation-State Attacks Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Cloud Security Healthcare Cybercrime Continue » 
 90 minutes · Premium OnDemand 
                         Overview From heightened risks to increased regulations, senior leaders at all levels are pressured to
                                    improve their organizations' risk management capabilities. But no one is showing them how -
                                    until now. Learn the fundamentals of developing a risk management program from the man who wrote the book
                                    on the topic: Ron Ross, computer scientist for the National Institute of Standards and
                                    Technology. In an exclusive presentation, Ross, lead author of NIST Special Publication 800-37
                                    - the bible of risk assessment and management - will share his unique insights on how to: Sr. Computer Scientist & Information Security Researcher,
                                            National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Was added to your briefcase Tackling Top Cyber Challenges in APAC's Healthcare Sector Tackling Top Cyber Challenges in APAC's Healthcare Sector 
                                        Just to prove you are a human, please solve the equation:

 Sign in now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Complete your profile and stay up to date Contact Support  Create an ISMG account now  Create an ISMG account now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Sign in now  Need help registering?
Contact support 
 Sign in now  Our website uses cookies. Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing databreachtoday.com, you agree to our use of cookies.