In this article With a 0% balance transfer credit card you can shift debt from expensive credit and store cards and freeze the interest for a set period - with some deals lasting up to 29 months.  This gives you the chance to pay the debt down faster and save money, as all your repayments will go towards the debt rather than the debt and interest. For example, a £2,000 debt on a card charging an 21.9% APR that you pay £60 a month towards will take over four years to clear and cost you £2,941. In contrast, a £2,000 debt moved onto a 0% balance transfer card, with the same repayments of £60 a month, will take around 33 months to clear and cost £2,000 - saving you £941. Here, we reveal the longest-lasting balance transfer cards on the market and the Which? Best Buys plus advice on how to use a balance transfer deal to tackle credit card debt. free newsletter Get a firmer grip on your finances with the expert tips in our Money newsletter – it's free weekly. This newsletter delivers free money-related content, along with other information about Which? Group products and services. Unsubscribe whenever you want. Your data will be processed in accordance with our Privacy policy When looking for a 0% balance transfer credit card you should consider the length of the 0% period and the size of the balance transfer fee. Some cards don't charge a balance transfer fee, but others charge up to 4% for each balance transfer you do, so if you've got multiple cards you want to clear, the costs can add up. In general, the longer the deal lasts, the higher the fee will be. This means it can be worth avoiding the longest deals if you feel confident that you'll be able to repay the balance within a shorter time frame. Here are our picks of the best balance transfer deals available if you're simply after the longest-lasting one. We've also awarded Best Buys to the 0% balance transfer credit cards that have no transfer fee and come with a decent 0% period for clearing debt. Please note that the information in this article is for information purposes only and does not constitute advice. Please refer to the particular terms & conditions of a credit card provider before committing to any financial products. Tables notes: table correct as of 1 August 2024. Cards are ordered by interest-free period, balance transfer fee and then APR. The average provider customer score is 69%. For more information on our research and the terms we use in the table skip to how we analyse credit card providers and deals. We've analysed hundreds of balance transfer credit cards to find the best deals. We looked at credit cards that had no balance transfer fee with 0% periods over 12 months, and checked how customers rated the provider. These cards stood out. Tables notes: table correct as of 1 August 2024. The average provider customer score is 69%. For more information on our research and the terms we use in the table skip to how we analyse credit card providers and deals. A simple way to find the best deal for you is to take the total amount you have on your credit cards and store cards and divide this by what you can afford to repay each month. The answer will give you your ideal 0% period, which you can use to help you shop for a card.  So if you had £4,000 worth of debts and could afford to repay £150 a month, you would need a card with a 0% period lasting at least 27 months. Use the calculator below to quickly find the best 0% balance transfer term for you. As well as the length of a 0% balance transfer deal and the fee, you should also look into whether the provider offers good customer service. Which? has rated 31 of the biggest credit card providers to help you understand what they're like for service, mobile banking and more before you apply. You can see how the big names in the 0% balance transfer market like NatWest ,  Barclaycard and Tesco Bank stack up in our guide to the best credit card providers. The companies that combine great deals with top-notch customer satisfaction are awarded our coveted Which? Recommended Provider status.  When you apply for a 0% balance transfer card you will be asked if you want to move a balance. At this stage, you can enter the card number of where your existing debt lives and the balance you want to move. Even if you don't do it then you will be able to do it at a later date. But it's a good idea to shift your balance as soon as possible to ensure you benefit from the full 0% period. Just watch out for any small print that stipulates you have between 60 and 90 days to complete a transfer after you receive the card to benefit from perks like a reduced balance transfer fee. Once you have a 0% balance transfer credit card there are a few things to bear in mind to stay on the right track. We've set out the golden rules for you to follow below. It's important to pay at least the minimum repayment on your balance transfer credit card but you should aim to pay back more than this to help clear what you owe. Most credit card companies reserve the right to withdraw a deal at any time if you miss a payment, meaning you'll be charged interest at their standard rate. To make sure you stay on target and never miss a payment set up a direct debit to repay the minimum amount or more. Beware of spending on a balance transfer card, as this can be costly. Some balance transfer cards offer 0% interest on purchases for a limited time, but the deal periods on these cards tend to be shorter than standalone deals. Just remember your main aim when taking out a balance transfer is to clear your debt, rather than get into any more. To avoid reverting to the standard interest rate, it's important to repay your balance in full before the 0% introductory balance transfer offer comes to an end. So, it's worth setting up a direct debit based on the monthly amount needed to repay the debt within the 0% and set a reminder of when the deal ends to give yourself enough time to make other arrangements if you don't manage it. If you do still have outstanding debt at the end of the 0% period, you should consider switching the remainder to a new 0% balance transfer card. Failing that, you should transfer the debt to a card with a lower APR. Got a burning balance transfer question? Check out if we've covered it in the Q&A below. A 0% balance transfer credit card may be suitable for those with existing credit or store card debt, who want to cut the cost of the interest and pay off what they owe quicker. Shifting a balance from one card to another can impact your credit score in both positive and negative ways depending on a range of factors. Your credit score can take a temporary hit when you apply for a new credit card as part of your rating is linked to the age of your accounts and typically the older the better. Over the long-term opening a new account can improve your credit history, especially when your credit utilisation - how much of your available credit you are using each month - is low. So, if you moved a £1,000 balance from a card with a £2,000 limit to one with a £4,000 limit your utilisation would move from 50% to 25%, which makes you look like a better borrower. It's also important to remember that every time you apply for credit there is a hard search recorded on your report and multiple applications can hit your credit rating. Doing your research and finding the best deal for you is the key to limiting the impact of this factor on your score. Once you've transferred your balance to a new card your old card will be cleared giving you the chance to close the account. Part of your credit score relates to the length of time you leave credit accounts open, and typically the longer you have accounts the better the score, so it can be worth keeping your old account open. Bear in mind, if you keep the card and don't use it, it will pose a fraud risk and the credit you have on the card may impact affordability calculations for other types of borrowing like for a mortgage. Ultimately, whether you close the account depends on your goals and ability to avoid temptation. Credit cards issued by American Express normally have a 15-digit card number rather than a 16-digit card number. This can cause trouble when shifting debt from an American Express card as online systems struggle to recognise the shorter set of numbers. In some cases, you just need to phone up your new card company and complete the transfer, but in others, you may not be able to make the transfer, so check the provider is equipped to deal with this issue before applying. You can transfer part or all of a debt balance from one credit card to a balance transfer credit card. You won't be able to use a balance transfer deal to shift debt between the same companies. Luckily there are many providers to choose from so you should be able to find a different firm with a card that can help you.  If the credit limit you get approved for doesn't cover the balance you want to shift you have two choices. You could move what you can onto the new card and make do or apply for another card in the hope that the provider offers you a larger limit. Just bear in mind that multiple credit checks could raise alarm bells and could mean you don't get accepted for the deal or get a worse offer. You should pay off at least the minimum repayment on your 0% balance transfer deal but ideally, you should aim to repay enough each month to clear the debt within the 0% period. Most cards charge a one-off transfer fee of up to 3.5% which applies on the debt you are trying to shift. This doesn't have to be paid upfront, but is added to your overall debt balance and will remain interest-free for as long as your deal lasts. You can transfer a balance that was previously a balance transfer so long as you have an available credit limit or a new card that can absorb it. You can use your balance transfer credit card to make new purchases as long as you have an available credit limit on your card. However, bear in mind that new purchases aren't likely to be interest-free and will attract interest at the standard rate, which defeats the purpose of a 0% balance transfer deal. The length of the promotional offers made available to you will usually be based on your personal circumstances. Those with a lower credit rating may be offered a shorter amount of time to pay off their debt interest-free. Some providers offer a 'soft search' which means you can check if you will be eligible for a deal without going through the process of applying and leaving a mark on your credit history. Some people go from one 0% card to another when the interest-free period expires to avoid paying any interest. However, being able to do this will depend on your credit history. It's also worth remembering that making multiple credit applications within a short space of time can have an impact on your credit rating. You can put your question to our experts. Email us using money-letters@which.co.uk.  Sam Wilson, credit card market analyst, says: 'At Which? we put credit card products and providers under the microscope to help you save time when shopping around for a new deal. 'We run a survey each year to gather the experiences of customers to help us find the best providers and we keep a close eye on the credit card market to determine which deals are the best in their category.' Here's some more information about our research and the terms we use in this guide. Our provider customer scores are based on an online survey of 3,775 members of the public, conducted in October 2023.  Provider customer scores are worked out using a combination of overall satisfaction and the likelihood of recommending the provider to a friend. We award Which? Recommended Providers to the lenders that meet our benchmarks on customer service and product offering. To become a Which? Recommended Providers a lender must have: A credit card product must have been one of the top five cards in its category and must also satisfy specific criteria for the type of card such as the size of the balance transfer fee or length of 0% period to become a Best Buy. A provider must have also achieved a provider customer score of over 65% in our latest credit card satisfaction survey.   We also update our analysis regularly, which means we will withdraw Best Buys if providers make adverse changes to APRs, 0% periods or fees. Back to table key information We’re not influenced by third parties. We work entirely on behalf of you, the consumer – nobody else. See our statement of editorial independence for more. Latest News In 16 Aug 2024 09 Aug 2024 02 Aug 2024 29 Jul 2024 19 Jul 2024 28 Jun 2024 21 Jun 2024 14 Jun 2024 07 Jun 2024 05 Jun 2024 31 May 2024 24 May 2024 17 May 2024 15 May 2024 10 May 2024 03 May 2024 19 Apr 2024 05 Apr 2024 29 Mar 2024 22 Mar 2024 About Us Which? Limited is registered in England and Wales to 2 Marylebone Road, London NW1 4DF, company number 00677665  and is an Introducer Appointed Representative (FRN 610689) of the following:  1. Inspop.com Ltd for the introduction of non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635). Inspop.com Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice and arrange non-investment motor, home, travel and pet insurance products (FRN310635) and is registered in England and Wales to Greyfriars House, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, South Wales, CF10 3AL, company number 03857130. Confused.com is a trading name of Inspop.com Ltd.   2. LifeSearch Partners Limited (FRN656479), for the introduction of Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance, who are authorised and regulated by the FCA to provide advice and arrange Pure Protection Contracts and Private Health Insurance Contracts.  LifeSearch Partners Ltd is registered in England and Wales to 3000a Parkway, Whiteley, Hampshire, PO15 7FX, company number 03412386.  3. HUB Financial Solutions, for the introduction of equity release advice and an annuity comparison service, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) to provide advice and guidance on financial products for those who have retired or are approaching retirement (FCA Firm Reference Number: 455713). HUB Financial Solutions is registered in England and Wales to Enterprise House, Bancroft Road, Reigate, Surrey RH12 7RP, company number 05125701.  4. Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Ltd (FRN 301), for the introduction of non-investment landlord insurances, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide advice and arrange insurance contracts. Alan Boswell insurance brokers Ltd is registered in England at Prospect House, Rouen Rd, Norwich NR1 1RE, company number 02591252.  Other financial services: Mortgage service provided by London & Country Mortgages (L&C), Unit 26 (2.06), Newark Works, 2 Foundry Lane, Bath BA2 3GZ. London & Country are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (registered number: 143002). The FCA does not regulate most Buy to Let mortgages. Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.  We do not make, nor do we seek to make, any recommendations or personalised advice on financial products or services that are regulated by the FCA, as we’re not regulated or authorised by the FCA to advise you in this way. In some cases, however, we have included links to regulated brands or providers with whom we have a commercial relationship and, if you choose to, you can buy a product from our commercial partners.   If you go ahead and buy a product using our link, we will receive a commission to help fund our not-for-profit mission and our campaigns work as a champion for the UK consumer. Please note that a link alone does not constitute an endorsement by Which?. Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024