Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more. Picking the best rewards credit card may feel overwhelming. That's because there are so many options that it's hard to know which is best for you. You don't have to be an aggressive points optimizer to enjoy the perks of a good rewards credit card. With the right card and good financial habits (paying your balance off on time and in full each month), you can earn hundreds of dollars in rewards each year. To relieve some of the stress, CNBC Select looked into each card's rewards structure and additional benefits, such as discounts at select retailers, travel insurance, annual statement credits and more that make using a rewards card worthwhile. (See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best rewards cards.) 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, 2X miles per dollar on every other purchase Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that's equal to $1,000 in travel $95 N/A for purchases and balance transfers 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) $0 at the Transfer APR, 4% of the amount of each transferred balance that posts to your account at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer to you None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Who's this for? The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is ideal if you're seeing an excellent intro bonus offer with a manageable spending requirement and a reasonable annual fee. Standout rewards: This card earns bonus miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, as well as an above-average return on all other purchases. Rewards can be redeemed at a fixed value or transferred to various airline and hotel partners. [ Jump to more details ] Earn 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on purchases at restaurants worldwide, on up to $50,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year. 4X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent at US supermarkets, on up to $25,000 in purchases per calendar year, then 1X points for the rest of the year, 3X Membership Rewards® points on per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or on amextravel.com,  2X Membership Rewards® points per dollar spent on prepaid hotels and other eligible purchases booked on AmexTravel.com. 1X Membership Rewards® point per dollar spent on all other eligible purchases. Earn 60,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $6,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Plus, receive 20% back in statement credits on eligible purchases made at restaurants worldwide within the first 6 months of Card Membership, up to $100 back. Limited time offer. Offer ends 11/6/24. $325 Not applicable See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our American Express® Gold Card review. Who's this for? The American Express® Gold Card is ideal for earning travel rewards on common everyday spending categories like dining and groceries. Standout rewards: Whether you like to dine out or cook at home, you'll earn bonus points on restaurant and U.S. supermarket spending. Travelers also benefit from earning bonus points on flights booked directly with airlines or on Amextravel.com. [ Jump to more details ] An American Express® Rewards Checking account comes with a 1.00% APY and no monthly maintenance fees. Plus, you'll earn Membership Rewards points on eligible debit card purchases (one point for every $2 in eligible spending). $0 $0 $0 1.00% as of 06/24/2024 37,000+ MoneyPass® ATMs None N/A Yes Terms apply. Click here to view terms and conditions. Earn 2% on every purchase with unlimited 1% cash back when you buy, plus an additional 1% as you pay for those purchases. To earn cash back, pay at least the minimum due on time. Plus, for a limited time, earn 5% total cash back on hotel, car rentals and attractions booked on the Citi Travel℠ portal through 12/31/24 Earn $200 cash back after you spend $1,500 on purchases in the first 6 months of account opening. This bonus offer will be fulfilled as 20,000 ThankYou® Points, which can be redeemed for $200 cash back. $0 0% for the first 18 months on balance transfers; N/A for purchases 19.24% - 29.24% variable For balance transfers completed within 4 months of account opening, an intro balance transfer fee of 3% of each transfer ($5 minimum) applies; after that, a balance transfer fee of 5% of each transfer ($5 minimum) applies 3% Fair/Good/Excellent See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our Citi Double Cash® Card review. Who's this for? The Citi Double Cash® Card is a solid choice if you're looking to maximize your money without worrying about rotating rewards categories or joining a credit union. Standout rewards: The Citi Double Cash earns at least 2% cash back on every purchase with 1% back when you buy, plus an additional 1% back when you pay for those purchases. This straightforward rewards structure allows you to earn double what most cards offer on everyday purchases. [ Jump to more details ] Enjoy 4.5% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery services, 6.5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, our premier rewards program that lets you redeem rewards for cash back, travel, gift cards and more; and 3% cash back on all other purchases (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year). After your first year or $20,000 spent, enjoy 5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service, and unlimited 1.5% cash back on all other purchases. INTRO OFFER: Earn an additional 1.5% cash back on everything you buy (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year) - worth up to $300 cash back! $0 0% for the first 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers 20.49% - 29.24% variable Intro fee of either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater, on transfers made within 60 days of account opening. After that, either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. 3% of each transaction in U.S. dollars Excellent/Good Member FDIC. Terms apply. Read our Chase Freedom Unlimited® review. Who's this for? The Chase Freedom Unlimited®, our top cash-back card, is ideal for anyone looking for a simple way to maximize cash back on everyday spending. Standout rewards: Cardholders earn bonus cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel, as well as on drugstores and dining at restaurants (including takeout), plus an above-average return on all other purchases. [ Jump to more details ] When you open a Chase Total Checking® account, you can earn a $300 bonus after you make at least $500 in direct deposits within 90 days of opening the account. You can also waive the monthly maintenance fee with qualifying activities. N/A $0 $12 or $0 with one of the following, each monthly statement period: Electronic deposits made into this account totaling $500 or more, such as payments from payroll providers or government benefit providers, by using (i) the ACH network, (ii) the Real Time Payment or FedNowSM network, (iii) third party services that facilitate payments to your debit card using the Visa® or Mastercard® network, OR a balance at the beginning of each day of $1,500 or more in this account, OR an average beginning day balance of $5,000 or more in any combination of this account and linked qualifying Chase checking, savings, and other balances. With over 4,700 branches, Chase has the largest branch network in the U.S. plus access to more than 15,000 ATMs. None $34 Yes Terms apply. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Member FDIC Use the card 5 times each statement period to earn points - Earn 1x points on rent payments without the transaction fee, up to 100,000 points each calendar year, 3x points on dining, 2x points on travel, and 1x points on other purchases None None N/A See Terms Up to 5% for each balance transfer, with a minimum of $5. None Excellent/Good See rates/fees and rewards/benefits; terms apply. Who's this for? The Bilt Mastercard® is ideal if you rent your home or apartment. It allows you to pay rent and earn versatile transferable points without extra fees. Standout rewards: You can use Bilt points to book travel, pay for dining, shopping and fitness classes or redeem them toward rent or a down payment on a home. On top of all that, you can also transfer Bilt points to many valuable airline and hotel loyalty programs. [ Jump to more details ] Enjoy beneﬁts such as 5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases, and $50 annual Chase Travel Hotel Credit, plus more. Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. $95 None 21.49% - 28.49% variable on purchases and balance transfers Either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Read our Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card review. Who's this for? The Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card is a versatile card with a strong suite of benefits and a generous rewards program. Standout rewards: Chase Sapphire Preferred Card members earn bonus points on travel, streaming services, online grocery purchases and dining. When you factor in how valuable Chase Ultimate Rewards® points can be when you redeem them for travel, it places this card firmly in the conversation for the best travel credit card. [ Jump to more details ] Earn 2% cash back at Gas Stations and Restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, automatically. Plus earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases. Discover will match all the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year $0 N/A on purchases 28.24% Variable 3% intro balance transfer fee, up to 5% fee on future balance transfers (see terms)* None New / Rebuilding *See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our Discover it® Secured Credit Card review. Who's this for? Secured credit cards provide an opportunity to grow or repair your credit score, so they typically don't offer rewards or other benefits. However, Discover it® Secured Credit Card is an exception. Standout rewards: Discover it Secured Credit Card cardholders earn 2% back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases every quarter. All other spending earns a standard 1% back. That's a nice return, but it's even better for the first year because Discover will match all of the cash back you earn for the first year. [ Jump to more details ] If you want to do all your banking in one place, the Discover® Cashback Debit Checking account offers a debit card that earns 1.00% cash back on up to $3,000 in debit card purchases each month. You can also earn a generous return on your cash with a Discover® Online Savings Account. $0 $0 None 1% cash back on up to $3,000 in debit card purchases each month. See website for details by clicking "Learn More". 60,000+ Allpoint® and MoneyPass® ATMs None $0 Yes Terms apply. 4.25% APY None None Up to 6 free withdrawals or transfers per statement cycle None None Yes Yes, if have a Discover® checking account Terms apply. Read our Discover® Online Savings Account review. Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations, and more, up to the quarterly maximum when you activate. Plus, earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases-automatically. Discover will match all the cash back earned for all new cardmembers at the end of your first year $0 0% for 6 months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable 3% intro balance transfer fee, up to 5% fee on future balance transfers (see terms)* None Fair / New to Credit *See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our Discover it® Student Cash Back review. Who's this for? Unlike many student credit cards, the Discover it® Student Cash Back provides an opportunity to earn cash-back rewards while you're in college and building your credit history. Standout rewards: The Discover it Student Cash Back offers rotating quarterly categories where you'll earn 5% back on up to $1,500 in combined purchases (then 1%) and 1% back on all other purchases. To qualify for the bonus cash back, you'll need to activate the new categories each quarter. [ Jump to more details ] Earn 5X Membership Rewards® Points for flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, 5X Membership Rewards® Points on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel, 1X points on all other eligible purchases Earn 80,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $8,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Apply and select your preferred metal Card design: classic Platinum, Platinum x Kehinde Wiley, or Platinum x Julie Mehretu. $695* None See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our The Platinum Card® from American Express review. Who's this for? The Platinum Card® from American Express is a top-tier premium credit card, that's loaded with all sorts of perks. Standout rewards: If you want access to airport lounges, the Amex Platinum card is hard to beat. Cardholders get access to Priority Pass lounges (enrollment required), American Express Centurion Lounges, Plaza Premium lounges, Lufthansa lounges, Escape Lounges and Delta Sky Clubs. [ Jump to more details ] None None $0 0% Intro APR for 21 months on balance transfers from date of first transfer and 0% Intro APR for 12 months on purchases from date of account opening. 19.24% - 29.99% variable There is an intro balance transfer fee of 3% of each transfer (minimum $5) completed within the first 4 months of account opening. After that, your fee will be 5% of each transfer (minimum $5). 3% Excellent/Good See rates and fees. Terms apply. Read our Citi Simplicity® Card review. Who's this for? If you have credit card debt and are looking to save on interest, the Citi Simplicity® Card is one of the best options for 0% intro APR balance transfer offers. Standout rewards: The Citi Simplicity Card doesn't provide any rewards, but its intro-APR period for balance transfers is exceptionally generous. You'll get a 0% intro APR for 21 months on balance transfers, then a variable 19.24%-29.99% applies. There is an intro balance transfer fee of 3% ($5 minimum for balances transfer you complete within four months of account opening. After that, the balance transfer fee increases to 5% ($5 minimum). [ Jump to more details ] 6% cash back at U.S. supermarkets on up to $6,000 per year in purchases (then 1%), 6% cash back on select U.S. streaming subscriptions, 3% cash back at U.S. gas stations, 3% cash back on transit (including taxis/rideshare, parking, tolls, trains, buses and more) and 1% cash back on other purchases. Cash Back is received in the form of Reward Dollars that can be redeemed as a statement credit or at Amazon.com checkout. Earn a $250 statement credit after you spend $3,000 in eligible purchases on your new Card within the first 6 months.  $0 intro annual fee for the first year, then $95. 0% for 12 months on purchases from the date of account opening 19.24% - 29.99% variable Either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. 2.7% Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Rewards totals incorporate the cash back earned from the welcome bonus Who's this for? The Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express is a great choice for anyone who regularly spends big at grocery stores and gas stations. Standout rewards: Cardholders who have cut the cord can take advantage of 6% cash back on select U.S. streaming subscriptions and 6% back on the first $6,000 in purchases at U.S. supermarkets per year, (then 1%). Cardholders also earn bonus cash back on transit and at U.S. gas stations. [ Jump to more details ] Earn 5X total points on flights and 10X total points on hotels and car rentals when you purchase travel through Chase Travel℠ immediately after the first $300 is spent on travel purchases annually. Earn 3X points on other travel and dining & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases plus, 10X points on Lyft rides through March 2025 Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $900 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. $550 None 22.49% - 29.49% variable 5%, minimum $5 None Excellent Terms apply. Read our Chase Sapphire Reserve® review. Rewards totals incorporate the points earned from the welcome bonus Who's this for? If you're a frequent traveler looking to make your flights and hotel stays more luxurious, the Chase Sapphire Reserve® should be on your radar. Standout rewards: This card is geared toward frequent travelers, offering bonus points on dining and travel, plus benefits like a $300 annual travel credit, airport lounge access and no foreign transaction fees. The points you earn with this card are worth 1.5 cents apiece when redeemed through Chase Travel℠, or potentially more when taking advantage of Chase's hotel and airline partners.  [ Jump to more details ] Earn unlimited 5% back at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market and on Chase Travel purchases with an eligible Prime membership, unlimited 2% back at gas stations, restaurants, and on local transit and commuting (including rideshare), 10% back or more on a rotating selection of items and categories on Amazon.com with an eligible Prime membership, unlimited 1% back on all other purchases Get a $100 Amazon Gift Card instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members $0 (but Prime membership is required) None 20.49% - 29.24% variable Either $5 or 4% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Rewards totals incorporate the points earned from the welcome bonus Who's this for? Frequent shoppers of Amazon and Whole Foods will want to look into the Prime Visa. The card also offers a $100 Amazon Gift Card instantly upon approval exclusively for Prime members. Standout rewards: All Prime Visa purchases at Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, and Whole Foods earn a generous 5% cash back. Cardholders also get bonus cash back at gas stations, restaurants, on local transit and commuting (including rideshare) and Chase Travel purchases. [ Jump to more details ] Earn 10% cash back on purchases made through Uber & Uber Eats, plus complimentary Uber One membership statement credits through 11/14/2024, 8% cash back on Capital One Entertainment purchases, earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel; Terms apply, 3% cash back on dining and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®), 3% cash back on popular streaming services and entertainment, and 1% cash back on all other purchases Earn a one-time $200 cash bonus after you spend $500 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening $0 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months 19.99% - 29.99% variable  3% for the first 15 months; 4% at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer you at any other time None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Read our Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card review. Who's this for? If you need to relax, Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card earns cash back where it matters most. Standout rewards: Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Card members earn bonus cash back on dining, entertainment, streaming services and at grocery stores. No matter how you like to unwind, this card can make it more affordable. [ Jump to more details ] 5% cash back on up to $1,500 in combined purchases in bonus categories each quarter you activate (then 1%), 5% cash back on travel booked through Chase Travel℠, 3% on drugstore purchases and on dining (including takeout and eligible delivery services), 1% cash back on all other purchases Earn a $200 Bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in your first 3 months from account opening $0 0% for the first 15 months from account opening on purchases and balance transfers 20.49% - 29.24% variable Intro fee of either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater, on transfers made within 60 days of account opening. After that, either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. 3% Excellent/Good Member FDIC. Terms apply. Information about the Chase Freedom Flex® has been collected independently by Select and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of the card prior to publication. Read our Chase Freedom Flex® review. Who’s this for? If you’re looking to maximize cash-back rewards, consider a rotating bonus category card like the Chase Freedom Flex®. Standout rewards: Chase Freedom Flex cardholders earn 5% on the first $1,500 in combined purchases in different categories each quarter. You'll need to activate the categories to earn the bonus cash back. In addition to rotating rewards, you can earn bonus cash back on travel booked through the Chase Ultimate Rewards® portal, dining and drug stores purchases. [ Jump to more details ] The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a versatile and rewarding travel card with a welcome bonus that's worth taking a closer look at. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that's equal to $1,000 in travel. Annual fee $95 Notable perks Every four years, cardholders receive a credit of up to $100 to cover Global Entry or TSA PreCheck® membership. This card has no foreign transaction fees and comes with a bunch of additional travel perks, such as access to extended warranty protection*, Travel Assistance Services*, Purchase Assurance*, MasterRental Insurance*, Master RoadAssist®*, and Trip Cancellation/Interruption Coverage*. Capital One miles can be used to book flights, hotels, rental cars and more directly through Capital One Travel, or to offset recent travel purchases at a fixed value of one cent per point. Alternatively, they can be transferred to various hotel and airline partners including Accor Live Limitless, Air Canada Aeroplan, Etihad Guest and others to get even more value from your miles. *Benefit available to accounts approved for the World Elite Mastercard product, subject to terms, conditions, and exclusions in the World Elite Mastercard Guide to Benefits. See Account Terms or Application Terms for more details. Terms, conditions and exclusions apply. [ Return to card summary ] The American Express® Gold Card offers a stellar return for dining, grocery and travel purchases, as well as statement credits that can almost entirely offset its annual fee (see rates and fees). You'll get the most value from your Membership Rewards points when redeeming for travel through transfer partners. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn 60,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $6,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Plus, receive 20% back in statement credits on eligible purchases made at restaurants worldwide within the first 6 months of Card Membership, up to $100 back. Offer ends 11/6/24. Annual fee $325 (see rates and fees) Notable perks Cardholders can receive an annual dining statement credit of up to $120 (up to $10 a monthin statement credits) at Grubhub, The Cheesecake Factory, Goldbelly, Wine.com, and Five Guys (enrollment required). Cardholders also receive up to $120 in Uber Cash per year ($10 a month) after adding the card to their Uber account (you must have downloaded the latest version of the Uber App and your eligible American Express Gold Card must be a method of payment in your Uber account. The Amex Benefit may only be used in the United States.). Terms apply. Gold Card members can also participate in Amex Offers, which allow targeted cardholders to earn statement credits or bonus Membership Rewards® points at select retailers. These limited-time offers are location-based and additional terms apply. The best way to use Amex points is to transfer them to an airline or hotel partner to book travel, but they can also be redeemed for statement credits, gift cards, and when checking out at retailers like Amazon. [ Return to card summary ] The Citi Double Cash® Card is a straightforward no-annual-fee cash-back card. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn $200 cash back after spending $1,500 on purchases within the first six months of account opening. Annual fee $0 Notable perks The Citi Double Cash Card offers cardholders a 0% APR for the first 18 months on balance transfers initiated within four months of opening an account. After the intro period ends, there's a 19.24% - 29.24% variable APR. There is an intro balance transfer fee of 3% of the amount you transfer with a $5 minimum for transfers completed in the first four months. After that, the balance transfer fee is 5% of the amount you transfer ($5 minimum). [ Return to card summary ] The Chase Freedom Unlimited® earns a minimum of 1.5% back on every purchase, which ensures you're earning a healthy return regardless of where you're shopping. Rewards On up to $20,000 spent in the first year: After your first year or $20,000 spent: Welcome bonus Earn an additional 1.5% cash back on everything you buy (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year) - worth up to $300 cash back! Annual fee $0 Notable perks Cardholders can benefit from a 0% intro APR for the first 15 months from account opening on new purchases and balance transfers (after, 20.49% - 29.24% variable APR). There's an intro balance transfer fee of either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater, on transfers made within 60 days of account opening. After that, it's either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. Freedom Unlimited cardholders receive three free months of DoorDash DashPass, which comes with reduced fees (activate by Dec. 31, 2024). [ Return to card summary ] The Bilt Mastercard provides a path to paying rent with a credit card without extra fees. But it's also much more than just a good credit card for renters. Rewards To earn points with the Bilt card, you need to make at least five transactions per billing cycle. Welcome bonus None Annual fee $0 Notable perks When you consider that the Bilt Mastercard has no annual fee, you'll be pleasantly surprised by the insurance benefits it has. You're covered by trip delay reimbursement, trip interruption/cancellation protection, rental car collision insurance (primary), cell phone protection and purchase protection. You can also earn a $5 Lyft credit when you take three Lyft rides in a month (through Sept. 30, 2025) and take advantage of a range of Mastercard perks. You have access to Mastercard ID Theft Protection, Mastercard Airport Concierge, Mastercard Travel and Lifestyle Services and more. The value of a Bilt Rewards point depends on how you use it. The best options for redeeming points include booking travel through the Bilt Travel Portal for 1.25 cents per point or receiving 1.5 cents per point toward a down payment on a home. To get even more value, consider taking advantage of Bilt's transfer partners which include World of Hyatt, United MileagePlus, Emirates Skywards and many more. [ Return to card summary ] The Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card is an incredibly flexible travel rewards credit card that comes with useful travel and shopping protections, plus a modest annual fee. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. Annual fee $95 Notable perks On every account anniversary, card members receive a 10% bonus based on the total purchases from the previous year. If you spent $50,000 on the card, at the end of that year you'd receive a 5,000-point bonus. You can also earn up to a $50 Annual Chase Hotel Credit each year for hotel stays you purchase through the Chase travel site. This card has no foreign transaction fees and offers insurance such as trip delay reimbursement, trip cancellation/interruption coverage and primary rental car insurance. Cardholders can also enroll to receive one year of free DashPass membership (activate by Dec. 31, 2027). [ Return to card summary ] The Discover it® Secured Credit Card requires an upfront deposit. Plus, it has a generous rewards structure for a secured credit card. Rewards Welcome bonus Discover will match the cash back you earn in the first year of card membership. Annual fee $0 Notable perks You'll need to make a minimum deposit of $200 to qualify for this card. However, after seven months, Discover will automatically review your account to see if you qualify for an upgrade to an unsecured credit card. This card has no foreign transaction fees. [ Return to card summary ] The Discover it® Student Cash Back card is an unusually rewarding credit card for students. Rewards Welcome bonus Discover will match the cash back you earn in the first year of card membership. Annual fee $0 Notable perks You'll need to be an eligible student to qualify for this card, but it is available even if you have poor credit or a limited credit history. Students traveling overseas can take advantage of no foreign transaction fees. [ Return to card summary ] The Platinum Card® from American Express is a premium credit card loaded with annual statement credits, entertainment benefits, extensive airport lounge access, elite status perks and more. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn 80,000 points after spending $8,000 on eligible purchases within the first six months of card membership. Annual fee $695 (see rates and fees) Notable perks The American Express Platinum card has an incredible list of statement credit offers that can be worth over $1,500 when maximized, including: On top of excellent airport lounge access, cardholders can enroll for Marriott Bonvoy Gold status (enrollment required), Hilton Honors Gold status (enrollment required) and rental car perks with National, Avis and Hertz. It also has all of the built-in protections you'd want from a premium travel card, including trip delay reimbursement*, trip cancellation/interruption coverage*, return protection, purchase protection** and extended warranty coverage**. Eligibility and Benefit level varies by Card. Terms, Conditions and Limitations Apply. Please visit americanexpress.com/benefitsguide for more details. *Underwritten by New Hampshire Insurance Company, an AIG Company. **Underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company. [ Return to card summary ] The Citi Simplicity® Card doesn't offer any rewards but can help you pass less credit card interest. Rewards None Welcome bonus None Annual fee $0 Notable perks In addition to this card's balance transfer intro APR, it also offers a 0% intro APR for 12 months on purchases, after that a 19.24%-29.99% variable APR applies. [ Return to card summary ] Anyone who prefers to earn cash-back rewards will want to consider the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn $250 statement credit after you spend $3,000 on eligible purchases within the first six months of account opening. Annual fee $0 intro annual fee for the first year, then $95 (see rates and fees) Notable perks Statement credit offers that cardholders can take advantage of: Cardholders can also potentially save money on their purchases by taking advantage of Amex Offers. [ Return to card summary ] The Chase Sapphire Reserve® is loaded with luxury perks and valuable ongoing benefits that can easily make the annual fee worth it. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn 60,000 points after spending $4,000 on purchases in the first three months of account opening. Annual fee $550 Notable perks Every card anniversary year, cardholders get a $300 travel credit, which automatically applies to eligible purchases. Plus, cardholders can get a TSA PreCheck or Global Entry application fee credit worth up to $100 every four years. Both of those credits are on top of the complimentary Priority Pass Select membership (valued at roughly $469 a year), which grants you unlimited visits to over 1,500 airport lounges worldwide. This card also comes with a host of top-notch travel and purchase protections, including: Having this card also increases the value of your points by 50% when you redeem for travel through the Chase Travel℠ site. For example, 60,000 points are worth $900 toward airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruise reservations when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. This is a good way to boost the value of your Chase points. On top of earning bonus points for Lyft rides, you can enroll to receive two years of free Lyft Pink All Access, which is worth $199 a year (activate by Dec. 31, 2024). You can also take advantage of complimentary access to DashPass which unlocks $0 delivery fees and lower service fees for a minimum of one year when you activate by December 31, 2027. [ Return to card summary ] The Prime Visa is only available to Amazon Prime members ($139 for an annual membership and $14.99 for a monthly membership) but is especially rewarding for Amazon purchases. If you're not a member, you can get the Amazon Visa, which offers 3% cash back at Amazon and Whole Foods. Rewards Welcome bonus Receive an instant $100 Amazon gift card upon approval. Annual fee $0 Notable perks The Prime Visa has no foreign transaction fees, purchase protection and extended warranty protection. It also has valuable travel insurance including, baggage delay insurance, lost luggage reimbursement and rental car coverage. [ Return to card summary ] The Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card is one of the most rewarding options for earning cash back in categories such as entertainment and dining. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn $300 cash after spending $500 on purchases in the first three months of account opening. Annual fee $0 Notable perks Through Nov. 14, 2024, cardholders can receive a monthly statement credit to cover an Uber One membership. This card also has no foreign transaction fees and grants you access to exclusive events and experiences through Capital One Entertainment and Capital One Dining. [ Return to card summary ] The Chase Freedom Flex® is an excellent cash-back card for maximizing your spending in a variety of categories. Rewards Welcome bonus Earn a $100 bonus after you spend $500 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. Plus, earn 5% cash back on grocery store purchases (excluding Target® and Walmart®) on up to $12,000 spent in the first year. Annual fee $0 Notable perks The Freedom Flex offers a competitive 0% intro APR for the first 15 months on new purchases and balance transfers (after, 20.49% - 29.24% variable APR). There's an intro balance transfer fee of either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater, on transfers made within 60 days of account opening. After that, it's either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. Cardholders can also enroll for three complimentary months of DashPass (activate by Dec. 31, 2027). [ Return to card summary ] Rewards credit cards come in all shapes and sizes, so it's important to take some time to choose the card that best matches your spending habits. You want a card that will reward you for your everyday purchases without having to adjust your spending to maximize card rewards. You should decide if you're willing to pay an annual fee for a card since this can help narrow down choices. Rewards cards can have annual fees of up to $550, which can be worthwhile, but not for everyone. Make sure you do the math to see if an annual fee is within your budget and if it can be outweighed by the card's benefits. Don't want to pay your credit card's annual fee? Here's how to ask for a retention offer Next, you should figure out what type of rewards you want to earn and if you want a simple rewards program or one that may require some work. If you want a straightforward card, some generic rewards cards offer the same rewards on all purchases, which require little planning. But if you want to maximize rewards in common spending categories, such as travel, dining and gas, consider bonus rewards cards that offer over 5% back on purchases and may require activation. Here's how credit card issuers classify purchases for bonus rewards It's also a good idea to consider the card's welcome offer. Some of the best rewards credit cards come with large welcome bonuses for new cardholders worth hundreds of dollars. And if you're planning a big purchase, look for cards with a 0% APR offer — this way, you can still earn rewards but will have more than a year without interest charges to pay off the purchase. Rewards aside, consider the added card perks, such as annual statement credits, lounge access and 0% APR periods, that can provide enhanced value. Learn more: How to choose the best credit card in 3 easy steps There are several different kinds of rewards cards. Rewards credit cards typically provide one of three reward structures: cash back, points or miles. The way you earn and redeem rewards varies based on the type of credit card you open. Additionally, rewards cards can be broken down into three groups based on how you earn rewards: In addition to the value of cash back, points and miles varying, redemption options also fluctuate. You may be able to redeem for a statement credit, travel, gift card, merchandise or more, depending on your card. To maximize your rewards card, you should familiarize yourself with the benefits and fees. Take note of any annual fees and the APR associated with your account, as well as the rewards rates and added perks, such as annual statement credits. Once you're familiar with the terms of your card, you can start to take full advantage of them. That may include setting reminders to use the $120 dining statement credit provided by the American Express® Gold Card or submitting a Global Entry application with the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card to receive up to $100 credit. If you have multiple credit cards, consider the rewards offered by each card before deciding which to use. Say you have the Citi Double Cash® Card and Chase Sapphire Reserve®. Use the Chase Sapphire Reserve® for all your travel and dining expenses to earn 3X points, then use the Citi Double Cash® Card for everything else to earn an effective 2% cash back: 1% when you buy and 1% after you pay your bill. Finally, pay attention to reward values when choosing redemption options. While rewards on cash-back credit cards maintain consistent value no matter how you spend them, that's rarely the case with travel rewards credit cards. Often, travel rewards are worth less if redeemed on non-travel purchases. On the other hand, if you transfer your rewards points or miles to one of the eligible loyalty programs your card issuer partners with, you can sometimes increase the value of your points. Find the best rewards credit card for you by reviewing offers in our credit card marketplace or get personalized offers via CardMatch™. A rewards credit card lets you earn cash back, points or miles when making purchases with that card. Beyond rewards, these cards sometimes come with additional perks like travel and purchase protections. Whether a rewards credit card would be a good addition to your wallet depends on whether it fits your spending habits and how you're going to use it. For example, if you're going to carry a balance, even the best rewards credit cards won't be worth it for you. High interest rates will negate the value of any rewards that you earn. Secondly, think about how complex you want your credit card strategy to be. If you find chasing the best value exciting and don't mind putting some thought into managing your cards, a rewards card with bonus rewards or rotating categories may be a good fit. If that sounds too complicated, you might do better with a flat-rate rewards card earning the same cash-back rate on everything you buy. Finally, ensure that the card's bonus categories match your everyday spending. If groceries are a big part of your family's budget, you might want to get a card that earns an elevated rewards rate at grocery stores. If you have a long daily commute, it may be a good idea to apply for a credit card that offers bonus rewards at gas stations. Consider perks and benefits as well since they may increase the card's value. This may be an especially important factor if you're looking into cards with annual fees. All in all, if a rewards credit card matches your spending habits and offers perks you can easily take advantage of to offset the annual fee, that card may be worth it for you. At the very least, if you don't ever carry a balance and treat spending on a credit card as you would a debit card, using a no-annual-fee cash-back card would give you rewards for the spending you were already going to do anyway. If you pay for purchases with cash or debit, you're leaving extra money on the table. Using one of the rewards credit cards mentioned above can earn you more than $2,000 in rewards over five years. This is a large amount of money that can help offset the cost of past purchases or fund upcoming expenses. Note, however, that using a rewards card only makes sense if you pay off your credit card bill in full every month. Otherwise, you'll be hit with interest charges. Not even the most generous rewards rates can offset the high APRs of credit cards. For that reason, if you tend to carry a balance, you might want to reevaluate your card spending habits before applying for a new card. Additionally, rewards credit cards often require good or excellent credit (FICO scores above 670), so check your credit score before applying for one of these cards. And if your credit score could use some work, consider CNBC Select's list of the best credit cards for bad credit. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every credit card review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of credit card products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best rewards credit cards. To determine which cards are the most rewarding, CNBC Select analyzed over 250 major credit cards issued through FDIC-insured banks and NCUA-insured credit unions that are widely available in the U.S.   We compared each card on a range of features, including rewards (e.g., cash back, points and miles), annual fees, welcome bonuses, introductory and standard APR and balance transfer fees and foreign transaction fees. We also considered additional perks (e.g., ongoing travel or merchant statement credits), cardholder protections (e.g., purchase protection, $0 liability protection and travel insurance), the application process when available (e.g., is there a credit pull or required credit score) and how easy it is to redeem points (e.g., are rewards are tied to a specific brand; if transferable, to how many/which partners, can you redeem for straight cash back).  We also considered CNBC Select audience data when available, such as general demographics and engagement with our content and tools.   For the cards that offered a rewards program, we considered consumer spending data forecasts from location intelligence firm Esri to determine where U.S. consumers are spending the most money, like on dining and travel. We used this to help determine what bonus categories are most useful for consumers. Since the value of a point or mile varies based on what they can be redeemed for, we also considered things like transferability and the ability to redeem for cash-back.  When choosing the best rewards credit cards, we focused on cards that offer some type of return for your spending, including cash-back, travel points and other types of rewards. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. For rates and fees of the American Express® Gold Card, please click here. For rates and fees of the Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express, please click here. For rates and fees of The Platinum Card from American Express®, please click here. For rates and fees of the Discover it® Student Cash Back, click here.   For rates and fees of the Discover it® Secured Credit Card, click here.   Information about Amazon credit cards has been collected independently by Select and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer prior to publication; if you purchase something through Select links, we may earn a commission. For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the above benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. *Eligibility and Benefit level varies by Card. Terms, Conditions and Limitations Apply. Please visit americanexpress.com/benefitsguide for more details. Underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company. Car Rental Loss or Damage Coverage is offered through American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.