Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate credit cards to write unbiased product reviews. The information for the following product(s) has been collected independently by Business Insider: Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Secured Credit Card, U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa® Secured Card, U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa® Secured Card, U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card, U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa Signature® Card. The details for these products have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer. Getting approved for the best credit cards can be challenging if you have a bad credit score. However, getting a credit card and making regular payments is also a vital step toward repairing damaged credit or even building credit from scratch. You can build credit with credit cards if you use them responsibly: By making all your payments on time, ideally in full), and making sure you don't go over your credit limit.  If you're digging yourself out from past credit problems or looking to establish a credit history, secured credit cards and other entry-level cards can help. Read on to see our picks for the best credit cards you can get to rebuild credit. Earn 3% cash back in the category of your choice: gas, online shopping, dining, travel, drug stores, or home improvement/furnishings. Earn 2% cash back when shopping at grocery stores and wholesale clubs. You’ll earn 3% and 2% cash back on the first $2,500 in combined choice category/grocery store/wholesale club purchases each quarter, then earn 1%. Earn 1% cash back from all other purchases. $0 N/A 28.24% Variable N/A New/Rebuilding The Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Secured Credit Card is unusual because it's one of the few secured credit cards that allow you to earn cash back — and even choose your 3% cash-back category. And with responsible use over time, the card can help you improve your credit score. Earn 5% cash back on your first $2,000 in combined eligible purchases each quarter in two categories you choose. Earn 5% cash back on prepaid air, hotel and car reservations booked directly in the Rewards Center. Earn 2% cash back on eligible purchases in your choice of one everyday category (like gas stations and EV charging stations, grocery stores and restaurants). Earn 1% cash back on all other eligible purchases. $0 N/A 29.24% Variable N/A New/Rebuilding The U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa® Secured Card can help you improve your credit score while earning up to 5% cash back on expenses like fast food and cell phone bills. No annual or hidden fees. Be automatically considered for a higher credit line in as little as 6 months with no additional deposit needed. $0 N/A 29.99% Variable N/A Limited, Bad The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card is a good choice for folks who are new to credit or rebuilding their credit score. Because it's a secured credit card, you'll have to put down a security deposit — but its minimum deposit is lower than that of many similar cards. Earn up to 1.5% cash back on eligible purchases after making 12 on-time monthly payments. Earn 1% cash back on eligible purchases right away. Earn 2% - 10% cash back at select merchants. $0 N/A 18.24% - 32.24% Variable N/A No credit and limited credit to Excellent If you have a limited credit history, the Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card, issued by WebBank, may be easier to qualify for. The card doesn't charge any fees and offers between 1.00% - 1.50% cash back on everyday purchases, making it one of the best credit cards for bad credit. If you've already got a good credit score, though, you should consider a different rewards credit card with better earnings and benefits. Earn 4X points on dining, takeout and restaurant delivery. Earn 2X points at grocery stores, grocery delivery, streaming services, gas stations and EV charging stations. Earn 1X point on all other eligible purchases. $0 N/A 29.24% Variable N/A New/Rebuilding The $0-annual-fee U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa® Secured Card is an above-average secured credit card, with high earning rates in extremely common spending categories and a $15 annual statement credit to reimburse streaming purchases. Earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel. Earn 1.5% cash back on every purchase with a refundable $200 minimum deposit. $0 N/A 29.99% Variable N/A Limited, No History The Capital One Quicksilver Secured Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great choice if you're new to credit cards and working on building your credit history and score. It's a rare secured credit card that offers decent rewards, but you'll have to put down a deposit after you're approved to secure your credit line. Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations, and more, up to the quarterly maximum when you activate. Earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases automatically. $0 0% intro APR for six months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable Earn Unlimited Cashback Match™ Fair/New to Credit The Discover it® Student Cash Back is a great choice if you're a student with limited credit history and want to earn a strong rate of cash back on your everyday spending without paying an annual fee. The Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Secured Credit Card is light on benefits, which is the case with most secured cards. However, it earns rewards at rates that compete with unsecured starter credit cards, including some that charge an annual fee. You'll earn 3% cash back on purchases in one category of your choice, which you can change each calendar month. The options include gas, online shopping, dining, travel, drug stores, and home improvement purchases, altogether covering a lot of bases. You'll also earn 2% cash back at grocery stores and wholesale clubs, with a cap of $2,500 in combined spending per quarter applied to the 3% and 2% categories. All other purchases earn 1% cash back. You can redeem cash back rewards in any amount as a statement credit to your card account or a deposit to an eligible Bank of America or Merrill account. Rewards can also be redeemed by check, but only in amounts of $25 or more. As a secured credit card, your account requires a security deposit of at least $200 and up to $5,000; how much you deposit influences the credit limit you receive. Secured card issuers typically hold deposits as collateral while the account is open, but Bank of America may refund your deposit after a periodic review based on factors like your credit history and banking relationship. The card has no annual fee, and rewards don't expire so long as your account remains open and in good standing. However, the card charges a foreign transaction fee of 3% of the US dollar amount of each transaction, so it's not ideal for travel abroad. Bank of America Customized Cash Rewards Secured credit card review The U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa® Secured Card is another that lets you choose your own bonus categories. Each quarter, you can earn 5% cash back on up to $2,000 of combined spending in two categories you select from a list. Options include home utilities, cell phone providers, TV/internet/streaming services, department stores, and more. You'll also earn uncapped 5% cash back on prepaid airfare, hotels, and car rentals booked through the U.S. Bank travel portal, 2% back on your choice of groceries, restaurants, or gas stations and EV charging stations, and 1% back on all other purchases. You can redeem rewards as a statement credit to your card account, as a deposit into a U.S. Bank checking or savings account, or as a prepaid U.S. Bank debit card. Rewards have a minimum redemption threshold of $25, and they expire 36 months after the billing cycle in which they were earned. Since there's no advantage to stockpiling rewards, it's best to redeem them as you earn them. This card has no annual fee, but does charge foreign transaction fees and has a minimum security deposit of $300. To help rebuild your credit, U.S. Bank regularly reports your card status to the three major credit bureaus. With on-time payments, cardholders can get the security deposit returned and graduate to the non-secured version of the card (the U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa Signature® Card      
                              ), which offers similar rewards with superior benefits and a lower APR. US Bank Cash Plus Secured credit card review The Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card is a bare-bones option with no rewards and few benefits, but it offers cardholders the functionality of a credit card account at what may be a relatively low upfront cost.  The minimum security deposit can be as low as $49 depending on your creditworthiness, though it may instead be $99 or $200, which puts it in line with other secured cards. Those initial deposits yield a credit limit of $200. You can provide a larger deposit (up to $1,000) for an equivalent higher credit limit, but in that case, you'd be better off choosing one of the more rewarding cards on this list. The security deposit is refundable regardless of the amount if your account is upgraded or closed in good standing.  Capital One reports your account to all three major credit bureaus, and automatically considers you for credit line increases or a switch to the unsecured version of the card (the Capital One Platinum Credit Card) after six months of on-time payments. The card has no annual fee and no foreign transaction fees, and allows you to add authorized users at no cost (see rates and fees). Capital One Platinum Secured credit card review The Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card is another good option for avoiding a security deposit, since it requires no deposit at all. Unlike the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card, however, you have no opportunity to secure a higher initial credit line by paying a higher deposit. Instead, you'll receive an initial credit line of $300 or more based on your creditworthiness. You can then increase that credit line by making on-time payments and maintaining your credit score. The card has no annual fee and no foreign transaction fees, and goes a step further by charging no late fees and no returned payment fees. You'll still want to pay your bill in full and on time to avoid interest charges, but at least the fee won't be tacked on if you do miss a payment. Rewards on the Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card are structured to incentivize timely payments. You'll start by earning 1% cash back on all purchases, but that rate increases to 1.25% after you make six on-time monthly payments, and increases further to 1.5% after you make 12 on-time monthly payments. Petal also partners with select merchants to offer higher cashback rates ranging from 2-10%, but those merchants are only disclosed once you already have the card. You can redeem cash back for a statement credit in any amount up to your current rewards balance. Alternatively, you can request a check or ACH transfer by phone with a minimum redemption of $20. Petal 2 Visa credit card review The U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa® Secured Card offers an excellent return for a secured product. You'll earn 4 points per dollar on dining purchases (including takeout and delivery), plus 2 points per dollar at grocery stores, gas stations and EV charging stations, and on a long list of streaming services like Amazon Prime, Netflix, and Hulu. The bonus categories are uncapped, so you'll earn at those rates for every dollar you spend on eligible purchases, plus 1 point per dollar elsewhere. Points are worth 1 cent apiece when you redeem for statement credits to your account, with a minimum redemption of 2,500 points. You can also redeem for travel and gift cards at the same rate, but with a lower threshold of 1,000 points. Unlike the U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa® Secured Card, these rewards don't expire, so there's no rush to use them.  On top of competitive rewards, the U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa® Secured Card offers a $15 annual streaming credit valid on the same services that earn 2 points per dollar spent. The credit is applied automatically following 11 consecutive months of eligible streaming service purchases. In other respects, this card is similar to the U.S. Bank Cash+® Visa® Secured Card discussed above. There's no annual fee, but you will be charged foreign transaction fees. The minimum security deposit is $300, and U.S. Bank will periodically assess your eligibility for an upgrade to the unsecured version of the card (U.S. Bank Altitude® Go Visa Signature® Card      
                              ). US Bank Altitude Go Secured credit card review The Capital One Quicksilver Secured Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great fit for those who prefer a simple rewards structure. You'll earn unlimited 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through the Capital One travel portal, plus unlimited 1.5% cash back on other purchases. Earning at a consistent rate means there's no need to keep track of bonus categories or calendars. You can redeem rewards for statement credits to your card account or cash back by check, as well as for gift cards and travel. You can set up automatic redemptions for a certain threshold or date, but rewards don't expire as long as your account is open and in good standing, so there's no pressure to redeem until you're ready. Capital One offers an initial credit line equal to your security deposit, with a minimum of $200. Your account is reported to all three major credit bureaus, and is eligible for credit line increases and a transition to the unsecured version of the card (Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card) after six months of on-time payments. The security deposit is refundable if your account is upgraded or closed with a fully paid balance. In addition to the high earning rate for select travel purchases, the card doesn't charge foreign transaction fees, making it a good option among secured cards for international travel (see rates and fees). The Capital One Quicksilver Secured Cash Rewards Credit Card also has no annual fee and allows free authorized users, so it's useful for adding additional cardholders.  Capital One Quicksilver Secured card review The Discover it® Student Cash Back is one of the easiest credit cards to get to establish credit. It doesn't require a security deposit and has no annual fee, making it ideal for college students looking to build (or rebuild) credit.  The card earns 5% cash back on up to $1,500 spent each quarter when you activate (then 1% back), and 1% back everywhere else with no limits (from July 1 to September 30, 2024, earn 5% cash back at Walmart and grocery stores on up to $1,500 in purchases after enrollment, then 1%). The card doesn't offer a conventional welcome bonus, but it comes with Discover's Cashback Match program that matches all the rewards you earn in your first year as a cardholder. You can redeem cash-back rewards in any amount as a statement credit to your card account or a direct deposit to a linked bank account. You can also redeem rewards for a variety of retail gift cards, which sometimes offer bonus value of up to 25%, or use rewards as payment on Amazon and PayPal. Cash-back rewards don't expire, so there's no rush to redeem until you're ready. The Discover it® Student Cash Back is light on other benefits, although it offers a 0% intro APR for six months on purchases (then a 18.24% - 27.24% Variable APR), as well as late payment forgiveness that waives the fee for your first late payment. The card also has no foreign transaction fees, though Discover has lower acceptance abroad than in the US. Discover it Student Cash Back card review The main benefit of using a credit card to rebuild credit is the ability to build a positive credit history through responsible and consistent usage. Credit card companies usually report financial activity to major credit bureaus, which can boost your credit score over time and responsible use. Cardholders get access to credit education tools, and those with secured credit cards often earn the opportunity to upgrade to unsecured cards over time.  To maximize benefits, use the card responsibly by making on-time payments, keeping your balance low relative to your credit limit, and regularly monitoring your credit score. Utilize any available credit education resources to improve your credit habits. When looking for a credit card to help you build credit, evaluate whether the card is secured or unsecured, the associated fees and APR, and the card's credit reporting practices. Look for cards that offer benefits such as credit score tracking and credit education tools. Potential downsides include fees, such as annual fees or security deposits for secured cards, and higher interest rates. Additionally, these cards may offer limited rewards and perks compared to traditional credit cards. Yes, many credit cards for rebuilding credit are designed for individuals with bad credit or no credit history. Secured credit cards, in particular, are often easier to obtain as they require a security deposit, which acts as collateral for the credit limit. You can build credit with a credit card by opening and using a credit card responsibly can help you rebuild your credit history. As long as you use your card regularly (even by putting a couple of small charges on it each month) and pay it off on time and in full, you should see an improvement in your credit score over time.  If you have a low credit score and want a credit card to help rebuild your credit, you'll want to stick to applying for cards that you're likely to qualify for (that is, avoid credit cards that require good credit or better). Secured credit cards, which require a security deposit for approval, are typically the easiest to get approved for.You might also want to check credit cards with preapproval; these are where the bank shows you if you're likely to be approved for a card before doing a hard inquiry on your credit (which can decrease your credit score).  Yes, it's possible to rebuild your credit without a credit card, although opening a credit card and using it responsibly is one of the faster ways to improve your credit score. One way is to become an authorized user on someone else's credit card — as long as they have good credit, your score should see a boost. That's why many parents add their children as authorized users to give them a head start on building credit.  Other options include opening a credit-builder loan or a secured loan, using one of the best rent reporting services so that your rent payments are reported to the credit bureaus, or using a free credit-building product like Experian Boost. The best credit card for credit repair is any credit card you're able to get approved for and use responsibly. That means paying off your statement balance in full each month and not spending more than you can afford. This will help repair your credit score by showing the lender that you can be trusted to repay your debt. Over time, your credit limit could also increase, which will positively impact your credit score. Business Insider's credit card experts considered dozens of credit cards for bad credit that are geared to those who want to rebuild their credit score. We narrowed down our list to include the best of the bunch, focusing primarily on cards that earn rewards or offer a unique feature not seen on other credit cards for rebuilding credit.  We evaluated the cards based on several factors, including: You can read our guide to how we rate credit cards at Business Insider for a full breakdown of our methodology. ***Terms, conditions, and exclusions apply.  Refer to your Guide to Benefits for more details. Travel Accident Insurance is not guaranteed, it depends on the level of benefits you get at application.For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. ***Terms, conditions, and exclusions apply.  Refer to your Guide to Benefits for more details. Travel Accident Insurance is not guaranteed, it depends on the level of benefits you get at application. For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. Jump to