You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Expert Reviewed Updated: Aug 12, 2024, 11:13am College students stand at a crossroads—and for those just starting out in the adulting world, gaining access to credit can be a challenge. Banks want loyal customers, but also want a healthy credit score to prove you can and will pay back your debts. Enter the student credit card. With lower credit limits and rewards tailored to those in college, student credit cards can provide a bridge to more valuable credit offers in the future. We’ve reviewed the best student credit cards of August to help you decide which one is right for you. Note that the CARD Act of 2009 stipulates credit cards cannot be issued to anyone under 21 unless someone co-signs for them or they can demonstrate sufficient independent income. 
                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                     Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the credit card methodology for the ratings below. Up to 5% Reward Rate 
Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations,Read More  Cashback Match™ $0 18.24% - 27.24% Variable APR 
						
							Fair/New to Credit													 Here’s an excellent way for students with average or limited credit scores to gain experience managing credit. No annual fee, no penalty APR, plus up to 5% cashback rewards in rotating categories (up to a quarterly cap with enrollment, 1% back on other purchases) earn this card an “A” in our book. Up to 5% Reward Rate 
Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations,Read More  Cashback Match™ $0 18.24% - 27.24% Variable APR 
						
							Fair/New to Credit													 With cash back, a welcome bonus and an introductory APR offer, students using the Discover it® Student Cash Back can access card benefits usually reserved for those with established credit. Why We Like It You can earn cash-back rewards on every purchase with no annual fee. The 5% quarterly categories are historically in everyday spending categories (up to $1,500 in purchases per quarter, activation required). Discover also provides an incredibly generous Cashback Match™ to kick your first-year card earnings up to the next level. Those new to credit also receive a number of security features including a credit scorecard, online privacy protection and alerts to monitor your credit activity. What We Don’t Like It’s not ideal for international travelers since Discover isn’t accepted as widely outside of the U.S. as other cards. Discover doesn’t disclose its quarterly categories in advance making it hard to plan upcoming purchases to maximize rewards. Depending on your spending, the bonus categories may not align with your expenses. There’s also a relatively low spending cap on rewards each quarter. So you may not earn the highest rewards on all of your expenses, especially when the categories are typically high-spend areas. Who It’s Best For The Discover it® Student Cash Back card is best for students who want to earn cash-back rewards and don’t mind manually activating their rewards each quarter. An engaging and fun student credit card, the Discover it® Student Cash Back combines useful benefits for cardholders to learn about building credit history while earning extra cash back each quarter on select categories. Up to 10% Reward Rate 
10% cash back on purchases made with Uber & Uber Eats through 11/14/2024, unlimited 5% cash back on hotels andRead More  $50 $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) 
						
							Average, Fair, Limited													 Earn flat-rate rewards and pay no annual fee to keep things easy with the Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card (rates & fees). Why We Like It When you’re starting out with credit, simplicity can be a major selling point. The Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card provides solid rewards on all purchases with no categories to activate. You’ll also get bonus rewards for Uber and Uber Eats purchases through November 14, 2024 and on hotel and car rentals booked through Capital One Travel. The card provides extended warranty, complimentary concierge services, virtual card numbers and $0 fraud liability for peace of mind when you use it. Capital One’s policy of no foreign transaction fees makes this ideal for international travel. What We Don’t Like The APR on this card is pretty high. If you need to carry a balance, interest will add up quickly. Who It’s Best For The Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is best for students who want to set it and forget it to earn rewards and may need a card for international trips. Up to 10% Reward Rate 
Earn 10% cash back on purchases made through Uber & Uber Eats through 11/14/2024, unlimited 3% cash back on dining,Read More  Earn $50 bonus $0 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) 
						
							Average, Fair, Limited													 Students who spend a lot on food, like those living off-campus without a meal plan, can earn strong rewards on grocery stores and dining (plus entertainment) with the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card. Why We Like It The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is very similar to the Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card, with the exception of the rewards structure. Earning unlimited 3% cash back on high-spend categories like grocery stores and dining is rare, especially on a student card. As an added bonus, you’ll also earn rewards whether you shop at home or while studying abroad. What We Don’t Like All other purchases earn at a lower rate, so it isn’t a good fit for students whose high spending is outside the bonus categories. As with many cards, the high end of the APR (rates & fees) range can swamp you in interest. If you need to carry a balance, opt for another card. Who It’s Best For The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is best for students who want to earn higher rates of cash back on dining, entertainment and at grocery stores. 1.5X Reward Rate 
Earn unlimited 1.5 points per $1 spent on all purchases, with no annual fee and no foreign transaction fees andRead More  25,000 points $0 19.24% - 29.24% Variable APR on purchases and balance transfers 
						
							Good/Excellent							(700 - 749)						 You can earn points on every purchase to redeem toward travel with the Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card for Students, which charges no foreign transaction fees. Why We Like It This card has a generous welcome offer for new cardholders, which could give your rewards balance a nice boost. What We Don’t Like The travel rewards from this card must be redeemed through Bank of America—you can’t transfer them to combine with your existing airline or hotel points. Rewards also have their highest value when redeemed to cover travel, but you can also choose to redeem points as a statement credit (at full value) to offset eligible travel purchases. As a Visa, you’ll have basic purchase protections, but the card doesn’t offer extended warranties or travel protection. Who It’s Best For The Bank of America® Travel Rewards credit card for Students is best for students who want a card that earns points that can be redeemed for travel. Unlimited 1.5% Reward Rate 
							Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases.						 $200 $0 19.24% - 29.24% Variable APR on purchases and balance transfers 
						
							Excellent/Good							(700 - 749)						 If you charged more than you could afford with your first card, the Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards credit card for Students provides an excellent balance transfer offer to buy yourself time to pay those expenses off. Why We Like It In addition to the introductory APR offer, this card rocks for its ongoing flat-rate cash-back rewards. New cardholders can qualify for a sizable welcome bonus, as well. What We Don’t Like Balance transfer fees will eat away at some of your potential savings, so do the calculations and weigh your options carefully. This card isn’t ideal if you plan to travel outside the U.S. since it charges foreign transaction fees. Who It’s Best For The Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards credit card for Students is best for those needing a balance transfer to pay down credit card debt. Choose your 3% category 
Earn 3% cash back in the category of your choice, automatic 2% at grocery stores and wholesale clubs (up toRead More  $200 $0 19.24% - 29.24% Variable APR on purchases and balance transfers 
						
							Excellent/Good							(700 - 749)						 The Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards credit card for Students lets you pick your preferred earning category for elevated rewards, giving you a tailor-made approach. Why We Like It This card offers a rare chance to earn elevated rewards at wholesale clubs if you’re stocking up before heading back to campus. On top of the strong rewards there’s a generous welcome bonus and introductory APR offer available. What We Don’t Like Bank of America lets you change your selection once each calendar month, but you must do it manually. There’s also a quarterly rewards cap on your highest earning categories, so big spenders may miss out on elevated rewards. Choosing only one category to earn the coveted 3% in cash back means the remainder of your spending outside of your eligible chosen category, grocery stores and wholesale clubs will earn a meager 1%. Who It’s Best For The Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards credit card for Students is best for those who want maximum flexibility in bonus categories or regularly spend heavily in one of the available categories. This card offers valuable cash-back rewards to responsible students with good to excellent credit. The savviest cardholders will pay close attention to their top spending category to maximize their quarterly 3% cash back option. Up to 2% Reward Rate 
Earn 2% cash back at Gas Stations and Restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, automatically. PlusRead More  Cashback Match™ $0 18.24% - 27.24% Variable APR 
						
							Fair/New to Credit													 You’ll earn extra cash back on gas and restaurants with the Discover it® Student Chrome for a targeted approach that could make sense with your lifestyle. Why We Like It The Cashback Match™, along with no annual fee, makes this an appealing option. There’s also a short-term intro APR offer on purchases that can help spread out the initial costs of the semester. What We Don’t Like Other cards may out-earn this card after the first year, especially if your spending tends to be varied. If you’re limiting eating out or don’t have a car on campus, this card isn’t for you. Discover isn’t as widely accepted as Visa or Mastercard. If you’re headed to the Caribbean for spring break, you may need a backup card. Who It’s Best For The Discover it® Student Chrome card is best for students who spend the most on gas and dining. To generate our list of the best student credits, Forbes Advisor regularly reviews the student credit cards in our database and compares them on a variety of factors including: Forbes Advisor reevaluates each credit card list at least every 12 months to determine if any cards need to be added and/or removed. However, a list could be updated sooner if significant changes are made to the mentioned cards or if a new credit card is announced that’s likely to impact the category. To learn more about setting yourself up for success, take a deeper look at what high school graduates should know about credit cards. Banks design student credit cards for college students who may have limited income. They typically set lower credit limits, but may be a smart choice for students with no credit history. Student credit cards may require you to provide proof of college enrollment and some income. Student credit cards function the same as any other credit card—they’re just designed and marketed to students. The card terms are available to those with limited credit history. Applicants will likely be required to affirm they are currently students at an approved institution. Student credit cards’ terms and conditions are very similar to other credit cards. The same types of fees and interest are charged, and many of the same perks and benefits exist in the student card market. However, you’re unlikely to find luxurious travel rewards or protections, and rewards may be lower compared to the best rewards cards on the market. But otherwise, a student card works the same as any other credit card. If you’re enrolled in a two- or four-year college or university, you may be eligible for a student credit card, even if you don’t have a credit history. Some trade school students may qualify, as well. From a high level, learning how to get a student credit card is straightforward: Simply choose a card and apply. However, there are several nuances that can improve your odds. Remember you must be over 18 to get a card solely in your name—and applicants under 21 must show sufficient income to qualify. It is possible to get a credit card as a non-U.S. citizen, and some card providers will issue cards to international students, but in most cases, you will need to be a U.S. citizen to apply. In most cases, the research and decisions will take more brain power. The actual act of applying for a card is the easy part, but it is an essential part of the process: Application decisions are often returned within minutes, though in some cases it may take days or weeks to fully process your application. If you’re approved, you’ll usually receive your card in the mail within seven to 10 business days. When applying for any credit card, you’ll likely be asked to show you have sufficient income to make monthly payments. This is especially true for anyone applying independently under the age of 21. Though you’ll need to be truthful, there’s a lot you can legally report as income on a student card application, including: As with any application for a credit card or financial account, it’s important to be as honest and accurate as possible. Additionally, if you are under 21, it’s important that you only report individual income, even if you live with a domestic partner. Lying on a credit card application is considered fraud and is a federal crime. Approval for any credit card is never guaranteed, but you can improve your odds by providing complete and accurate information. To estimate your odds of approval in advance, some issuers offer a preapproval check on their website. By answering a few preliminary questions, the issuer can give you a good idea, if you’d be approved before pulling your credit report. Be aware that preapproval or prequalification does not represent a guarantee of approval, so the results should be treated like a best guess. Ask an expert Caroline Lupini Credit Cards Managing Editor Becky Pokora Credit Cards Writer Harlan Vaughn Credit Card Expert Student cards typically offer lower credit limits to start. My first credit card—a student card—initially offered a $500 limit. With responsible use, I was able to increase my limit over time. Credit Cards Managing Editor Realistically, most students will only be eligible for a line of credit under $1,000 and often more like $300-500. A more important number to keep in mind is your credit utilization rate, or the amount you have charged compared to your credit limit. Keep this under 30% to keep your credit score high: That means having a maximum $150 balance if you have a $500 credit line. Credit Cards Writer Ideally, the credit limit for a student credit card shouldn’t be more than a couple of weeks of expenses—$500 to $1,000 is plenty. This serves to make the card useful for regular use and prevents temptation to overspend, which helps students build positive credit history (and higher credit limits in the future). Credit Card Expert If you’re a college student with proof of income, consider getting a student credit card. However, it’s easiest to apply after you have turned 21. The CARD Act of 2009 restricts those under 21 from getting a credit card unless they’re able to demonstrate independent income or have a creditworthy co-signer. Since many credit cards no longer allow co-signers, someone under 21 may need a more substantial, independent source of income to qualify compared to older applicants. Ironically, because student credit cards are often designed for those new to credit, it can be easier to apply for a student card before graduation rather than waiting to apply for a non-student card as a recent college graduate, especially if you don’t have a job lined up right away. If you’re about to apply for your first credit card, we recommend you read our guide to applying for your first credit card. Signing up for a student credit card can be a solid stepping stone for learning how credit works and how to manage your finances responsibly while earning rewards or paying no foreign transaction fees when abroad. Having a credit card can be helpful in an emergency, when you don’t have cash on hand or if you need to rent a car. However, credit cards come with significant risks. You may have heard horror stories about overspending and high-interest charges. If using a credit card concerns you, you may want to consider a secured credit card. These cards only allow you to spend up to the amount you have as a security deposit. Read more. What Is a Secured Credit Card? Applying for a student credit card, especially if you’ve never had a credit card before, can help you start building credit. It’s far more convenient to exit school with good credit, especially if you plan to apply for other cards, loans or a mortgage. It can even lower your security deposit with utility companies or landlords. As you transition from adolescence to adulthood, it’s important to learn how to responsibly manage a budget day to day—especially when juggling tuition costs, student loans and other educational expenses. While credit cards can help stretch finances in a pinch, it’s important to avoid spending money you don’t have. Credit cards are convenient tools to manage finances—not magic access to free money. Keep in mind that with card interest rates so high, paying down debt is harder than usual. A cash-back rewards card was the ideal choice for me as a student. Since I was relatively new to using credit cards, I chose one without an annual fee and was able to earn some rewards from my purchases. – Evan Coleman, Credit Cards Editor Students who study abroad can use student credit cards without foreign transaction fees to save on a number of possible fees and charges associated with other forms of payment or access to funds abroad. Ask an expert Becky Pokora Credit Cards Writer Evan Coleman Forbes Advisor Editor Clint Proctor Credit Cards Lead Editor Regular credit cards are usually the better option, since they come with more product choices, stronger rewards and higher credit limits. There’s one caveat, though: You’ll likely need a good credit score and stable income for approval. Because of this, most college students should be looking at student credit cards as a way to build credit and work up to more card choices. Credit Cards Writer For students hoping to build credit, a student credit card is a better choice and often easier to gain approval with limited credit history. Applications for these cards may also consider additional income sources—like scholarships or financial support from a parent—potentially resulting in higher approval chances or credit limits. Forbes Advisor Editor Student credit cards generally have easier approval requirements than regular cards, which makes them appealing to college students who have little to no credit history. Plus, after you graduate you may be able to request an upgrade to the non-student version of your card. Your credit card issuer may even upgrade your account automatically. Credit Cards Lead Editor Before applying for a student credit card, carefully consider your options. Here are some questions to ask: Carefully consider your spending needs when selecting the right card for you. Many credit cards charge annual fees. Typically, these cards also provide better rewards, more benefits and other valuable perks. To determine if an annual fee is worth it, the question you should ask is, “Will the rewards and benefits of the card pay for the annual fee and bring me more value than a card with no annual fee?” You’ll also want to confirm that you can afford the annual fee, especially since they are often charged to your card immediately upon approval. Consider the card’s annual percentage rate (APR) or the interest you’ll be charged if you carry a balance. Read the card terms and conditions page before applying to evaluate the potential fees and learn how to avoid them. Typical credit card fees to be aware of include: Less common fees that should encourage you to be cautious and read with extra care: A major reason many students should consider student credit cards is the opportunity to build healthy credit. This won’t happen, though, if the card issuer doesn’t report your account information to major credit bureaus. For best results, find a card issuer that reports to all three major consumer credit bureaus—Experian, Equifax and Transunion. Using a student card to build stronger credit will help you gain access to more affordable types of loans and more rewarding credit card offers. Student credit cards often offer decent rewards in the form of either cash back or points. Though student card rewards remain unlikely to compete with the best rewards cards on the market, they’re often better than rewards offered by secured cards and other options for rebuilding your credit. Traditional student cards are unsecured credit cards, which don’t require security deposits. Secured credit cards are another credit card option. These require cardholders to provide a security deposit that usually determines the amount of available credit. They can be the best option if you’re worried about spending out of control. Secured cards hold your deposit until you close the account or graduate to an unsecured card, so an unsecured card can help you keep money in your pocket. Plan to travel abroad? You’ll want to make sure your card will be accepted internationally and not charge you for each purchase abroad. Card networks play an important role in international acceptance: Visa and Mastercard are the most widely accepted by international merchants, but Discover isn’t accepted in all foreign countries. Foreign transaction fees typically range between 1% and 3% depending on the card and issuer, but many travel-oriented cards forgo these fees entirely. Even if you don’t leave the U.S., these fees can kick in if you shop at international retailers. Either way, these fees can stack up quickly and make travel much more expensive. Be sure not to confuse foreign transaction fees with currency conversion fees. While student credit cards are designed for beginners, they often come with a steep learning curve. Unfortunately, the consequences for missed payments and overspending are the same as those for traditional credit cards, and issuers rarely leave much room for mistakes. To make the most of a student credit card, use the opportunity to build better credit and practice smart spending habits, including: Before signing any credit card agreement, always read the fine print and understand your responsibilities. You are committing to repay the amount charged plus any resulting interest and fees. The mental math of a credit card can be deceptive, and you may find that you’ve spent more than you imagined by the end of the month. It’s wise to keep a record of every purchase you charge or to review your credit card balance online to ensure you have an accurate understanding of your current balance. Set money aside to cover the purchases you’ve already made so that your bank account reflects the real funds you have available. If you tend to overspend, consider a few strategies to stay on budget. If you overspend on eating out, limit yourself to a cash budget for the month. If you’re prone to shopping, leave the tag on until you wear the item. Keep track of your receipts, and if you have buyer’s remorse, return it. If, for some reason, your application is denied or you feel you are not yet ready to open a student credit card account, there are a few other options that may provide similar benefits and financial freedom:  
 For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. Many issuers allow students to “graduate” or convert an account to a non-student version without losing the account’s payment history, so you likely won’t have to worry about this too much. Regardless of how the issuer classifies your account, the card should continue to work as expected after graduation. The age of your oldest open account affects your credit score, so if your student credit card is your first credit card, you likely won’t want to close it when you graduate. Even if you keep the account open, you may want a new card. The best cards for recent college graduates may offer more and better perks or opportunities to earn rewards at a better rate. If you choose to leave your card open but stop using it, make sure to keep an eye on the account. You can do this by regularly checking for fraudulent use or fees charged to your account. If this is your first time managing a credit card account, it may be wise to start with one. As you get used to how credit works, you may wish to expand to a few cards over time, depending on your spending habits, where you spend your money and what you qualify for based on your credit report. While there may be exceptions, you can expect a card issuer to request proof of enrollment at a college or university when applying for a student credit card. For example, Discover requires an applicant to show proof of education when applying online, and Capital One’s student card applications ask for your degree type and expected graduation date. As for Bank of America, your application will ask whether you are a full-time or part-time student and what year you are in school. Keep in mind that credit card applications are legal documents, so you should not lie about student status to qualify for a student credit card. Yes, student cards with no credit requirements are typically designed for those enrolled in an academic institution who might not have existing credit. Having no credit when applying is better than having a negative credit history. Yes, students can typically receive approval for a credit card without a job, but several caveats exist. Proof of independent income must be provided for students under 21, or someone over 21 must co-sign for the card. For students over 21, some form of income will help increase the chances of approval for a credit card, but a job may not be strictly required. 

 
                Credit cards and banking specialist Jenn Underwood brings over 16 years of personal finance experience to the table. After a decade of teaching courses in banking, debt reduction, budgeting and credit improvement, she moved into writing content and fintech product development. Over the last four years, Jenn has contributed to Forbes Advisor and a variety of fintech companies. She has served as a UX consultant, moderated discussions on open banking and been a guest on a number of personal finance podcasts.             
                Jerod Morales is a deputy editor at Forbes Advisor and a travel rewards expert. He took a deep dive into points and miles in 2016, searching for a way to make travel both possible and affordable for his growing family. Now, as a dad to four sons, he and his wife enjoy introducing their kids to cultures and cities across the globe as often as they can.             
                Yanely Espinal is the director of educational outreach for Next Gen Personal Finance, a nonprofit working to ensure that every high school student gets a full semester of personal finance education—including lessons in proper credit card usage—before graduation. She is often described as a ball of energy, with a gift for storytelling, and a passion for explaining credit cards and other financial concepts in a straightforward way. 

While working as an elementary school teacher, Yanely decided to change her financial life by paying off $20,000 of debt in just 18 months. In 2015 she created MissBeHelpful, a YouTube channel and social media platform that now has over 5 million views, to help others learn the money skills she never learned in school. Some of her most popular videos on the channel include “5 Things to Consider When Applying for a Credit Card” and “When To Pay Your Credit Card Bill and Increase Your Credit Score.” 

Her book, “Mind Your Money,” is an Amazon bestseller and was a Plutus Award finalist for Best New Personal Finance Book of 2023. She hosts Financially Inclined from Marketplace, a video podcast for teens about money lessons for living life your own way. Yanely is also a member of CNBC's Financial Wellness Advisory Council and an Advocate at the NGPF Mission 2030 Fund.  