Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate credit cards to write unbiased product reviews. The information for the following product(s) has been collected independently by Business Insider: Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards Credit Card for Students, Bank of America® Travel Rewards Credit Card for Students, BankAmericard® Credit Card for Students. The details for these products have not been reviewed or provided by the issuer. If you're a student without established credit, there are still plenty of credit cards you can qualify for. Then, once you've improved your credit score by using a credit card responsibly, it can be easier to upgrade to one of the best credit cards that earn lucrative rewards. Earn 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®). Earn 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel (terms apply). Earn 8% cash back on Capital One Entertainment purchases. Earn 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great pick for students who spend a lot on food and going out, because it earns 3% cash back on dining, groceries (excluding superstores like Walmart and Target), streaming, and entertainment. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a good choice for students who prefer a cash-back credit card but don't want to keep track of multiple bonus categories. Earns 1.5% cash back on all purchases $0 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account 16.99% - 26.99% Variable Good to Excellent The Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards Credit Card for Students offers three compelling features: consistent cash back rewards on all purchases, a lengthy 0% introductory APR, and a welcome bonus that provides a sizable return compared to the spending requirement. Earn unlimited 1.5 points per dollar on purchases. $0 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account 17.99% - 27.99% Variable 25,000 online bonus points Good to Excellent A good student credit card should offer rewards and useful benefits to those with limited credit history and the Bank of America® Travel Rewards Credit Card for Students hits several of those notes. However, while the card is marketed to students, those without established credit may have difficulty getting approved. Doesn't earn rewards, but there's an intro APR offer $0 0% intro APR for the first 21 billing cycles on purchases and balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening 15.74% - 25.74% Variable Good to Excellent With an industry-leading introductory 0% APR period and no annual fee, the BankAmericard® Credit Card for Students presents a strong opportunity to do just that. However, while the card is marketed to students, it's not a great fit for those without an established credit history. Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations, and more, up to the quarterly maximum when you activate. Earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases automatically. $0 0% intro APR for six months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable Earn Unlimited Cashback Match™ Fair/New to Credit The Discover it® Student Cash Back is a great choice if you're a student with limited credit history and want to earn a strong rate of cash back on your everyday spending without paying an annual fee. Earn 2% cash back at Gas Stations and Restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, automatically. Plus earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 0% intro APR for six months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable Earn Unlimited Cashback Match™ Fair/New to Credit The Discover it® Student Chrome is a great starter credit card to help you build credit while learning how to responsibly use a credit card. It's worth noting that this student credit card is nearly identical to the regular Discover it® Chrome in almost every way, with the addition of a few student-specific perks. Earn up to 1.5% cash back on eligible purchases after making 12 on-time monthly payments. Earn 1% cash back on eligible purchases right away. Earn 2% - 10% cash back at select merchants. $0 N/A 18.24% - 32.24% Variable N/A No credit and limited credit to Excellent If you have a limited credit history, the Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card, issued by WebBank, may be easier to qualify for. The card doesn't charge any fees and offers between 1.00% - 1.50% cash back on everyday purchases, making it one of the best credit cards for bad credit. If you've already got a good credit score, though, you should consider a different rewards credit card with better earnings and benefits. Earn up to 4.25% APY and build your credit score without worrying about overspending. No credit checks and no credit history required to open the card. Firstcard users are eligible to apply for Firstcard's $10,000 Student Scholarship.The application deadline is September 30. $0 N/A 0% N/A No credit history   Students often struggle to build credit due to limited income and various other barriers to entry. But there are several issuers who specifically seek to meet their needs, and Business Insider's credit cards team has chosen the best student cards of 2024.  Here are the top student credit cards to consider if you're new to credit. But if you already have a good credit score and a credit history under your belt, you may want to check out our guides to the best cash back credit cards and best no annual fee credit cards as well. The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great pick for students who spend a lot on dining, groceries, entertainment, and eligible streaming services. You'll earn 3% cash back in all of these categories with no limits, and 1% cash back on all other purchases.  You can earn a $50 cash bonus once you spend $100 on purchases within three months of account opening. That's a low minimum spending requirement that most students can easily reach. The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card also offers very good benefits for a student card, including: Until November 14, 2024, Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card cardholders can automatically earn unlimited 10% cash back on Uber and Uber Eats. In addition, through the same date, cardholders can also activate a complimentary Uber One membership, which comes with perks like $0 delivery fees on eligible Uber Eats orders, up to 5% back on Uber rides, up to 10% back with Uber Eats, and more. Earn 3% cash back on dining, entertainment, popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding superstores like Walmart® and Target®). Earn 5% cash back on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel (terms apply). Earn 8% cash back on Capital One Entertainment purchases. Earn 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a great pick for students who spend a lot on food and going out, because it earns 3% cash back on dining, groceries (excluding superstores like Walmart and Target), streaming, and entertainment. If you're a student with no time to keep track of bonus categories and prefer straightforward cash back on all your purchases, the Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a good choice. The welcome offer is $50 cash bonus once you spend $100 on purchases within three months of account opening. With this card, you can earn a lot of cash back quickly — all eligible purchases earn 1.5% back, with no caps. It also comes with benefits you don't often find on student credit cards, including: As with the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card, the Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card earns 10% back with Uber and Uber Eats and offers a complimentary Uber One membership through November 14, 2024. Earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases. $0 N/A 19.99% - 29.99% Variable Earn a $50 cash bonus Average, Fair, Limited The Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card is a good choice for students who prefer a cash-back credit card but don't want to keep track of multiple bonus categories. For those who prefer the simplicity of not having to keep track of bonus categories, the Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards Credit Card for Students is a strong choice. Along with a welcome bonus offer of $200 cash rewards bonus after making $1,000 in purchases in the first 90 days from account opening, this card earns 1.5% cash back on all purchases with no caps. New cardholders can also take advantage of an excellent 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account, followed by a 16.99% - 26.99% Variable APR. Whether you need to pay off your school supplies over time or are looking to splurge on a spring break trip, having a period of 0% interest can save you money. If you want to transfer a balance and have the opportunity to pay it down before interest kicks in, check out our picks for the best balance transfer credit cards for more options. There's no annual fee, but be aware the card adds foreign transaction fees, so it's not a good choice for traveling outside the U.S. Earns 1.5% cash back on all purchases $0 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account 16.99% - 26.99% Variable Good to Excellent The Bank of America® Unlimited Cash Rewards Credit Card for Students offers three compelling features: consistent cash back rewards on all purchases, a lengthy 0% introductory APR, and a welcome bonus that provides a sizable return compared to the spending requirement. Students who love to travel — especially overseas — should have a look at the Bank of America® Travel Rewards Credit Card for Students. Just like the non-student version, it comes with a welcome bonus of 25,000 online bonus points after spending $1,000 in purchases in the first 90 days from account opening (redeemed as a $250 statement credit toward travel and dining purchases). Each point is worth 1 cent when you redeem for statement credits toward travel purchases, including airfare, hotels, rental cars, campgrounds, and even certain tourist attractions. This is a good card if you don't want to mess with complicated award charts or blackout dates, and its earning structure is simple — 1.5 points per dollar on all purchases, with no categories to keep track of. You'll also get a 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account (then a 17.99% - 27.99% Variable APR) and no foreign transaction fees when you use the card on your adventures abroad. Earn unlimited 1.5 points per dollar on purchases. $0 0% intro APR for your first 18 billing cycles for purchases, and for any balance transfers made within the first 60 days of opening your account 17.99% - 27.99% Variable 25,000 online bonus points Good to Excellent A good student credit card should offer rewards and useful benefits to those with limited credit history and the Bank of America® Travel Rewards Credit Card for Students hits several of those notes. However, while the card is marketed to students, those without established credit may have difficulty getting approved. With one of the longest zero-interest credit card offers around (even among non-student credit cards), the BankAmericard® Credit Card for Students could be exactly what you need if you're carrying high-interest credit card debt or have large purchases coming up — like school expenses — you can't pay off all at once. New cardholders receive a 0% intro APR for the first 21 billing cycles on purchases and balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening (then a 15.74% - 25.74% Variable APR). However, because the BankAmericard® for Students doesn't come with a welcome bonus or earn rewards for spending, it's not a good choice unless you're specifically looking for an ultra-long intro APR. Doesn't earn rewards, but there's an intro APR offer $0 0% intro APR for the first 21 billing cycles on purchases and balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening 15.74% - 25.74% Variable Good to Excellent With an industry-leading introductory 0% APR period and no annual fee, the BankAmericard® Credit Card for Students presents a strong opportunity to do just that. However, while the card is marketed to students, it's not a great fit for those without an established credit history. The Discover it® Student Cash Back can put a lot of cash in your pocket — if you're willing to do a little work for it. When you activate the bonus, you'll earn 5% cash back in categories that rotate each quarter on up to $1,500 in combined spending (then 1%), and 1% back on everything else. Discover's 5% cash-back categories often include popular merchants or types of purchases, like grocery stores, restaurants, and Amazon (from July 1 to September 30, 2024, earn 5% cash back at Walmart and grocery stores on up to $1,500 in purchases after enrollment, then 1%). While the card doesn't offer a welcome bonus, Discover will match all the cash back you've earned at the end of your first year. You'll also receive a $50 statement credit if you refer a friend and they're approved.  With the Discover it® Student Cash Back, you'll get a 0% intro APR for six months on purchases (then a 18.24% - 27.24% Variable APR), and if you accidentally slip up and make a late payment, there's no fee the first time it happens (afterward, it's up to $41). Earn 5% cash back on everyday purchases at different places you shop each quarter like grocery stores, restaurants, gas stations, and more, up to the quarterly maximum when you activate. Earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases automatically. $0 0% intro APR for six months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable Earn Unlimited Cashback Match™ Fair/New to Credit The Discover it® Student Cash Back is a great choice if you're a student with limited credit history and want to earn a strong rate of cash back on your everyday spending without paying an annual fee. The Discover it® Student Chrome is almost identical to the Discover it® Student Cash Back, with one key difference. Instead of offering 5% rotating quarterly cash-back categories, you'll earn 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined spending each quarter (then 1%). All other purchases earn a flat 1% cash back. The spending cap on the 2% categories is quite low ($1,000 per quarter, or about $333 a month), but if you're able to maximize this bonus, it's worth an extra $20 per quarter. Students who don't spend a lot in these categories or who want better rewards across the board will likely do better with a different card. Earn 2% cash back at Gas Stations and Restaurants on up to $1,000 in combined purchases each quarter, automatically. Plus earn unlimited 1% cash back on all other purchases. $0 0% intro APR for six months on purchases 18.24% - 27.24% Variable Earn Unlimited Cashback Match™ Fair/New to Credit The Discover it® Student Chrome is a great starter credit card to help you build credit while learning how to responsibly use a credit card. It's worth noting that this student credit card is nearly identical to the regular Discover it® Chrome in almost every way, with the addition of a few student-specific perks. While not technically a student credit card, the Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card (card issued by WebBank) is a good option for young adults with very limited or no credit history. The issuer doesn't just rely on traditional credit scores for approval; it also considers other factors such as banking history, income, and savings. What's more, activity on this card is reported to all three major credit bureaus, which can give your credit score a boost over the long term if you pay off your balance on a consistent basis. This is another card that gives cardholders an incentive to pay on time. Starting out, you'll earn 1% cash back on eligible purchases, but after making six on-time payments, you'll earn 1.25% back. After 12 months of paying on time, you'll get a bump up to 1.5% back. You'll also have the opportunity to earn bonus cash back (up to 10%) at select merchants. Another bonus: The Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card doesn't charge any fees, including for foreign transactions or late payments. However, the card doesn't offer balance transfers or cash advances like most others do.  Earn up to 1.5% cash back on eligible purchases after making 12 on-time monthly payments. Earn 1% cash back on eligible purchases right away. Earn 2% - 10% cash back at select merchants. $0 N/A 18.24% - 32.24% Variable N/A No credit and limited credit to Excellent If you have a limited credit history, the Petal® 2 "Cash Back, No Fees" Visa® Credit Card, issued by WebBank, may be easier to qualify for. The card doesn't charge any fees and offers between 1.00% - 1.50% cash back on everyday purchases, making it one of the best credit cards for bad credit. If you've already got a good credit score, though, you should consider a different rewards credit card with better earnings and benefits. Students who don't have a Social Security Number or other federal identification often struggle to enter the U.S. banking system and begin building credit and other foundations for financial success.  The Firstcard® Credit Builder Card with Cashback for College Students is designed to sidestep that obstacle. Firstcard offers a joint bank account and secured credit card product that doesn't require a credit pull for approval.  Your credit "limit" on the Firstcard is equal to the amount of money you've deposited into your Firstcard bank account, which is used as security against your Firstcard charges. Firstcard reports payment activity to major credit bureaus every month, which helps cardholders begin building credit.  Firstcard members earn interest on the money kept in the bank account. Base-tier members earn 1.25% annual percentage yield (APY), and members pay $2.99 per month for Firstcard+ membership earn 4.25% APY. Members also earn up to 10% cash back on every purchase, with additional bonuses available from select retail partners.  Firstcard does not charge for the usual card fees (unless you sign up for Firstcard+): No account management fees, annual fees, no interest, no late fees, no overdraft fees, no setup fees, and no foreign transaction fees. Earn up to 4.25% APY and build your credit score without worrying about overspending. No credit checks and no credit history required to open the card. Firstcard users are eligible to apply for Firstcard's $10,000 Student Scholarship.The application deadline is September 30. $0 N/A 0% N/A No credit history Student credit cards help build credit history, offer rewards on everyday purchases, and provide useful financial tools and perks designed for students. They often have no annual fees and may include features like cash back on purchases and access to credit score monitoring. Students can build credit by using their credit card responsibly, making payments on time, keeping balances low, and avoiding unnecessary debt. Consistent, responsible use of a student credit card can help establish a positive credit history. Potential downsides include high-interest rates if a balance is carried, the temptation to overspend, and the risk of accumulating debt. It's crucial for students to use their credit cards wisely and understand the terms and conditions. Yes, student credit cards can be used for both educational and non-educational expenses. They are versatile financial tools that can help manage everyday expenses and build credit simultaneously. Look for a rewards program that offers cash back or points on categories relevant to students, such as dining, groceries, and online shopping. Also, consider if the card offers bonuses for good grades or other student-specific benefits. College students should consider opening a student credit card as a great first step in building a solid credit history that will help them in years to come. As long as you use it responsibly, avoid carrying a balance, and make your payments on time, having a student credit card can help improve your credit score and make it easier to qualify for other types of credit, like loans and mortgages, in the future. Yes, there are credit cards for students with no credit that are designed for those who have a limited or no credit history. These are typically easier to get approved for than regular credit cards. Other options include secured credit cards, which require a cash deposit, and starter credit cards, which are also geared toward folks who are building or rebuilding their credit. The best student credit card for you depends on your spending habits and the types of rewards you like to earn. For example, if you spend a lot on dining, groceries, and entertainment, a card like the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card would be a great fit because it offers bonus rewards in those categories. If you prefer a more hands-off approach, flat-rate rewards cards such as the Capital One Quicksilver Student Cash Rewards Credit Card or Bank of America® Travel Rewards Credit Card for Students could be a better pick. You should also consider a card's extra benefits, like no foreign transaction fees (if you travel abroad a lot) and purchase protections (if you spend on big-ticket items) before you decide on the right one for your wallet. Yes, you can get a student credit card in high school if you're at least 18 years old. If you're underage, you could still become an authorized user on a parent or guardian's credit card until you're old enough to apply for your own. After you graduate, your student credit card may get converted by your bank into an equivalent, regular credit card. For instance, Discover it® Student Cash Back cardholders will have the Discover it® Cash Back card instead, but still earn the same rewards. You might also have the opportunity to upgrade your student card to a regular version that earns better rewards, depending on your issuer and credit profile. We looked at several factors when evaluating the top student credit cards that are currently available to new applicants: Learn more about how we rate credit cards at Business Insider. ***Terms, conditions, and exclusions apply.  Refer to your Guide to Benefits for more details. Travel Accident Insurance is not guaranteed, it depends on the level of benefits you get at application.For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. ***Terms, conditions, and exclusions apply.  Refer to your Guide to Benefits for more details. Travel Accident Insurance is not guaranteed, it depends on the level of benefits you get at application. For Capital One products listed on this page, some of the benefits may be provided by Visa® or Mastercard® and may vary by product. See the respective Guide to Benefits for details, as terms and exclusions apply. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. Jump to