UGC NET 2023 answer key release date and time: The National Testing Agency (NTA) is likely to release UGC NET June 2023 answer key 2023 today, July 6, 2023. All those who are eagerly waiting for the provisional answer keys of the National Eligibility Test 2023 will be able to download it from the official website of UGC NET - ugcnet.nta.nic.in, once released.  



 According to the latest report, the answer keys were to release on June 5, 2023. Due to technical issues, the UGC NET June 2023 answer keys could not be uploaded. It is expected that the testing agency will release the provisional answer keys today. Candidates have been advised to keep a eye on the official website for latest updates.   The information about the release of the answer keys was shared by the UGC Cheif M Jagadesh Kumar through his social Twitter handle. He said in a tweet that the NTA will be releasing the answer key on July 5 or 6 and expects to publish the results in the second week of August.   ALSO READ | When will UGC NET 2023 provisional answer key be released? It is expected that the UGC NET 2023 answer keys will be released today, June 6, 2023. However, the release time of the answer key is yet not confirmed. All the candidates are advised to keep checking the official website for the latest updates. Once the answer key is released, the direct link to the answer keys will be shared with the students.  In order to download UGC NET answer key 2023, candidates are required to log in with their registration number and password at ugcnet.nta.nic.in. The simple steps to download the answer keys are given below.  After the release of the UGC NET 2023 answer key, the National Testing Agency (NTA) will allow the candidates to raise objections against the answer key in a prescribed format. The final answer key will be prepared based on the challenges received from the candidates. The result will be prepared on the basis of the final answer key.  To qualify for the UGC NET 2023 June, a candidate belonging to the general category is required to secure 40% marks in each subject while the candidate belonging to the reserved category will have to secure 35% in each subject.  ALSO READ | UGC NET 2023 answer key on July 5th or 6, results in second week of August, says UGC Cheif  Top News Udaipur stabbing case: Mayawati reacts to bulldozer action against student, says 'court must...' Assamese musician Baba's song 'Hold Me Tonight' touches No 1 spot on iTunes US pop charts U19 Women's T20 WC 2025: ICC reveals groups and fixtures for tournament, check India's schedule here Related Higher-studies News Delhi University Admission 2024: Round 1 CSAS allocation merit list released; direct link here UPTAC round 2 seat allotment result out at uptac.admissions.nic.in, what's next? NEET UG 2024 Counselling: MCC to start choice filling process for round 1 today, check details GATE 2025: Registration process to start from August 24 at gate2025.iitr.ac.in- how to apply, fee UGC NET 2024 city intimation slips out for August 28-September 4 exams: Check how to download Latest News 'I'm much better looking than her': Trump after Time Magazine features Kamala Harris on its cover  West Bengal: Six dead after SUV crashes into truck in Malda  Kolkata rape-murder case: TMC MP summoned after his demand of Commissioner's interrogation  U19 Women's T20 WC 2025: ICC reveals groups and fixtures for tournament, check India's schedule here  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Aaj Ka Rashifal, 18 August 2024: Know from Acharya Indu Prakash ji what your stars are saying today, daily horoscope Panchag and auspicious time    Troubled with cramps problem? Know treatment from Swami Ramdev
    Muqabla: The mystery of the Nirbhaya case deepens. Is there a big name behind the incident?    Coffee Par Kurukshetra: Why were the election dates not been announced in Maharashtra and Jharkhand?    Kanpur Train Accident: 20 coaches of Sabarmati Express derailed near Kanpur, no injuries reported    Odisha: Nine killed, 12 injured in separate lightning strike incidents, CM announces ex gratia   Kolkata doctor-rape murder case LIVE: Amit Malviya targets Mamata on cancellation of football match   Breaking News, August 18 | LIVE UPDATES   Kolkata rape-murder case: MHA seeks report from states every 2 hours on doctors' protest    Kolkata rape case: CBI summons former RG Kar Hospital principal Dr Sandip Ghosh for probe today   Jaishankar arrives in Kuwait, in a first visit after 45 Indians killed in Mangaf fire tragedy   'Creepy man' boarded Delta flight without ticket and valid boarding pass | What happened next?   Thai king endorses Shinawatra as Prime Minister, PM Modi congratulates his 'youngest' counterpart   Swiss flight with over 300 on board makes emergency landing in Kazakhstan due to THIS reason   Air India cabin crew member assaulted at London hotel, airline reacts   Assamese musician Baba's song 'Hold Me Tonight' touches No 1 spot on iTunes US pop charts   Before Stree 2, THESE 10 Bollywood sequels shattered box office records    Raksha Bandhan 2024: Bhumi Pednekar's sister reveals how they deal when people think they are twins   Salman Khan, Bhagyashree-starrer Maine Pyar Kiya to re-release in cinemas after 35 years, here's why   Stree 2 vs Vedaa vs Khel Khel Mein: Who won box office battle on first Saturday?   U19 Women's T20 WC 2025: ICC reveals groups and fixtures for tournament, check India's schedule here   Vinesh Phogat drops hint on potential comeback: 'Maybe, I could return to wrestling'   India A women vs Australia A women live score: Indian team hand 171-run drubbing to Aussies   MCG to host 150th anniversary Test in 2027, Cricket Australia reveals venue allocations    India TV Sports Wrap on August 18: Today's top 10 trending news stories   This BSNL plan offers 105 days of unlimited calling and 2GB daily data   Elon Musk’s X abruptly ends business in Brazil: Know-why?   Oppo F27 India price, launch date leaked: Here's when feature-packed smartphone set for debut   iPhone 15 gets Rs 12,000 discount on Amazon, now available at significantly lower price   BSNL 4G may lag in quality say experts: Here why?    Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   'India needs to create 148 million additional jobs by 2030': IMF's Gita Gopinath   Union Cabinet gives nod to two new airport, three metro rail projects across India | DETAILS   Saraswati Saree Depot IPO allotment: Key details and step-by-step guide to check status   Sensex soars 805 points to 79,911, Nifty rises 252 points to 24,395 in early trade   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study   How can PCOS/PCOD impact female fertility? Know from expert   5 important things men should do in their 20s, 30s and 40s to lower cancer risk  