Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Check out the companies making headlines in the premarket. Nvidia — The chipmaker popped 7% after reporting another blowout quarter that topped Wall Street's estimates. Nvidia also offered optimistic guidance, saying sales will jump 170% during the current period as demand for artificial intelligence chips continues to gain steam. Adjusted earnings came in at $2.70 per share, ahead of the $2.09 estimate expected from analysts polled by Refinitiv. Nvidia reported revenue of $13.51 billion, topping the $11.22 billion expected by Wall Street. Taiwan Semiconductor, AMD, Marvell Technology — Semiconductor stocks tied to artificial intelligence and Nvidia rose in the premarket on the back of another strong earnings report from the AI chip giant. Advanced Micro Devices, Marvell Technology and U.S.-listed shares of Taiwan Semiconductor rose 2.3%, 4.2% and 3.1%, respectively. Broadcom and Super Micro Computer added 3.4% and 8.5%, respectively. Boeing — Shares lost about 2% before the bell after Boeing revealed a new manufacturing defect involving supplier Spirit AeroSystems that will delay 737 Max deliveries. The company said fastener holes were improperly drilled on some of the model's aft pressure bulkheads. Spirit AeroSystems shed more than 6%. Splunk — The stock gained 13.6% after Splunk reported an earnings beat. The cloud services provider earned 71 cents per share, after adjustments, on $910.6 million in revenue for the second quarter. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had expected Splunk would earn 46 cents per share and $889.3 million in revenue. The company also raised its guidance. Snowflake — Shares of the cloud company jumped 3.5% on the back of its earnings report. Snowflake posted 22 cents in adjusted earnings per share on $674 million in revenue. Analysts polled by Refinitiv had estimated 10 cents in earnings per share on $662 million in revenue. Dollar Tree — The discount retailer's stock dipped more than 6% in premarket trading after Dollar Tree's third-quarter earnings guidance came in well below expectations. The company said it expected between 94 cents and $1.04 in earnings per share for the current quarter, while analysts were looking for $1.27 per share, according to Refinitiv. Dollar Tree's second-quarter results did top estimates on the top and bottom lines. Guess — Shares surged more than 16% after the apparel company on Wednesday reported adjusted earnings of 72 cents per share on revenue of $664.5 million in the second quarter. CEO Carlos Alberini said, "Our international businesses continued to perform strongly with robust revenue growth," and cited "strong gross margin" and "effective cost management" in the quarter. Autodesk — Shares rose more than 6% after the software company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly results and third-quarter guidance. Autodesk reported adjusted earnings of $1.91 per share on $1.35 billion in revenue. That came in ahead of the EPS of $1.73 on revenue of $1.32 billion expected by analysts polled by Refinitiv. Petco Health and Wellness — The pet-care retailer tumbled more than 10% after reporting second-quarter earnings before the bell. Adjusted earnings per share of 6 cents was in line with expectations and revenue slightly beat estimates, per StreetAccount. However, Petco's full-year guidance for adjusted EPS and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell short of consensus estimates. — CNBC's Hakyung Kim, Pia Singh, Sarah Min, Michelle Fox and Jesse Pound contributed reporting. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by