MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the top auto loan providers Getting the best auto loan rates can save you thousands of dollars over the course of your loan. We at the MarketWatch Guides team researched the top car loan providers to bring you the best options for financing or refinancing your vehicle. We compared interest rates, industry ratings and customer reviews to help you make an informed decision.  According to our research, AutoPay currently offers the best auto loan rate for new car purchases, with annual percentage rates (APR) as low as 4.67% for new vehicles. PenFed Credit Union, Auto Approve, Consumer’s Credit Union, Auto Credit Express and iLending also offer some of the most competitive rates available. The table below highlights the lenders offering the best car loan rates. To allow for an easy comparison of top lenders’ best rates and terms, we’ve broken down each provider’s lowest rate, loan amounts and term lengths available: *Starting APRs for the providers in the table above are only available for borrowers with excellent credit. **Rates are for refinancing In our review of lenders, we found that the best auto loan companies are Autopay, PenFed Credit Union, Auto Approve, Consumers Credit Union, Auto Credit Express and iLending.However, to find the best car loan for you, we encourage you to shop around and compare auto loan rates from various lenders — including banks, credit unions, dealerships and online providers.  With that in mind, below we review several lenders offering the best rates, covering each of the top auto financing companies that made our list in detail.  AutoPay is an online lending marketplace that offers auto loans, lease-buyout loans and auto loan refinancing. AutoPay also gives you greater flexibility with loan terms, which range from 24 to 96 months. This means you might be able to pay your auto loan off quickly with a shorter term. Based on our research, borrowers with good credit can find APRs as low as 4.67% for new and used vehicles from AutoPay’s network of lenders. People with bad credit may still qualify for financing since the company’s minimum credit score for applicants is 560. Offers prequalification with a soft credit check Low APRs for borrowers with good credit No application fees or prepayment penalties Offers guaranteed asset protection (gap insurance) Loan funding can take a while AutoPay has a solid reputation in the lending industry. The company holds an A+ rating and accreditation from the Better Business Bureau (BBB) and an 3.2-star rating on Trustpilot from over 560 customer reviews. Positive AutoPay reviews center on the company’s excellent customer service, knowledgeable staff members and fast, transparent process. While in the minority, negative reviews mention high interest rates and issues with paperwork that led to car loans or refinancing not being approved. Pentagon Federal Credit Union (or PenFed) offers competitive auto loan rates for both new and used vehicles. PenFed used to be primarily for military members and their families but is now open to the general public. PenFed’s starting APRs for used vehicles are relatively low at 6.49%. but to be eligible for those rates, you’ll need to have good credit and use PenFed’s car-buying service. PenFed members get access to special deals, such as cash-back promotions, for shopping at partner dealerships. However, qualifying for a PenFed auto loan might be hard for some. The credit union only accepts borrowers with credit scores of 650 or higher. In addition, PenFed has a $29 fee for late loan payments. Low auto loan rates Discounts through car-buying service Debt protection available for a fee Available only to members High late payment fee Requires fair or better credit PenFed isn’t accredited by the BBB but is rated A+ by the organization. The credit union has an impressive average rating of 4.2 out of 5.0 stars on Trustpilot based on more than 1,480 customer reviews. Customer ratings are considerably lower on the BBB website, however, where more than 270 reviewers give PenFed an average of 1.2 out of 5.0 stars. Positive reviews consistently mention a smooth and easy loan application process and low rates. Customers reporting negative experiences tend to mention slow processing times for loan applications. Auto Approve is a loan aggregator for vehicle refinancing and lease buyouts. The company works with a vast network of lenders, including banks, credit unions and finance companies, to find you the best auto refinancing rates. Auto Approve can be a good choice if you’re looking to refinance but aren’t sure where to start. Once you apply for a refinance loan with the company, your application is assigned to one of its loan consultants. That person guides you through the entire refinance process, pointing you to the best loan options available and then submitting your application to the lender you choose. Auto Approve has a minimum credit score of 600, which means anyone with poor credit won’t be eligible for a loan. Assigns a dedicated consultant to find the best loan High customer review scores Low rates for customers with good credit scores Available to borrowers with low credit scores Simple process Only offers auto loan refinancing and lease buyouts, not new auto loans Some complaints about poor communication Auto Approve is accredited by the BBB and holds an A+ rating from the organization. In addition to a nearly 4.38-star rating from more than 1,025 customer reviews on the BBB’s site, the company has an average of 4.6 stars across more than 9,300 reviews on Trustpilot. There are many positive reviews of the company, and they typically cite Auto Approve’s smooth and easy process. Customers who leave negative reviews tend to mention unexpected fees. Illinois-based Consumers Credit Union is open to national membership. The lender’s rates are typical for the industry, but its lowest starting APR applies to vehicles made as far back as 2021. That means borrowers who want to refinance cars made in recent model years may get better rates with Consumers than they would getting used car loans with a different provider. The credit union offers a wide range of terms and loan amounts. Its best auto-loan rates start at 5.54% for cars made in or after 2021. Other starting APRs include 5.79% for cars made from 2017 to 2020, and 7.04% for cars made in 2016 or older. As long as you qualify, you can borrow nearly any amount, with term lengths of up to 84 months. While Consumers Credit Union is a membership-based organization and not a bank, anyone can become a member. All you need to do is provide a Social Security number or a tax identification number and pay a $5 nonrefundable fee to the Consumers Cooperative Association. Up to 100% financing No maximum or minimum loan amounts Very flexible lending terms Available only to members Few branches Must use autopay to get the lowest rates Consumers Credit Union has a relatively strong standing in the industry. It’s accredited by the BBB and holds an A+ rating from the organization. There aren’t many Consumers Credit Union customer reviews online. However, the positive reviews we found praise the lender’s good customer experience, consistently great rates and low fees. Customers are also pleased to be part of a member-owned organization instead of a bank. That said, people who report a negative experience with Consumers Credit Union mention technical issues and delays with applications. Auto Credit Express is a loan aggregator that specializes in bad-credit auto loans, matching consumers with lenders that meet their needs. We awarded the company with the title “Best Purchase Loan for Bad Credit.” The company provides extensive tools and blog posts on its website to help you better understand credit and the car loan process. Once you apply for an auto loan, you’ll be able to compare offers from different lenders at the same time. Auto Credit Express could be a great option for people who have very poor credit and can’t get loan approval from other providers. Its minimum credit score requirement is only 400, which opens eligibility to almost anyone. Open to borrowers with bad credit Offers discounts to military members A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau (BBB) Not a direct loan provider Applying brings you many lender calls Auto Credit Express is accredited by the BBB and holds an A+ rating from the organization. Despite this rating, customers on the BBB’s site only give Auto Credit Express a 1.0-star rating. However, this is based on only a small number of reviews. Trustpilot reviews are much more positive, as more than 3,700 consumers give the company an average of 4.5 stars. Trustpilot also rates the company as “Excellent.” Positive reviews for Auto Credit Express mention excellent communication and customer service, while the few negative reviews describe a total lack of communication. A refinance auto-loan specialist, iLending is a viable option for borrowers looking to get lower interest rates and better terms for their vehicles. The company works with a network of lenders and financial institutions. Its minimum credit score requirement is just 510, which is why we gave it the title “Best Refinance Loan for Bad Credit.” Since iLending functions as an auto refinance marketplace, your loan rate and term will depend on which lender you choose to refinance with. ILending doesn’t provide purchase loans for new or used vehicles. Low APRs for borrowers with good credit Low minimum credit score makes more people eligible Strong customer service reputation Doesn’t offer purchase loans iLending’s reputation on customer service is positive overall. The company has an A+ rating and accreditation from the BBB, along with a 4.8-star rating average from almost 900 customer reviews. Similarly positive reviews can be found on Trustpilot, where iLending has a 4.7-star rating average from over 1,400 reviews. The majority of positive reviews on both sites mention the ease of iLending’s approval process, great customer service and low auto-refinance rates. While they’re in the minority, negative reviews of iLending do exist. The company has had 63 BBB complaints from consumers closed within the last three years. This is a small number compared to the amount of business the loan aggregator does. The few complaints we found discuss problems with higher interest rates and higher loan amounts than the borrowers previously had. Specializing in auto refinance, cash out and lease buyout loans, Gravity Lending offers a competitive starting APR of 4.99%. Working with a network of lenders, the company offers borrowers flexible loan terms and loan amounts to fit their needs. Customers can prequalify online and sign all their paperwork digitally, making Gravity’s lending process very simple. The company also has physical locations for those who prefer a more traditional experience working with an agent. Offers flexible loan terms Offers a referral bonus Strong ratings from customers on Trustpilot and the BBB No calculator tool or estimated interest rates Doesn’t disclose max interest rates from lenders Gravity Lending has some of the best customer review scores in the lending space. It has a perfect 5.0-star score on Trustpilot as well as a 4.96 out of 5.0 from customers on the BBB site, along with an A+ with accreditation. Finding the best auto loan rates requires some background knowledge. There are many factors that determine the best auto loan rates you can get and several methods that can help you get the lowest rates possible.  Below, we’ll discuss what current auto loan rates are, what is considered a good interest rate and the difference between an interest rate and APR. We’ll also go over the factors that lenders consider when determining your auto loan rates. There are many methods you can use to find the best auto loan rates for your situation. In the sections below, we’ll outline a few ways to lower your interest rates for new and used car financing. Your credit score is the primary factor that determines the best auto loan rates you’ll find from a lender. Even if you’re only able to improve your score by 30 to 40 points, the difference could be a huge help in getting lower interest rates. Say you were planning to finance a used car and your credit score improved from 650 to 680. Your rates could improve from about 12% to around 8%, allowing you to save thousands of dollars on a used vehicle. There are many ways to improve your credit score, and below are seven steps you can take to get started and lower your auto loan rates. If your credit score is less than desirable — but you need a car soon — getting a co-signer on your loan could make it easier to find lower rates. If a family member or friend has excellent credit, you could gain access to some of the best auto loan rates. Read over your loan terms carefully to make sure you can cover monthly costs. If you make late payments or default on the loan, it will affect both your and your co-signer’s credit scores. To find the most competitive rates available, compare auto loan offers from various lenders when making a decision on who to borrow money from. Technological advancements have made comparing rates online a key part of this process. There are many online lending marketplaces that allow you to compare multiple providers at once, helping you find the best deal. On top of this, using an auto loan calculator lets you compare the total cost of each financing option. When comparing auto loan rates, there’s more to keep in mind than just APRs when you’re looking for the best rates possible. To see the big picture, do the math and look at the total cost of your loan over its lifetime — and not just the APR or the monthly payment.  * The calculators used on this website are being provided for educational purposes only. Data will not be collected or stored. The results are estimates based on information you provide and may not reflect actual pricing of your quote. To get the lowest possible rate on a car loan, consider the following factors when shopping: An interest rate is the annual percentage of the loan that the lender charges you on top of the money you’re borrowing. Let’s say you have a total loan of $60,000 that you have to pay back across 48 months. Every month would be $1,250, which would make every year $15,000 that you’d pay back. If you have an interest rate of 5.0% on this loan, 5.0% of $15,000 is $750. So every year, you’d pay back $15,750 on your loan. Your loan’s APR (annual percentage rate) is your interest rate plus all loan fees. This is often the auto loan rate you’ll see advertised across lender and broker sites. Even a small difference in your APR could save you hundreds or thousands over the life of the loan. The loan term or term length refers to how long you have to repay your auto loan. The longer the loan term, the lower your monthly payments will likely be. However, you’ll pay significantly more in interest overall than you would with a shorter term. Some lenders offer rate discounts on their car loan products. One common discount is a reduction of your APR when you sign up for automatic payments from your bank account or credit card. Based on our research, providers usually offer to take between 0.25% and 0.5% off of your APR for signing up for autopay. Lenders often charge fees for missed or late car payments. Some auto lenders also charge borrowers prepayment penalties for paying loans off early because it reduces the amount of interest the lender collects. These fees and penalties are in the fine print of a loan contract, so read it carefully before agreeing to a loan. Generally speaking, a good auto loan interest rate is anything below 4.0%. However, what a good interest rate is for you depends heavily on your credit score and the average rates within your credit band. It’s best to look for rates below these averages when gauging what lenders to choose. Based on a study conducted by our research team, the average interest rates across credit profiles are 6.63% for new car loans and 11.38% for used car loans. The table below shows the average auto loan rates (full APRs) for new and used cars based on buyers’ credit scores, according to Experian’s State of the Automotive Finance Market Q4 2023 report. Much like car insurance companies, lenders determine auto loan rates based on information about you and your vehicle. While most lenders use many of the same factors to determine rates, some may weigh specific factors such as your credit history differently than others. There are many factors that go into auto loan rates. Below are some of these factors in detail:  Although there are some small differences in how you apply for an auto loan depending on the lender, the process is mostly consistent. Here are our best steps to apply for an auto loan: In this article, along with providing helpful purchasing tips for those who are looking for the best auto financing options, we reviewed the top six lenders offering the lowest auto loan rates: Below are some frequently asked questions about the best auto loan rates, lenders and financing: According to our research, AutoPay, Auto Approve, PenFed Credit Union and Consumers Credit Union have the best auto loan rates for vehicle purchases and refinancing. However, the best choice for you depends on your unique financial situation. The lowest auto loan rates offered currently are 4.67% for purchase loans and for auto refinance loans — both from AutoPay. However, these rates are only available for those with excellent credit and a 36-month loan term.  The bank that can offer you the lowest interest rate for a car will vary based on factors such as your location, your credit history and your down payment amount. To get an idea of the rates you might get from a bank, you may be able to get prequalified on that lender’s website. Consumers Credit Union and PenFed Credit Union are known to have low auto loan rates, especially for people with good credit. Compare APRs from each provider to find your most competitive auto financing rates. We found iLending to be one of the best companies if you need to refinance a car loan. This online marketplace offers some of the lowest rates for refinancing auto loans. We also recommend it to those who have lower credit scores. Based on our research, an APR of less than 4.0% is good for a 72-month car loan. To access the best auto loan rates, you’ll usually need a 36-month car loan. Because consumers rely on us to provide objective and accurate information, we created a comprehensive rating system to formulate our rankings of the best auto loan companies.  We collected data on dozens of loan providers to grade the companies on a wide range of ranking factors. The end result was an overall rating for each provider, with the companies that scored the most points topping the list.  Learn more about our methodology and editorial guidelines. Our credentials: *Rates as of 7/14/23
**Data accurate at time of publication. If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Daniel Robinson is a writer based in Greenville, N.C. with expertise in auto insurance, loans, warranty options and more. Away from the keyboard, Daniel spends time with his wife and son, plays guitar and obsesses over the Beatles and Baltimore Orioles. RaShawn Mitchner is a MarketWatch Guides team senior editor covering personal finance topics and insurance. She’s spent over a decade writing and editing articles about how to save money on travel, entertainment, household services and more. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.