
By Amy Poole, Nikola Petrovski
 Updated on Aug 18, 2023 10:36 AM EDT 4 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn more › If you’ve noticed your car is beginning to develop rust, is in need of a body repair, or perhaps you feel a draft while driving, don’t contact your local garage just yet. There’s a quick and effective way to resolve this yourself without spending a lot of money. Automotive body seam sealers are an inexpensive solution to these issues, and they come in a variety of options. For two figures, you can completely restore your vehicle and improve its longevity. Check out the best automotive seam sealers to protect your vehicle. Sealants come in a nozzle, so you can specifically apply the product to narrow areas, making them great for a touch-up job. Most sealants are transparent when they dry, so there’s no need to paint over the surface. This makes them a popular option for a quick-fix or sealing small cracks that are allowing air and water to enter. A brushable seam sealer presents itself in a tin, which you apply to the surface using a paintbrush. This is an ideal option if you wish to target a large surface area without the hassle of applying a narrow tube across the entire area. As brushable sealers are designed for large areas—which is great as a body filler—they make a smooth, quick-drying base, making the surface paintable. Our top recommendation is the Eastwood Brushable Seam Sealer. This reputable brand has experience in creating products to prevent rust from forming. Alternatively, for a budget-friendly option, choose the 3M Dynatron Auto Seam Sealer. It’s compatible with a range of surfaces and easy to work with. One of the biggest features of this type of product is that they’re water- and corrosion-proof. This creates a protective layer on your vehicle—whether that’s on the interior or exterior—to prevent weather from eroding your car.  Thanks to the versatility that seam sealers offer, most are compatible with numerous materials,  including metal, chrome, and plastic. This feature allows you to use the product on a range of surfaces in your vehicle, from under the hood to plastic components on the dashboard. As sealers are designed for a range of surfaces and components in your vehicle, one of their key features is not shrinking the materials. Otherwise, the surfaces would pull apart once the sealer has dried. Plus, the sealer won’t crack once the application is complete. A: We recommend monitoring your vehicle’s rust patches. If you notice them forming, be proactive and purchase a seam sealer. Alternatively, replacements every five years or so should keep this issue from arising. A: No. You can’t paint over silicone, which will leave your vehicle looking unpresentable. More importantly, it takes a lot of preparation before applying the product and doesn’t provide a long-lasting effect.  A: Most seam sealers have similar qualities, though they’re not all the same. Some leave a smoother surface, while others need more preparation before painting on them.  The chronicle of car culture, delivered to your inbox. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. © 2024 Recurrent Ventures. All Rights Reserved. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Some benefits of our Car Shopping program may not be available in your area. Please see terms for details. 