Schmidt Automotive has announced a $7.7 million expansion of its Auburn operation. (City of Auburn) Auburn’s Schmidt Automotive today announced a $7.7 million expansion, bringing new automated equipment to its automotive powertrain operation. The company said the expansion will create another 25 jobs over the next two years at the plant, located on Innovation Drive. A member of the MAT Foundry Group, Schmidt Automotive first came to Auburn in 2015. The company makes automotive powertrain components and assemblies, specializing in differentials,  transmission shafts, housings, module and system assemblies. Joerg Wilmink, general manager with Schmidt Automotive, said the project will enable the company to establish new product lines, and diversify its products and customer base. “Our region is known for having the resources needed for technology-based, advanced manufacturing companies to be successful, and Schmidt Automotive is a shining example of that,” Auburn Mayor Ron  Anders said in a statement. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices