Feb 2, 2023 BT Group plc (“BT Group”) hereby announces that Maggie Chan Jones and Ruth Cairnie will be joining its board as independent non-executive directors.  Maggie joins the board effective 1 March 2023 and as a member of the Nominations and Digital Impact & Sustainability Committees.  Ruth joins the board effective 6 April 2023 and as a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Iain Conn will step down from the board as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the 2023 Annual General Meeting in July after serving on the board for 9 years, Ruth will succeed Iain as Senior Independent Director.  Adam Crozier, BT Group’s Chairman said “Iain has been a great asset to the board in his role as Senior Independent Director and I would like to thank him wholeheartedly for his significant contribution to BT Group and personal support to me”. As previously announced, Sir Ian Cheshire will also step down from the board as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the 2023 Annual General Meeting in July and Ruth will succeed Ian as Remuneration Committee Chair. Ruth has extensive experience gained from a broad range of executive and non-executive roles at leading industrial companies, both in the UK and Internationally. Ruth was formerly Executive Vice President for Group Strategy & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell plc. She is currently Chair of Babcock International Group plc and Senior Independent Director of Associated British Foods plc. Maggie is the founder and CEO of Tenshey, a tech-enabled executive coaching company that focuses on elevating more women and underrepresented leaders in leadership roles and the boardroom. This followed a highly successful career in marketing at several of the world's largest technology companies, including Microsoft and SAP. In welcoming both to the board, BT Group’s Chairman Adam Crozier said “The board is delighted to welcome Maggie and Ruth, both of whom will add significant breadth of experience and diversity of thought to the board. Both will be key in  support of the important transformation agenda ahead for BT Group”. Maggie commented “I’m honoured to join the board of BT Group, whose purpose to connect for good is essential to the consumers, businesses, and communities it serves. I look forward to applying my experiences in business transformation, marketing, and diversity and inclusion to help BT accelerate its ambition and lead the way to a bright and sustainable future”. Ruth added “I’m delighted to be joining the BT board and supporting the company in its ambitious transformation. Successful delivery of BT’s mission will strongly support the transition of economies and societies to a more digitally enabled future and its role is particularly critical for the UK.” There are no additional matters that would require disclosure in respect of Maggie Chan Jones and Ruth Cairnie or pursuant to 9.6.13R of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority. Aug 16, 2024 Aug 16, 2024 Aug 16, 2024 Aug 16, 2024 Aug 15, 2024 Sign up to receive TelecomTV's top news and videos, plus exclusive subscriber-only content direct to your inbox. TelecomTV is produced by the team at Decisive Media. © Decisive Media Limited 2024. All rights reserved. All brands and products are the trademarks of their respective holder(s).