Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Shares of Advance Auto Parts suffered their worst day of trading on record Wednesday after the company's fiscal first-quarter earnings significantly missed Wall Street's expectations and executives slashed the retailer's yearly guidance and quarterly dividend. The Raleigh, North Carolina-based auto parts supplier blamed its dismal results and bleaker outlook on higher-than-expected costs for its professional sales, inflationary pressure, supply chain problems and an unfavorable product mix. Share of the company plummeted 35% on Wednesday to close at $72.89. It marked the largest daily decline ever for the company since it went public in 2001 and the lowest closing price since February 2013. The company's earnings per share for the period came in at just 72 cents, compared with an expected $2.57 per share, according to average analyst estimates compiled by Refinitiv. Its quarterly revenue of $3.42 billion slightly missed expectations of $3.43 billion. "We expect the competitive dynamics we faced in the first quarter to continue, resulting in a shortfall to our 2023 expectations. We have reduced our full-year guidance and our board of directors made the difficult decision to reduce our quarterly dividend," CEO Tom Greco said in a statement. Shares of other auto parts suppliers such as O'Reilly Automotive and AutoZone were also lower Wednesday. However, some Wall Street analysts believe Advanced Auto Parts' problems could be more operational than industrywide. "In our view, AAP issues are, likely, largely its own, and could suggest improved market share opportunities for Outperform-rated AutoZone (AZO) and O'Reilly Auto (ORLY)," Oppenheimer analyst Brian Nagel said in an investor note Wednesday. In its quarterly release, Advance Auto Parts declared a dividend of 25 cents per share to be paid out in July. In its prior-quarter earnings, Advance Auto Parts declared a dividend of $1.50 per share. The company also cut its full-year profit outlook and now expects earnings per share of between $6 and $6.50, down from a previously stated range of $10.20 to $11.20. That's despite lowering its net sales expectations by a range of just $200 million to $300 million, signaling operational problems with margins. For the first quarter, the company's net sales rose 1.3% to $3.4 billion compared with a year ago. Its gross profit declined by 2.4% to $1.5 billion. Net income for the period was $42.7 million, or 72 cents per share, down from $139.8 million, or, $2.28 per share, a year earlier. "While we anticipated the first quarter would be challenging, our results were below our expectations," Greco said. Shares of auto parts suppliers greatly benefited in recent years amid inflated prices of new and used vehicles due to tight supplies. Tight inventories and higher prices, resulting from production stoppages from the coronavirus pandemic and supply chain issues, led many car owners to keep their vehicles for longer, meaning more repairs and maintenance. Shares of Advance Auto Parts peaked at more than $244 per share in January 2022. They've steadily declined since then. "We have followed AAP and the auto parts retail sector for many years. We have consistently maintained the view that underlying, likely structural issues impact the AAP business model and prevent even solid operational teams from driving sustained sales and profit expansion at the chain," Nagel said. UBS analyst Michael Lasser, in an investor note Wednesday, said Advance Auto Parts' results "reflect the challenges of trying to catch up in an industry that is competitive and filled with good operators." – CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this report. Correction: Average analyst estimates were compiled by Refinitiv. An earlier version misspelled the firm's name. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by