News News | Mar 20, 2023  MONDAY AFTERNOON UPDATE: The Pitkin County coroner’s Office identified the skier who died in Sunday’s avalanche as Gábor Házas, a 54-year-old man from Budapest, Hungary, according to the Pitkin County Coroner’s Office. Házas and two others were skiing in Maroon Bowl outside of the Aspen Highlands Ski Area when they were caught in an avalanche around 1:27 p.m. on Sunday, March 19. The two other skiers were rescued but Házas was buried and did not survive. The cause of death is being investigated and the manner of death is an accident, the Coronor’s Office said Monday. Original story An avalanche Sunday afternoon in Maroon Bowl off the west side of Highland Peak killed a skier, according to a Pitkin County Sheriff’s Office press release. At 1:27 p.m., Pitkin County Regional Emergency Dispatch Center received a call from the Aspen Highlands Ski Patrol reporting a large out-of-bounds avalanche in Maroon Bowl with three skiers likely caught. Shortly after this call, Highlands Ski Patrol reported that only one skier was buried by the avalanche, according to the press release. Due to remaining avalanche danger, Ski Patrol was not able to send patrol to the three skiers and Mountain Rescue Aspen was notified. By 2:15, rescuers were on Maroon Creek Road, preparing to enter the field. Remaining avalanche danger prevented rescuers from reaching the skiers, so it was decided to use air rescue resources to access the skiers. At this same time, one of the skiers was in contact with dispatch and confirmed they were uninjured. The skier was able to uncover the buried skier and begin CPR. At 2:25 p.m., Ski Patrol was in contact with the third skier and was working on getting the skier to hike up the mountainside so they could get a rope to the skier and pull that individual uphill and into ski area. According to the release, this skier was rescued by Highlands Ski Patrol. Meanwhile, helicopter resources from Care Flight of the Rockies, Flight for Life and the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control were called to assist in the rescue of the other two skiers. Due to the excessive slope angles on the mountainside, Care Flight and Flight for Life were not able to land in the vicinity of the skiers. At 4:15 p.m., dispatch confirmed the uninjured skier stopped CPR on the previously buried skier. At 4:36, the DFPC helicopter was able to insert to MRA rescuers at their location. The rescuers confirmed the previously buried skier was deceased. At 4:45 p.m., the helicopter retrieved the uninjured and deceased skier and flew them to Aspen/Pitkin County Airport. The Mountain Rescue team was able to ski safely down to Maroon Creek Road, all rescue personnel were safely out of the field by 5:30, the release states. “Each of the three skiers involved in this avalanche had avalanche safety training and were carrying and using avalanche safety equipment. The identity of the deceased skier is being withheld pending necessary notifications and the completion of the coroner’s investigation,” the press release states. Preliminary reports from the Colorado Avalanche Information Center state the avalanche broke about 200 feet wide and ran about 2,000 vertical feet and was triggered at about 1 p.m.. On the CAIC danger scale, Aspen and the surrounding area were at a 2, or moderate risk for above, near and below the treeline. “The most dangerous slopes face northeast, east and southeast. This is where recent storm snow sits on buried weak layers and crusts. The only way to deal with this avalanche problem is to avoid steep easterly-facing slopes,” the avalanche forecasts states. It also states that risks remain on north and west facing slopes due to a weak layer buried, even though there has been less avalanche activity on these aspects. There may be no indication of unstable snow before triggering an avalanche. Maroon Bowl is a steep northwest-facing slope in the near treeline elevation band. CAIC staff will visit the accident site on Monday and said they will publish a final report in the next week.  According to CAIC avalanche statistics, the last fatal avalanche in Aspen was in 2018. The avalanche caught two side country riders in Maroon Bowl and killed one. From 1984 to 2018, there have been 11 avalanche fatalities at or in the surrounding country of Aspen Highlands, according to the CAIC database. To reach Audrey Ryan, email her at aryan@aspentimes.com. 
Aug 19, 2024
  
Aug 18, 2024
 
Aug 18, 2024
 
Aug 17, 2024
 
Aug 16, 2024
 
Aug 16, 2024
  
Aug 16, 2024
 
Aug 16, 2024
 
Aug 16, 2024
 
Aug 18, 2024
 Readers around Glenwood Springs and Garfield County make the Post Independent’s work possible. Your financial contribution supports our efforts to deliver quality, locally relevant journalism. Now more than ever, your support is critical to help us keep our community informed about the evolving coronavirus pandemic and the impact it is having locally. Every contribution, however large or small, will make a difference.
 Each donation will be used exclusively for the development and creation of increased news coverage. 
LOCATION Glenwood Springs / Garfield County DEPARTMENT Probation POSITION INFORMATION Job Code: R51300 Full Time Salary Range: $45,321.00 - $65,716.00…
 
Join Our Dynamic Team at Lassiter Electric, TODAY! Are you ready to spark your career with an exciting opportunity in…
 
Take the next step in your career and make a lasting impact on your community- join our team. Starting at…
 
$40 - $48 per hour Full-time on-site position available in Aspen (with some travel) to provide professional driving services, maintain…
 
System Operations Engineer I-II Glenwood Springs Position utilizes software platforms to study, plan, protect & maintain Holy Cross Energy’s (HCE)…
 
JOIN TEAM CMC: Elevating the Vitality of Our Beautiful Rocky Mountain Region! FULL-TIME OPENINGS: SPRING VALLEY - Facilities Maintenance Technician…
 
Garfield County WE ARE LOOKING FOR.... • Facilities Maintenance Technician - Rifle • Landfill Equipment Operator - Rifle • Road&…
 
Personal Assistant Salary $80,000- $120,000, depending on qualifications.  Includes full benefits package. Fulltime position for large Aspen home. &nbsp...
 
Sales in a family orientated environment. Need to be reliable, responsible and customer care orientated. Education Level: High school education…
 
We are looking for an experienced Chef/Sushi Chef who is looking for an opportunity to contribute to a creative fun…
 Sign up for daily and breaking news headlines.
Manage Subscriptions    Nine out of 10 respondents in a recent Colorado Health Foundation survey rated the issue of housing affordability as an extreme or very serious problem. How do you feel about housing?  View Results 
Jobs
 
Classifieds
 
Autos
 
Real Estate
 
Rentals
 
Service Directory
 
Pets
 
Merchandise
 
Legals
 
Place Legal Ad
 
Search Legal Ads
 
Farm & Ranch
 
Recreation
 
Announcements
 
News
 
Contact Us
 
Become a Carrier
 
Submissions
 
Submit an Obituary
 
Archives
 
Newsletters
 
Commercial Print Sales
 
RSS
 
AP News
 
Post Independent E-Edition
 
Citizen Telegram E-Edition
 
Cookie List
 
Do not sell my personal information
 
Aspen-Snowmass
 
Breckenridge-Summit County
 
Craig-Moffat County
 
Park City-Utah
 
Steamboat Springs-Routt County
 
Vail-Eagle Valley
 
Winter Park-Granby-Grand County
 
Printing Press Jobs
 ©2005 - 2024 Swift Communications, Inc.