ST. LOUIS (AP) — Bowen Byram scored twice and Mikko Rantanen scored his 200th NHL goal to help the Colorado Avalanche beat the St. Louis Blues 4-1 Saturday and remain in third place in the Central Division. Valeri Nichuskin also scored, and Justus Annunen stopped 19 shots in his season debut to give Colorado its third win in four games. “I thought he was steady,” Avalanche coach Jared Bednar said of Annunen, who appeared in his third NHL game. “Good outing from him. He didn't have a lot of work, but made some saves look easy.” Sammy Blais scored for St. Louis, and Jordan Binnington made 29 saves as the Blues snapped a three-game winning streak less than 24 hours after trading centers Ryan O’Reilly and Noel Acciari to the Toronto Maple Leafs. “I don't know if it was tough to get up for,” Blues center Brayden Schenn said. “It was just a lot of emotion from last night. The trade happened so late.” Byram recorded his first career multigoal game when he one-timed a feed from Samuel Girard on a power play for his fifth goal of the season to give Colorado a 4-1 lead 9:40 into the third period. “It's part of what our identity is,” Bednar said. “Our D have always been active participants in our offense. Bo's obviously missed some time, but getting back up to speed, we're starting to see him contribute a little bit more.” Nichuskin scored his ninth goal of the season on a power play 2:56 into the third period to restore Colorado’s two-goal lead. The Avalanche converted on both of their power plays in the third period after starting the game 0 for 2. “It's been stale a little bit here recently, Bednar said. "I think it's trying to be too cute and looking for the perfect play. We just encouraged them after the second to shoot the puck, make sure your work ethic and competitiveness is where it needs to be and just getting more competitive, more simple, shoot it and go to the net.” Blais scored his second goal of the season with 4:32 remaining in the second period to narrow St. Louis’ deficit to 2-1. “We got one there to make it a one-goal game," Blues defenseman Justin Faulk said. "We had an opportunity going into the third period to put some pressure on. I took a penalty, and they scored and put us on our heels a little bit. We probably were a little bit on the outside too much and didn't test the goalie as much as we'd have liked to.” Byram scored his first goal on a pass from Rantanen 7:27 into the second period to stretch Colorado’s lead to 2-0. Rantanen scored his team-leading 35th of the season and 200th of his career with 3:23 remaining in the first period to give Colorado a 1-0 lead. TRAINER’S ROOM Avalanche D Josh Manson was scratched with the team playing Sunday against Edmonton as the team’s medical staff looks to avoid having him play in back-to-back games coming off a lower-body injury. … Avalanche D Cale Makar returned to the lineup after missing four games with a concussion. ... Blues F Pavel Buchnevich left the game with a lower-body injury. Berube said he will not accompany the team to Ottawa. REVOLVING DOOR Annunen became the 40th player to suit up for Colorado this season, breaking last season’s record of 39. Annunen was recalled from Cleveland of the American Hockey League with goaltender Pavel Francouz expected to miss about three weeks with a lower-body injury. SPRINGFIELD SHUTTLE: Prior to the game the Blues recalled forwards Nikita Alexandrov and Matthew Highmore from Springfield of the AHL to fill the roster spots of recently traded O’Reilly and Acciari. Both are expected to join the team Sunday in Ottawa. UP NEXT: Avalanche: Hosts Edmonton on Sunday. Blues: Visit Ottawa on Sunday to open a two-game trip. ___ AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.