De Montfort University Leicester (DMU) is collaborating with the city’s landmark Curve theatre to bring an all-student cast to the stage in a production of Jim Cartwright’s ‘Road’. The cast of 'Road' in rehearsals with director Cara Nolan    Photo: Kieran Vyas Students on the Drama and Theatre Arts course will star in the state-of-the-nation play, set on an unnamed road in 1980s northern England, from 18-20 May, with tickets on sale now. One of the students taking part in the production, Ella Gibson, is gaining invaluable experience of working in the theatre environment. “So far it’s been a very eye-opening experience and quite surreal. It’s been great looking at how a production is staged from the perspective of a well-known theatre like Curve and getting an insight into all the different departments,” said the 20-year-old from Lincoln. Ella in rehearsals    Photo: Kieran Vyas Julia Koziol, another member of the ‘Road’ cast, has also felt the benefit of gaining professional experience with an established theatre. “This opportunity has allowed me to see how a production works, not just when it’s ready for the stage, but also to see its development. We’ve learned so many new skills and have met loads of great people through Curve,” said the 21-year-old from Warsaw, Poland. “We’ve had really helpful sessions with a movement director and a vocal coach, learning to find balance in our bodies and exercising our voices, as well as learning a range of acting methods.” Julia rehearsing her role in 'Road'    Photo: Kieran Vyas While many, if not all, of the cast of ‘Road’ weren’t yet born in the 1980s, the subject matter of the play has nonetheless resonated with the group. Ella said: “The choice of play is brilliant. While the setting is very specific and the topics are hard-hitting, there are moments of humour which make it relatable, and a lot of the issues are poignant when you consider the current cost of living crisis and the levels of homelessness in the UK. “Even though theatre can be an escape, there will be a lot of relevance for people sitting in the audience. While the play is definitely gritty, there are really uplifting moments which show there’s a positive in everything. That’s what I’ve taken away from the experience.” For both Ella and Julia, the collaborative nature of the project has been a highlight, with the production developing from a true partnership between DMU and the team at Curve. Photo: Kieran Vyas “The cast have all had a say and have been involved with processes like costume design and working with the department to give our perspective on our characters,” Ella said. “I love acting because you get to be part of something where everyone involved plays an essential role in making it happen - and ‘Road’ has definitely been an example of everyone working together to create something brilliant.” For Julia, the project has been a welcome opportunity to get a taste of the acting industry. “One of the best things about this experience is that we’ve all been treated as artists, not just a group of students, which has been great. We’re doing everything in the way it would be done in any other professional production so that’s been a huge plus for us,” she said. “We’ve had the chance to build on what we’ve learned at DMU and make even more industry connections, which is so valuable. On our degree we learn the fundamentals of acting, as well as the theory, which allows you to try theatre from different angles, including acting, marketing and stage managing. This production has allowed us to really see all of that in action.” De Montfort University The Gateway Leicester LE1 9BH UNITED KINGDOM De Montfort University The Gateway Leicester LE1 9BH UNITED KINGDOM