Lloyd's List is part of Maritime Intelligence This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited, registered in England and Wales with company number 13831625 and address c/o Hackwood Secretaries Limited, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom. Lloyd’s List Intelligence is a trading name of Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited. Lloyd’s is the registered trademark of the Society Incorporated by the Lloyd’s Act 1871 by the name of Lloyd’s. This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use. For high-quality copies or electronic reprints for distribution to colleagues or customers, please call UK support at +44 (0)20 3377 3996 / APAC support at +65 6508 2430 Printed By   Iron ore loadings from Brazil rose 30% in the past week compared with the previous seven days, according to data from cargo-tracking firm DBX Commodities VALE, the second-biggest iron ore producer in the world, has some catching up to do after first quarter of the year sales slipped 7%. While iron ore production rose 6% to 66.8m tonnes compared with the corresponding period a year earlier because of a stronger performance at its S11D plant and better weather conditions in Minas Gerais, both fines and pellet sales declined 7% to 54m tonnes due to loading restrictions in the Northern System during the rainy season, as well as unscheduled maintenance of port equipment, the miner said in a report. Vale said it expects to offset this impact in the second half of the year keeping its annual sales plan unchanged. 

No material impact to Vale’s operations from rail issues in Brazil
By Nidaa Bakhsh
17 Mar 2023
Spot rates for capesizes took a knock on uncertainty about whether shipments of iron ore would be affected by landslides on the MRS rail network in Brazil

		Read the full article here
	

 Spot rates for capesizes took a knock on uncertainty about whether shipments of iron ore would be affected by landslides on the MRS rail network in Brazil It is maintaining its full-year production guidance between 310m-320m tonnes and will have to produce at least 243m tonnes over the course of the year to meet the lower end of that range.  Arctic Securities said that keeping output unchanged implies a growth rate of -1%, 1% and 3% for the balance of the year versus the corresponding quarters last year based on the low, mid-range and high point of the guidance.  “The fact that the second half of the year is expected to bridge the sales-to-production gap should be a positive read for the dry bulk market, although it is difficult to quantify the impact,” the Norwegian investment firm said in a note. 
 According to cargo-tracking firm DBX Commodities, loadings in Brazil totalled 6.45m tonnes last week, a gain of 30% from the previous seven days, while volumes from Australia fell 35% to 11.69m tonnes. Discharges in China rose 12% to 22.5m tonnes over the same period. China is the biggest offtaker of iron ore and the fact that its economic recovery looks to be in full swing will be good news for the dry bulk market.  

Big miners offer little hope for dry bulk demand
By Nidaa Bakhsh
08 Dec 2022
Flat production targets do not bode well for the dry bulk market, which has softened in recent weeks — especially capesizes, which are more exposed to iron ore trades

		Read the full article here
	

 Flat production targets do not bode well for the dry bulk market, which has softened in recent weeks — especially capesizes, which are more exposed to iron ore trades The economy grew by 4.5% in the first quarter, beating expectations, and is on target for 5% growth for the full year. However, the growth was led by consumer spending rather than industrial production, said Shipfix senior economist and quantitative analyst Ulf Bergman. “Disappointing industrial production during March suggest that the road ahead may not be without its challenges for the Chinese economy,” he said in a note. “The country’s appetite for imported commodities may not be as strong as when China reopened after the first round of lockdowns in 2020.” The current month has started off on a slow trajectory, which may indicate that economic growth rates could lose some momentum during the summer, he said. 





View full table
     Your username does not meet the requirements. Sorry - this email domain is not allowed. Sorry - public email accounts are not allowed. Please provide a work email address. An account with that username already exists. Unfortunately we've not been able to process your registration. Please contact support. 
Please Note: You can also Click below Link for Ask the Analyst
Ask The Analyst
 Your question has been successfully sent to the email address below and we will get back as soon as possible.  my@email.address. 
                    All fields are required.
                 
                        Please make sure all fields are completed.
                     
                        Please make sure you have filled out all fields
                     
                        Please make sure you have filled out all fields
                     
                        Please enter a valid e-mail address
                     
                        Please enter a valid Phone Number
                     



 
Ask your question to our analysts
 All set! This article has been sent to my@email.address. 
				All fields are required. For multiple recipients, separate email addresses with a semicolon.
			 
					Please make sure all fields are completed.
				 
					Please enter a valid e-mail address
				 
					Please make sure you have filled out all fields
				 
					Please make sure you have filled out all fields
				 
Subject: Vale must up iron ore output to meet full-year target
                    
 
Add a personalized message to your email
 
Please Note: Only individuals with an active subscription will be able to access the full article. All other readers will be directed to the abstract and would need to subscribe.
			 
                        Finish creating your saved search alert after you sign in
                        
                    Copyright © 2024 Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited. Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited is registered in England and Wales with company number 13831625 and address Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited, 5th Floor, 10 St Bride Street, London, EC4A 4AD, United Kingdom. Lloyd’s List Intelligence is a trading name of Maritime Insights & Intelligence Limited.    Lloyd’s is the registered trademark of the Society Incorporated by the Lloyd’s Act 1871 by the name of Lloyd’s.
                 This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use. For high-quality copies or electronic reprints for distribution to colleagues or customers, please call UK support at +44 (0)20 3377 3996 / APAC support at +65 6508 2430 Printed By  