Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     WASHINGTON — Drivers in D.C. may face longer commutes as a new movie begins production in the District.  There is no official word on which movie is currently being filmed in D.C., however, WUSA9 did spot several Marvel Studios production trucks in Northwest Tuesday. Earlier this year, Mayor Muriel Bowser stood alongside Deputy Mayor for Planning and Economic Development (DMPED); OCTFME Director LaToya Foster when it was announced that the superhero franchise would be coming to D.C. “We have Marvel coming to Washington, D.C.,” Foster said.  “I can’t give you too much about that but let me tell you, we’re going to have a huge Marvel film taking place right in downtown that you won’t want to miss out on.” Officials never said which Marvel project was coming to the nation's capital but as production continues, which stars are spotted could give some hints.  Hey look…@MarvelStudios Film trucks in downtown DC by the #WhiteHouse.@DCPoliceDept confirms there will be filming tonight and tomorrow night. Lots of speculation about what is being shot. @Kevfeige — Wanna fill us in? @wusa9 @Marvel pic.twitter.com/LyASdFJnfw The movie's production will cause some roadways to be closed and parking may be restricted. The Metropolitan Police Department released a list of streets impacted by the film Tuesday. The following streets will be posted as Emergency No Parking from Monday, June 26, 2023, at 12:00 a.m. through Friday, June 30, 2023, at 7:00 p.m.: The following streets will be closed to vehicle traffic from Tuesday, June 27, 2023, at 6:30 p.m. through Wednesday, June 28, 2023, at 6 a.m. and from Wednesday, June 28, 2023, at 6:30 p.m. through Thursday, June 29, 2023 at 6 a.m.: All closures and listed times may change based. Drivers in the area are urged to consider alternate routes.  If you plan on parking in the area, police say you should expect parking restrictions along the street and should be guided by the posted emergency no parking signs. All vehicles that are parking in violation of the no parking signs will be ticketed and towed.  In addition to the closures and parking restrictions, The Metropolitan Police Department and the D.C. Department of Transportation say they are anticipating an increase in the number of pedestrians in the area.  WUSA9 is now on Roku and Amazon Fire TVs. Download the apps today for live newscasts and video on demand. Download the WUSA9 app to get breaking news, weather and important stories at your fingertips. Sign up for the Get Up DC newsletter: Your forecast. Your commute. Your news.Sign up for the Capitol Breach email newsletter, delivering the latest breaking news and a roundup of the investigation into the Capitol Riots on January 6, 2021. Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.