GO AD LITE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press  Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press    Home   Spalding   News   Article About 80 jobs could be created after plans to construct a specialist vehicle parts factory have been given the green light. Dhoot Transmission UK have received full planning permission for the site, which will be situated off the A16 in Kirton - despite an objection by Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust. The factory, to be located on land to the south east of Avalon Road, part of the Kirton Distribution Park. Dhoot-owned Parkinson Harness Technology - which has provided parts including high-voltage cables, wiring harnesses and battery leads to the UK and European specialist vehicle market for more than 20 years - currently rents two sites in Boston, but hopes to bring its workforce together at the village site. When applying for planning permission the firm claimed moving to a bespoke factory could double its turnover within five years while the current combined workforce of 165 could rise by as much as 50 per cent. “The application will assist the sustainable development of a successful local manufacturing company and hence contribute to the economy of the borough,” the decision report concluded. “The site is allocated and is suitable for the proposed uses and the proposal is considered to be sound in principle. “Whilst the scheme will have impacts on both public and private amenity, mitigations can be secured by condition which will ensure that amenity impacts are not unacceptably harmful.” Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust put forward a holding objection to the plans ‘until further details are provided as to how the madatory 10% biodiversity net gain and subsequent monitoring and management for the 30-year period will be achieved’. They also argued December’s survey of the site was at an ‘inappropriate’ time of year. The decision report added: “Biodiversity impacts should be investigated and regulated via additional wildlife surveys and recommendations, and archaeological investigations will be required before significant construction work commences.” View magazine now! Entries are now OPEN!