EXCLUSIVE: Principal photography has wrapped in Northern Ireland on the coming-of-age comedy-drama The Wise Guy from local production outfit Out of Orbit, starring Darrell D’Silva (Wrath Of Man). The Wise Guy is the debut feature from writer-director Sam O’Mahony and tells the story of Francis Burns, a lonely boy (and devout atheist) who desperate for guidance and protection, finds an unconventional mentor hiding in the nearby woods; an American Gangster. More from Deadline Avalon Boss Jon Thoday "Surprised" ITV Bosses Didn't Know About Phillip Schofield Affair - Edinburgh TV Festival Egypt's El Gouna Film Fest Unveils First Wave Of Int'l Titles; Berlinale, Cannes & Sundance Winners Head To Comeback Edition 'Kaala': Disney+ Hotstar Unveils T-Series First OTT Streaming Drama The screenplay was developed through Northern Ireland Screen’s New Writer Focus scheme, with production funding coming from Northern Ireland Screen’s New Talent Focus Fund supported by Invest NI and from post-production house Yellow Moon. Previous feature films to come through Northern Ireland Screen’s New Talent Focus scheme include Out of Orbit’s The Dig, A Bump Along the Way by Shelly Love, Bad Day for the Cut by Chris Baugh, and The Devil’s Doorway by Aislinn Clarke. D’Silva stars alongside Senan Jennings (Vivarium), Lisa Dwyer-Hogg (The Fall), Paul Mallon (Derry Girls), and Joanne Crawford (Blue Lights) with Leon Coole producing. Executive producers are Jon Beer, Brian J. Falconer, and Ursula Devine. “Shooting The Wise Guy here in Northern Ireland over the last few weeks has been so much fun. I don’t remember the last time I laughed as much. I cried a bit too,” O’Mahony said. “Watching my script come to life through the immense talent of my brilliant cast and crew has been exciting and humbling. I always hoped this film would find the sweet spot between comedy and drama and with Senan Jennings and Darrell D’Silva leading our cast, I know we found it. As we approach the edit, I feel more confident than ever that this is a story that will resonate emotionally and entertain in equal measure. I was beyond thrilled to have had the support of Northern Ireland screen and Out of Orbit on my debut feature and look forward to the exciting road ahead.” Check out the image above. Best of Deadline 2023 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming SAG-AFTRA Interim Agreements: Full List Of Movies And TV Series 2024 Presidential Election Debate Schedule: Dates, Times, Who'll Be There And Who Won't Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."