© 2023, Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. From a press release  issued By Brabus: World Premiere at Monaco Yacht Show 2023 BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION Limited edition of two times 25 naked bikes sporting  exclusive BRABUS design in the two colors “Onyx Black” and “Diamond White” The first BRABUS motorcycle was presented in February 2022. Following two extremely successful special editions of the BRABUS 1300 R, the final, likewise strictly limited MASTERPIECE EDITION now puts the crown on this exclusive series. The exciting hyper-naked bike will celebrate its world premiere at the Monaco Yacht Show from September 27 to 30, 2023.  The KTM 1290 SUPER DUKE R EVO, of which production is now coming to an end, once again serves as the platform for this special model. As a farewell, BRABUS presents the exclusive BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION: a series of two times 25 elaborately refined motorcycles in the colors “Onyx Black” and “Diamond White,” which are given even more extravagant looks with select elements finished in the color “Frozen Gold”, and an even further expanded carbon package. The single-seaters are powered by a V-twin engine rated at 132 kW / 180 hp and reach a top speed of 270 km/h. However, they particularly impress with their spectacular BRABUS Signature design. The thrilling front with its round LED headlight is unmistakable. The headlight is framed by a BRABUS exposed-carbon visor and combines classic motorcycle design with modern features such as the side fairings with integrated winglets inspired by motorsport. Like various parts of the front fender, they also are produced from this hi-tech composite material.   A Brabus 1300 R Masterpiece Edition in Onyx Black. Photo courtesy Brabus.
   In addition to the winglets, there are other carefully placed golden elements.  They include the striking BRABUS Monoblock Z hi-tech forged wheels featuring polished sections, the decorative rings around the two mufflers of the BRABUS sports exhaust system, the “1 of 25” Sign of Excellence emblem on the tank as well as the MASTERPIECE EDITION badge on the seat pad, which all mark these limited-edition motorcycles. The BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION sells for 41,930 euros or $44,066 USD (export price in Germany excluding statutory VAT). The philosophy of refining a high-end bike such as the KTM 1290 SUPER DUKE R EVO and giving it a very special profile in the hallmark BRABUS design idiom by means of high-quality exposed-carbon components struck a chord with motorcycle connoisseurs from all over the world. After two sold-out limited editions, at the end of production of this hyper naked bike there is now one last chance to score one of the world’s most extraordinary machines, which has the potential to become a sought-after collector’s item.   A Brabus 1300 R Masterpiece Edition in Diamond White. Photo courtesy Brabus.
   The exclusive BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION comes in two variants in the colors “Onyx Black” and “Diamond White” with 25 bikes of each being built. Compared with the previous limited editions, they feature an even more extensive carbon package. It includes covers for the single-sided swingarm and the triangular frame sections under the tank and seat, as well as a cover for the top of the alternator enclosure. This exclusive hyper naked bike from the BRABUS Manufaktur is immediately identifiable by its unique design featuring a front visor with large, round LED headlight and distinctive side fairings with integrated winglets as found on a MotoGP machine. These visual elements are produced from exposed carbon just like parts of the front fender and various cover plates on the engine. When the bike is started, the TFT display of the 1300 R shows an animation specifically programmed for this BRABUS limited edition. Both versions of the new BRABUS bike feature a matte black trellis frame and the powerful KTM LC8 V-twin engine with a displacement of 1.3 liters, which gives the BRABUS 1300 R special model its name. This engine produces a maximum output of 132 kW / 180 hp at 9,500 rpm and a peak torque of 140 Nm at 8,000 rpm. It catapults the MASTERPIECE EDITION from rest to 100 km/h in a mere 3.2 seconds and propels the bike to a top speed of 270 km/h. The WP semi-active suspension ensures decidedly sporty and safe handling. In AUTO mode it independently adapts to the road conditions and the driving style. At the touch of a button, the rider can also manually choose between different setups ranging from emphatically comfortable to a firm ride suitable for laps on the racetrack. There are also various available modes for the engine electronics that modify the power delivery in five stages from smooth on wet roads to maximum power output for racing circuits. The sporty focus of this special model is reflected in a tailor-made tire/wheel combination as well. The 17-inch BRABUS Monoblock Z “GOLD PLATINUM” wheels were developed specifically for these bikes and are manufactured using state-of-the-art forging and CNC technologies. Matching their name, for the MASTERPIECE EDITION they sport a golden finish. Diamond-polished sections give the nine-spoke design an even more exclusive look. The wheels carry performance tires of sizes 120/70 R 17 at the front and 200/55 R 17 at the rear. They offer outstanding grip for sporty cornering.   The Brabus 1300 R Masterpiece Edition is based on the KTM 1290 Super Duke R EVO. Photo courtesy Brabus.
   The exclusive color scheme of the wheels is also found in other details of the BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION. They include “Frozen Gold” highlight features such as the BRABUS MASTERPIECE badges, the winglets in the BRABUS side fairings on the left and right of the tank, ‘Signature Stripes’ on the front and rear, as well as the rings around the two mufflers of the BRABUS slip-on sports exhaust system. The name of this special model is laser-etched on the two sleek rear mufflers. The BRABUS exhaust naturally impresses not only with its sophisticated looks, but also with an even more aggressive exhaust note of the two-cylinder engine. Its design furthermore is a seamless fit with the extravagant looks created in the BRABUS design studio. Depending on the selected variant, the tank, the tail cowl and parts of the front fender come in “Onyx Black” or “Diamond White.” The BRABUS upholstery shop covers the custom single seat with fine black leather and applies an exceedingly accurate “Diamond Rising” quilting pattern for both color variants. The padding for the tail cowl with golden “BRABUS MASTERPIECE” badge keeps the rider securely on the seat even under full acceleration. The individually adjustable foot pegs and the adjustable clutch and brake levers enable the rider to find the perfect seating position on the BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION. This makes the exclusive motorcycle from the latest cooperation between KTM and BRABUS the perfect choice for motorcycle enthusiasts with a penchant for spirited riding who wish for a sporty naked bike with outstanding driving dynamics and extravagant design. Available now in “Onyx Black” or “Diamond White” in a limited edition of 25 bikes each. Each MASTERPIECE EDITION motorcycle comes with exclusive accessories: These include a tailor-made indoor cover for the motorcycle as well as a mat for the parking space in the garage at home, both of course featuring golden BRABUS 1300 R emblems. Each unit is also delivered with an exclusive BRABUS MASTERPIECE box made of carbon, which not only serves to store the bike’s keys, but also opens up the possibility for the vehicle owner to join the BRABUS MASTERPIECE CLUB. In addition, every owner of this limited-edition motorcycle receives the opportunity to enjoy an exclusive guided tour of the BRABUS Manufaktur in Bottrop. The special equipment features of the BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE EDITION: BRABUS “1 of 25” Sign of Excellence emblem with “Frozen Gold” highlights BRABUS 1300 R MASTERPIECE badge on seat pad
Front fender elements, tank and tail cowl with a choice of “Onyx Black” or “Diamond White” paintwork Frame painted matte black Exclusive carbon package consisting of dash and connector cover, covers for the triangular frame side sections as well as a cover for the single-sided swingarm BRABUS Monoblock Z ”GOLD PLATINUM” forged alloy wheels BRABUS 1300 R slip-on dual exhaust with accent rings in “Frozen Gold” Heated, black BRABUS single seat with “Diamond Rising” quilting pattern BRABUS start animation and color scheme for the display BRABUS exposed-carbon headlight visor with round LED headlight BRABUS exposed-carbon side fairings with integrated winglets BRABUS exposed-carbon front spoiler CNC-milled BRABUS triple clamp Adjustable, CNC-milled BRABUS front brake and clutch levers CNC-milled BRABUS aluminum caps for brake and clutch hydraulics reservoirs Adjustable, CNC-milled BRABUS foot pegs CNC-milled BRABUS aluminum caps for gas tank and oil tank BRABUS bar end mirrors BRABUS exposed-carbon tail with single seat and short license plate bracket LED turn signals, with integrated tail lights and brake lights at the rear WP APEX semi-active suspension, choice of AUTO mode or manually adjustable WP PRO COMPONENTS (WP APEX PRO 7117) steering damper Engine electronics with five selectable riding modes (STREET – SPORT – RAIN – PERFORMANCE – TRACK). Quick-action throttle Heated grips Lightweight lithium-ion battery Additional BRABUS exposed-carbon components Tailor-made BRABUS indoor motorcycle cover Exclusive BRABUS floor mat for parking the bike in the garage Exclusive BRABUS MASTERPIECE box made from carbon « Previous Article |  Next Article » 











Follow us
43,094FansLike19,223FollowersFollow16,430FollowersFollow1,200SubscribersSubscribe 


Menu


Action Fund
Events
Store
Subscribe
Past Issues



Information


Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact







© , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc.




AUTHOR LOGIN




 © , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. [flipbook id=”9″] A “press release” is promotional text issued by a rider, team, company or organization to inform
the public about an event, product, or service from the issuer’s own point of view, and if deemed
to have news value, may be placed on roadracingworld.com as a service to our readers. A press release is not an article written by Roadracingworld.com staffers. When a post is labeled with the words “press release”, it means that Roadracingworld.com is not responsible for its content and that Roadracingworld.com makes no guarantee that it is accurate. Not all press releases are posted and Roadracingworld.com may reject press releases if the content is too heavy on commercial promotion with little or no news value or if the press release contains obvious errors.