Article Published: February 21, 2023 The line-up for this year’s RTÉ Choice Music Prize live event, in association with IMRO & IRMA, has been revealed. with Five of the ten Album of The Year acts confirmed to perform at the live event in Vicar St on March 9th. Joining the line-up are  Anna Mieke, Aoife Nessa Frances, Just Mustard, Pillow Queens and Thumper. The other nominated acts are unavailable due to touring commitments. It’s unclear at this point if the line-up will be augmented by performances from acts nominated in the Artist of the Year, Breakthrough Artist of the Year or Song of the Year categories will perform or if the winner of the inaugural Classic Album award which will be announced on March 6th make an appearance. As well as details of the live event Choice have also announced details of Choice Conversations which will take place in BIMM Dublin from 12AM on March 9th with a keynote speech from Fontaines manager Trevor Dietz and appearances from Radio X DJ JOhn Kennedy and BBC One’s Gemma Bradley. The winning album will be announced at the RTÉ Choice Music Prize live event in Vicar Street, Dublin on Thursday 9th March and broadcast live on RTÉ 2FM in a special four-hour extended show from 7-11pm. A special TV show will be broadcast on Thursday 16th March at 22.30 on RTÉ2 presented by Bláthnaid Treacy. The Irish Song of the Year 2022 will be announced by Tracy Clifford on the day of the live event on 9th March.  Tracy will also host the event that night. The winners of the Irish Album of the Year, Irish Artist of the Year and Irish Breakthrough Artist of the Year will all be announced at the live event from Vicar St and on RTÉ 2FM. Tickets on sale here For Those I Love at the Choice Music Prize. Photo by Owen Humphreys. www.owen.ie Full details of Choice Music Prize Conversations below   11am Registration at BIMM, Francis St 12-12.40pm Panel 1 Keynote Interview Trevor Dietz (Manager, Fontaines D.C.) The story of how Fontaines D.C. went from BIMM Students to Grammy-nominated artists in a matter of years.   12.50 – 1.30pm Panel 2 Building An Online Fanbase In the digital music era, where having an online presence before creating music is nearly the norm than the exception, this panel will explore how best to build and engage with your fan base leading to increased streams and ticket sales. Panellists: Ceri Dixon (Head of Digital Partnerships / Artist Manager, Red Light Management) SELLÓ (Artist) Olly Brooks (Campaign Manager, Blackstar Agency)   1.40pm-2.20pm Panel 3 Live & Direct With streaming and physical sales revenue for most artists a long way from providing a living wage, live & touring continues to be their most important revenue stream. This panel will discuss, amongst other things: What are live agents looking for from new and emerging Irish artists? How to build and maintain an audience through live activity.  Does Brexit make any difference to Irish artists looking to tour internationally? Panellists: Holly Rowland (Agent, Wassermann) Eleanor McGuinness (Partner / Agent, PlayBook Artists) Rob McGee (Agent, FMLY Agency)   2.30 – 3.20pm Panel 4 Heard It On The Radio Who better to ask than the DJs and broadcasters whose job relies on finding the best in new music.  Nels Hylton (BBC Radio 1), John Kennedy (Radio X) Gemma Bradley (BBC Radio 1 / BBC Radio Ulster) offer the inside track on how to grab those initial plays for your music. Panellists: Nels Hylton (BBC Radio 1) John Kennedy (Radio X) Gemma Bradley (BBC Radio 1 / BBC Radio Ulster)   3.30 – 4.15pm Panel 4 Behind The Scenes AIM Ireland chat to some of the independent music professionals behind some of this year’s RTÉ Choice Music Prize nominated artists. RTÉ Choice Music Prize in association with AIM Ireland (Moderated by Gill Dooley, CEO AIM Ireland). Panellists: Gino (Manager, SELLÓ) Joe Clarke (Manager, THUMPER) Ismay Burke (PR / Digital) Share this article on your socials...