The sustainable material is derived from advanced recycling and converted into a biaxially oriented polypropylene (BOPP) film for this application, which is the first mono-PP pasta packaging material in the market containing 30% of PCR content. Italian pasta manufacturer Garofalo introduced a novel new package  with a film made by GT Polifilm and Polivouga that uses certified circular  polypropylene (PP) from SABIC, part of its  TRUCIRCLE program to  accelerate a circular plastic economy. The sustainable material is derived from  advanced recycling and converted into a biaxially oriented polypropylene (BOPP)  film for this application, which is the first mono-PP pasta packaging material  in the market containing 30% of post-consumer recycled (PCR) content. Garofalo  introduced the first pasta bags made from the new packaging to Italian stores  in March 2023. “At Garofalo, we are fully committed to the quality and  environmental compatibility of our products. Of course, this innovative new  recycled pasta packaging is just one example of our sustainable initiatives,  but marks an important step forward. It shows how food manufacturers and  packaging suppliers are working together to bring about much needed change. As  a packaging product that is both made with recycled content and fully  recyclable, it also meets with a better consumer appeal,” says Dr. Sergio De  Gennaro, quality assurance manager, Pastificio Lucio Garofalo S.p.A. The PCR content in the bags is based on post-consumer  used plastics, which is turned into pyrolysis oil in an advanced recycling  process. At SABIC, the pyoil is used in the production of new polymers with the  same specifications as virgin plastics from conventional feedstock. Polivouga,  a vertically integrated Portuguese manufacturer of flexible films for packaging  products uses a SABIC PP 525PC grade from SABIC’s TRUCIRCLE portfolio of  certified circular polymers to produce the basic BOPP film for the new pasta  packaging solution. GT Polifilm, a specialist in the production of flexible  polypropylene products for automated packaging in the food industry, adds a  cast PP film to the BOPP film to create a mono-material structure, which is  then converted to tailor-made pasta bags. Once used, the mono-PP bags can  easily be recycled again in existing PP waste streams.  “For such  solutions to work in the long-term, the partners in the material value chain  must closely collaborate,” Abdullah Al-Otaibi, general manager, ETP &  Market Solutions, SABIC says.  “With our  TRUCIRCLE program, we are pushing for innovative business models to transform  our industry from a linear to a circular one and help prevent the valuable material  of end-of-life plastic applications from being wasted. Within a year, this  remarkable joint project has shown what can be achieved to make this vision  come true if all players work together to maximize post-consumer plastic  recycling and sustainability.” SABIC’s circular materials are produced using a mass  balance accounting scheme according to the International Sustainability &  Carbon Certification (ISCC) PLUS program, which follows a set of predefined and  transparent rules for tracking the material flow across complex supply chains  from the feedstock to the final application. While flexible plastic packaging is often the more  sustainable alternative, a lot of food is packaged in paper/plastic  combinations or laminates which are difficult to recycle and may have a bigger  carbon footprint due to higher resource consumption. As a more responsible  solution, flexible mono-material with PCR content is potentially the preferred  packaging route for a growing number of brand owners and retailers, while it is  also supported by EU authorities and NGOs. “The development and manufacture of sustainable and  economically viable packaging solutions to help reduce food and plastic waste  is firmly rooted in our DNA. The incorporation of recycled content has been a  key area of focus for us over the past few years,” Ragionier Talamo, Sole  Director at GT Polifilm adds. “By supporting the circular economy, adding value  to plastics and promoting their recycling into new packaging products, we hope  to make a significant contribution to solving the enormous challenge of  improving recycling rates and minimizing plastic waste.” Tiago Barros, Executive Manager at Polivouga, comments:  “As a producer of flexible films, we are well aware of our responsibilities in  turning our own and our customers’ sustainability goals into reality, and we  are very committed to the challenge. Our new BOPP product demonstrates the  determined journey we have embarked on with SABIC. We welcome the advanced  recycling route offered by SABIC as an opportunity to make a meaningful  contribution to the circularity of plastics in BOPP films. In collaboration  with strong global partners, this breakthrough project is demonstrating the  feasibility of reusing plastic waste in safe food-grade packaging rather than  losing its value to landfill or incineration.”   SABIC’s certified circular polymers are only part of its  TRUCIRCLE portfolio and services for circular solutions. The program also  includes design for recyclability, mechanically recycled products, certified  renewable polymers from bio-based feedstock and closed loop initiatives to  recycle plastic back into high quality applications and help prevent valuable  used plastics from becoming waste. PW