The initiative is expected to help Western divert nearly 55,000kg of its glassine label liner product annually from landfill. Avery Dennison has announced that Western Brand, Ireland’s farmed primary and free-range chicken products manufacturer, has joined its AD Circular programme to minimise packaging waste. The programme aims to promote the recycling of used polyethylene terephthalate and glassine label liners in various European nations. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 It involves the collection of these used liners, which are then sent to Avery’s recycling industry partners to be recycled and transformed into new items. Western joined this programme to address the issue of glassine label liners recycling used on its own food products’ packaging. Western’s environmental manager Colm Drugan said: “Although many of the materials we use, such as paper/cardboard and some plastics, are readily recyclable, some of our waste materials are not yet recyclable and therefore end up being landfilled. Until now, our glassine label liners were not recyclable.” Avery said that Western is working with one of its customers and advocate of the programme, Watershed Group, which is an Irish labelling and packaging solutions provider to various industries, including the food and beverage, pharmaceutical, and retail sectors. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Drugan added: “We were delighted to be introduced to AD Circular by Watershed, as it should enable us to divert a significant portion of our waste from landfill.” Watershed said that the AD Circular programme helps in addressing packaging waste issues for its various industry partners and brands while also maintaining transparency and saving costs. AD Circular is expected to help Western in diverting nearly 55,000kg of glassine label liners annually from landfill. Drugan added: “This will allow us to surpass our Origin Green 2023 target of 25% reduction (4.24kg landfilled/tonne of product) and actually achieve a 42% reduction (3.33kg/tonne of product). We will also achieve our Origin Green target of 33% recycled material (from production/packing).” “We can use the existing supply chain between both plants to ‘piggyback’ for transport and consolidate the storage and collection of the material for Avery Dennison.” Western Brand is now planning to expand a glassine recycling to its sister plant in Northern Ireland. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Inside Packaging : Packaging Gateway Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the packaging industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024