Newsletters Newsletters   This article is over a year old, and the information within may be out of date. Eight-year-old Isaac Blazek from Ridgeway was one of 85 people to participate in last year’s Discover Aviation program hosted by the Canadian Owners and Pilots Association. - Sarah Ferguson/Metroland Isaac Blazek will never forget the day he got the chance to fly in an airplane. “My Pops said to me he was going to take me somewhere for a big surprise,” the eight-year-old boy from Ridgeway explained. His grandfather, Ed Belward, signed the youngster up to participate last summer in the Canadian Owners and Pilots Association (COPA) Discover Aviation program. The one-day program is held each year to give prospective aviators a chance to see an airplane and all its components up close and find out how a plane can fly. Participants also get the opportunity to take a 20-minute flight in a four-seat plane to explore a portion of the Welland Canal, the Lake Erie shoreline and nearby municipalities. “When we got there, we saw inside the plane, the engine, and we got to see how everything works. It was super cool,” Isaac recalled. “We also got to see lots of stuff (from the sky) because it was super high.” Asked if he would like to become a pilot one day, Isaac said yes. The boy is one of 85 people who were given the opportunity last year to discover the magic of aviation. Planned for Saturday, Aug. 19, this year’s Discover Aviation Day will be held at Niagara Central Dorothy Rungeling Airport, at 435 River Rd. in Fenwick, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. A rain date has been scheduled for Aug. 20. Doug Reilly, COPA Flight 149, Discover Aviation co-ordinator, said the program is popular and spaces fill up quickly. There was a waiting list of 40 people from last year who were given dibs in registering for the 2023 program, which has no cost to participate in. “This is an opportunity for young people, aged eight to 20 years old, to experience the joy of flight, up close and personally in a small airplane,” he said. “After the experience we gained last year, I think we can comfortably accommodate more than we had last year.” There will be a mini-ground school where the prospective aviators will get a chance to go over an airplane to discuss the various components and find out just how a plane is able to fly. There will also be a small static display with a couple of planes so the kids can familiarize themselves before they go for their flight. Siblings and parents are welcome to come and take in the ground portion of the adventure. The flights are free of charge and are conducted by COPA Flight 149 pilots who are volunteering their time and aircraft. Each pilot is a member of COPA, licensed by Transport Canada, and all the aircraft utilized meet the regulatory requirements to safely fly. Limited space is available. For more information about the program, including how to register, email Reilly at DougatCOPA149@gmail.com. Registration forms are also available at https://sites.google.com/view/copa149atcnq3/home/discover-aviation. Top stories delivered to your inbox.  is a reporter with Niagara This Week. She can be reached at sferguson@metroland.com
 
Error! There was an error processing your request.
         
           There was a problem with the recaptcha. Please try again.
         
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         
                                 Want more of the latest from us? Sign up for more at our newsletter page.
                             
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: © Copyright 2024 Metroland Media Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved
8 Spadina Avenue, Suite 10A, Toronto, ON M5V 0S8       Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.    
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.