Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. A large-scale FAA initiative to modernize the US airspace. The FAA could issue flight attendants with fines of up to $10,000 per passenger infraction. Each of the models is responsible for testing different systems, with one aircraft, in particular, being used on the FAA certification proving flights The two-day hearings will continue on August 7, with the NTSB continuing to interrogate Boeing, Spirit AeroSystems, FAA, and other stakeholders. The new act would require updated screening operators for charter operators. While Boeing's bulletin indicated a specific number of 787s that would be affected, the FAA has expanded the proposed AD to affect all 787s. The airport is among another 129 that have received grants. A federal grand jury has indicted the passenger for his inappropriate and threatening behavior. Archer Aviation announces being on course for conducting over 400 test flights in 2024, having already conducted 233 for FAA certification. The city argues that the agency’s reasoning behind its position to keep the airport open is unclear.  Controllers will be scheduled shifts between 10 and 12 hours apart when the agreement goes into effect. The carrier plans to sit down and negotiate with the FAA. The airline said it is “in contact with the Federal Aviation Administration” regarding the mishap.   Polar routes are challenging, risky, and expensive to operate. The aircraft manufacturer has commended the individual for speaking up so they could address the issue in a timely manner. What led to the founding of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and how has it changed over the years? No new flight is being allowed to take off for now. Despite problems and intense backlash, the lessor has committed to the successful type. The hearing is set to take place during the first week of August. 
More than 10 planes registered in the US are affected.