We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. Table of Contents Table of Contents Are you planning a group travel event? Maybe you have a large family, or you’re heading to an event hosted by your employer. Whatever the case, you may be looking to purchase travel insurance for your time out of town; but since there are so many of you, it may make sense to purchase group travel insurance instead. So, is it better to buy travel insurance as a group or individual? The short answer is that it depends. If this is something you’re considering, read on to discover the different types of travel insurance, where to find group travel insurance plans and other tips for booking this type of insurance.  After you’ve figured out what you’re looking for, there are still a few things for you to consider before buying your insurance. Here are our top tips. Navigating travel insurance can be overwhelming on its own and can be compounded when you’re traveling with a group. Since every traveler will have different needs, you’ll likely want to get the most comprehensive insurance available. That means buying early. There are certain time limitations to specific types of insurance. Specifically, both pre-existing condition insurance and Cancel For Any Reason insurance are time sensitive. Pre-existing medical condition insurance can generally be purchased from 10 to 21 days after first putting down a deposit on your trip. Cancel For Any Reason insurance also typically needs to be purchased from 10 to 21 days after putting down your deposit. After these time frames, these insurances become unavailable and anyone in your group needing them will have to look elsewhere. You’ll also need to purchase travel insurance before an incident occurs. If you break your leg just before your trip but haven’t purchased insurance yet, it won’t cover the costs for cancellation. Not only do travel insurance companies sell different types of insurance, but they price it differently as well. This is true for travel insurance for groups and individual insurance. This means you’ll want to get more than one quote for your travel insurance. We tested the waters with our own search. In it, we put down a group of nine travelers heading overseas for a two-week vacation. The average cost for each traveler was $4,500 and their ages ranged from 35 to 55. An insurance search comparison tool like Squaremouth can show you a variety of options for a given trip. In this example, it came back with a quote of $2,431 all-in. The other option we looked into, Seven Corners, returned a cost of $2,286. » Learn more: How to find the best travel insurance This tip is more applicable to those with larger groups or those who may be traveling more often. If, for example, you’re a corporate customer whose employer is planning on quite a few conferences, you’ll likely need to purchase group travel insurance more than once. With the power of a crowd or the promise of additional business, you may want to consider contacting your travel insurance company directly to negotiate a better rate for your group. » Learn more: What does travel insurance cover? The needs of the many necessitate flexibility, and nowhere is this more evident than when trying to purchase a group travel insurance policy. We noted earlier that you’ll want to opt in early if you’re looking for the best coverage availability. Because you’re traveling with a group, you’ll also want to choose insurance that gives you flexibility. This can come in many forms. Some insurances will provide you with reimbursement if you’re laid off, for example. Others will allow you to purchase an add-on that allows you to cancel for any reason.  It may be more expensive, but you’ll likely want to choose those additional coverages for your group insurance so that everyone is covered for a variety of incidents. Finally, you’ll also want to consider flexibility when it comes to a return period. Insurance providers will generally offer money-back guarantees on their policies. The amount of time you’ll have to consider your decision will depend on your plan. This can range from 10 to 14 days, but it can span a longer period. » Learn more: Is travel insurance worth it? Did you know that many travel cards come with their own form of complimentary travel insurance? Coverage limits and types will depend on the card that you hold, but generally, you can expect to see things like rental car insurance, lost luggage insurance, trip cancellation insurance and trip delay insurance. Your group may even be covered when an individual uses their card to pay for the trip. With the Chase Sapphire Reserve®, for example, the cardholder and their family members are all covered in the event something goes awry. Covered travelers include: Spouses. Partners. Children. Stepparents. Aunts and uncles. Grandparents. Legal guardians. Nieces and nephews. Parents and siblings. That’s quite a range! The Platinum Card® from American Express also features travel insurance, though its definitions for who is covered are even broader. You’ll still need to pay for the trip with your eligible card, but you, your family members and your traveling companions all qualify for this insurance.  Note that a traveling companion is someone who has made advanced arrangements with you or your family members to travel together on a covered trip. Terms apply. However, before you go all-in on travel card insurance, you’ll want to review the coverage limits. With a large enough group, you may find that the complimentary insurance offered by your card isn’t sufficient for your needs. » Learn more: The best travel credit cards right now  Before you begin searching for travel insurance, you’ll first want to figure out what you’re looking for. Different companies will sell different types of travel insurance with varying levels of coverage, and the price changes to match. Most often, you can expect to find these varieties of travel insurance available for purchase: Accidental death insurance. Baggage delay and lost luggage insurance. Cancel for Any Reason insurance. Emergency evacuation insurance. Medical insurance. Rental car insurance. Trip cancellation insurance. Trip delay insurance. Trip interruption insurance. Most individuals purchase base level travel insurance coverage and then customize their plan to better fit their specific trip needs. Cancel For Any Reason insurance is a popular add-on; while it's an upcharge, it can help you get back up to 75% of your nonrefundable travel expenses. Travel insurance can provide peace of mind when you’re away from home, and there’s no reason why groups shouldn’t want it, too. Before purchasing a group policy, make sure you’re getting multiple quotes and searching for flexible plans so that everyone has what they need. Finally, check out your travel card to see if its complimentary insurance that fits with your travel plans. You want a travel credit card that prioritizes what’s important to you. Here are some of the best travel credit cards of 2024: Flexibility, point transfers and a large bonus: Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card No annual fee: Wells Fargo Autograph℠ Card Flat-rate travel rewards: Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card  Bonus travel rewards and high-end perks: Chase Sapphire Reserve® Luxury perks: The Platinum Card® from American Express Business travelers: Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card on Chase's website 1x-10xEarn 5x total points on flights and 10x total points on hotels and car rentals when you purchase travel through Chase Travel℠ immediately after the first $300 is spent on travel purchases annually. Earn 3x points on other travel and dining & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $900 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Chase's website 1x-5x5x on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3x on dining, select streaming services and online groceries, 2x on all other travel purchases, 1x on all other purchases. 60,000Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $750 when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. on Chase's website 1x-2xEarn 2X points on Southwest® purchases. Earn 2X points on local transit and commuting, including rideshare. Earn 2X points on internet, cable, and phone services, and select streaming. Earn 1X points on all other purchases. 50,000Earn 50,000 bonus points after spending $1,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105