
                    Wednesday, 11 Jan 2023
                 KUALA LUMPUR: Axiata Group Bhd has appointed Maya Hari as independent non-executive director with effect from Jan 11, 2023. In a statement, the telco group said Maya, 44, currently serves as the CEO of climate tech start-up Terrascope and serves on the board of Aviva Singlife Holdings as its non-executive director and chair of the digital and technology committee. It said Maya has led organisations with technology companies such as Twitter, Samsung Asia and Conde Nast India. Prior to that, she co-founded and was the CEO of an e-commerce platform on the back of nearly a decade of experience in strategy and marketing with Schlumberger, Cisco Systems, Google and Microsoft Corp. Maya is also a renowned angel investor focused on early-stage venture capital in the areas of technology, food, agriculture, and related sectors in sustainability. She was also previously a non-executive director of Open Learning in Australia. "The Board is pleased to welcome Maya Hari, who brings a diverse and comprehensive worldview to the group. "Her experience in tech-drive high-growth businesses, digital transformation, international expansion and sustainability will bring a new strategic dimension to Axiata's efforts in digitalisation within a collaborative and inclusive culture," said Axiata chairman Tan Sri Shahril Ridza Ridzuan. 
Tags / Keywords:
Axiata
                                                                ,
                                                                                                appointment
                                                                ,
                                                                                                Maya Hari Shahril Ridza Ridzuan
 
Topic:
 


 Report it to us. Thank you for your report!  Copyright © 1995-
            

 Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)] Best viewed on Chrome browsers.  We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below We hope you enjoy this feature!