Highlights for the quarter ended December 31, 2022: Highlights for the year ended December 31, 2022: Parsippany, New Jersey, March 23, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Wireless Telecom Group, Inc. (NYSE American: WTT) (the "Company") announced today results for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2022. Tim Whelan, CEO of Wireless Telecom Group, Inc. stated, "We successfully executed upon our previously communicated strategic alternatives plan in 2022, closing on the sale of both our Microlab business and CommAgility business. We now have nearly $21 million of cash on our balance sheet, no debt or earn-out liabilities, and we believe we have successfully transitioned our business model to a focus on the single remaining segment, our Test & Measurement business." Mr. Whelan continued, "We are fully committed to our strategic alternative plan and unlocking shareholder value and we are in active discussions pursuing the completion of these activities. We enter 2023 with a position of strength as a streamlined business model, with the strongest balance sheet in our history. Our record capital position provides us with significant flexibility to conclude our strategic alternatives process while simultaneously investing in our technology roadmap and go-to-market strategy to drive revenue and profit growth. We do not expect to comment further or update the market with any additional information on the process unless and until our Board of Directors has approved a specific transaction or otherwise deems disclosure appropriate or necessary. There can be no assurance that the evaluation of strategic alternatives will result in any strategic alternative transaction, or any assurance as to its outcome or timing." Mr. Whelan concluded, "We are incredibly excited about the test and measurement market opportunity ahead and the traction we are seeing with our products in semiconductor testing, quantum computing and directed energy weapons applications. We enter 2023 with a significant increase in our backlog and a strong balance sheet and in the year ahead we expect to realize revenue growth, continued strong gross margins, reductions in operating expenses and positive cash flow from operations." Full Year 2022 Operating Results: Cash Flow and Balance Sheet ContactMichael Kandell 25 Eastmans RoadParsippany, NJ 07054Tel: (973) 386-9696Fax: (973) 386-9191www.wirelesstelecomgroup.com  Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Management believes, however, that certain non-GAAP financial measures used in managing the Company's business may provide users of this financial information with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and prior reported results. Certain of the information set forth herein and certain of the information presented by the Company from time to time may constitute non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have presented herein a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. The non-GAAP measures presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The foregoing measures do not serve as a substitute and should not be construed as a substitute for GAAP performance, but provide supplemental information concerning our performance that our investors and we find useful. The Company defines Non-GAAP adjusted operating income/(loss) as GAAP operating income/(loss) excluding non-cash amortization expense of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring expenses associated with our strategic initiatives process, non-cash stock compensation expense, restructuring charges and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. The Company defines Non-GAAP adjusted net income/(loss) from continuing operations as GAAP net income/(loss) from continuing operations excluding non-cash amortization expense of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring expenses associated with our strategic initiatives process, non-cash stock compensation expense, restructuring charges, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and gains or losses on extinguishment of debt. The Company defines EBITDA as its net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. "Adjusted EBITDA" is EBITDA excluding our stock compensation expense, restructuring charges, non-recurring expenses associated with our strategic alternatives activities, unrealized and realized foreign exchange gains and losses, non-recurring legal fees associated with arbitration, (gain)/loss on change in fair value of contingent consideration, gain/loss on extinguishment of debt and other non-recurring costs. A reconciliation of net income/(loss) to non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is included as an attachment to this press release. The Company views Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA, Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income/(Loss) and Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Income/(Loss) from Continuing Operations as important indicators of performance, consistent with the manner in which management measures and forecasts the Company's performance. We believe Non-GAAP measures are important performance metrics because they facilitate the analysis of our results, exclusive of certain non-cash and non-recurring items, including items which do not directly correlate to our business operations. The Company believes that Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA, Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income/(Loss) and Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Income/(Loss) from Continuing Operations metrics provide qualitative insight into our current performance; we use these measures to evaluate our results, the performance of our management team and our management's entitlement to incentive compensation; and we believe that making this information available to investors enables them to view our performance the way that we view our performance and thereby gain a meaningful understanding of our core operating results, in general, and from period to period. Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, such forward-looking statements may be identified by terms such as believe, expect, seek, may, will, intend, project, anticipate, plan, estimate, guidance or similar words. Forward-looking statements include, among others, include our expectations of revenue growth, continued strong gross margins, reductions in operating expenses and positive cash flow from operations. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could materially affect actual results, including, among others, the ongoing impact that the conflict in Ukraine and related sanctions have had and may continue to have on our business, supply chain, transportation costs, and our backlog; the impact inflation has had and is expected to continue to have on our business and the economy in general, our dependency on capital spending on wireless test equipment by our customers and end users; the impact of the loss of any significant customers; the ability of our management to successfully implement our evolving business plan; the impact of competitive products and pricing; our abilities to protect our intellectual property rights and our ability to manage risks related to our information technology and cyber security as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking information to reflect changes in assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events, or otherwise, as except as required by law. About Wireless Telecom Group, Inc. Wireless Telecom Group, Inc., comprised of Boonton, Holzworth, and Noisecom, is a global designer and manufacturer of advanced RF and microwave components, modules, systems, and instruments. Serving the wireless, telecommunication, satellite, military, aerospace, and semiconductor industries, Wireless Telecom Group products enable innovation across existing and emerging wireless technologies. With a product portfolio including peak power meters, signal generators, phase noise analyzers, noise sources, and programmable noise generators, Wireless Telecom Group supports the development, testing, and deployment of wireless technologies around the globe. Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.'s website address is wirelesstelecomgroup.com.  Wireless Telecom Group INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)(In thousands, except per share amounts)  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(In thousands, except number of shares and par value)  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS(In thousands)    RECONCILIATION OF NON GAAP MEASURES(In thousands, unaudited)