No option but to succeed: Yunus Election after vital reforms: Yunus Six banks still in shortfall despite BB support Tables turn, but police stick to old tricks Robi Axiata Limited has launched an exciting new campaign titled "Parbe Tumio"- celebrating the incredible resilience of the people of Bangladesh. The campaign is centred around the idea of overcoming obstacles and moving forward—a concept that not only resonates with today's generation but with the entire nation. Robi is proud to be the digital partner that helps people move forward on their journey. The leading digital services provider continues to maintain leadership in 4G market with 55.4% of the total subscribers being 4G users. This is the highest proportion of 4G users among all the operators in the industry. With the completion of a recent network enhancement project, Robi has also ensured 98.5% population coverage of its 4G network with a total of 16,073 4G sites countrywide. These initiatives have already significantly improved 4.5G internet experience by almost doubling data speed especially for 4G smartphone users. Our customers from across the country have achieved remarkable milestones in life with the power of Robi 4.5G Supernet. From setting up successful F-commerce businesses and startups, to learning new skills and even earning through freelancing, there are quite a few success stories nationwide that have been facilitated by the superior internet experience of Robi 4.5G. With this new brand philosophy, Robi is launching a TV commercial starring Safa Kabir as the lead protagonist. This is accompanied by nationwide branding as well as other promotional activities on all online and offline touchpoints, all of which are centred around this inspirational vision. Commenting on the initiative, Robi's Chief Commercial Officer, Shihab Ahmed said, "Robi has not only strengthened its countrywide 4.5G footprint and internet experience but also launched diverse range of digital services to facilitate the journeys of people towards success. This insight inspired us to introduce Robi's latest campaign, 'Parbe Tumio'." Robi's Chief Executive Officer, Rajeev Sethi said, "With this campaign, we intend to reiterate the indomitable spirit of the people of this country to move forward against all odds. Ensuring 98.5% 4G population coverage, we are ready and eager to company you in your life's journey towards success." Robi Axiata Limited ("Robi") is a public limited company, where Asian telecom giant, Axiata Group Berhad, based in Malaysia, holds the majority shareholding (61.82%). Aside from the public shareholders (10%), the global telecom giant, Bharti Airtel, headquartered in New Delhi, India, holds 28.18% of shares in the company. Robi is the second largest mobile network operator in Bangladesh creating new digital experiences for the people of the country. Through sustained investment Robi has created a robust telecom infrastructure to deliver innovation to all corners of the country. In addition to delivering its innovative digital products and services, the country-wide telecom infrastructure serves as the key enabler for the growing digital eco-system of the country. Be it urban or rural, people find their way to Digital Bangladesh through Robi. এই ঋণের পরিমাণ গত মার্চ পর্যন্ত ব্যাংকিংখাতের মোট বকেয়া ঋণের পাঁচ দশমিক ৭৮ শতাংশ।