We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The Axie Infinity price prediction shows that AXS faces the north as the technical indicator Relative Strength Index (14) moves to the upside. Key Levels: Resistance levels: $8.50, $9.00, $9.50 Support levels: $5.50, $5.00, $4.50 AXS/USD is currently trading around $7.00 and once it manages to cross above the 9-day and 21-day moving averages, the next target could be located at $7.50 which is the crucial level for the coin. However, a push from here could send the price straight to around $8.00 while the daily low could be spotted at the $6.50 support level. Meanwhile, if the current level fails to hold strong, the Axie Infinity (AXS) could slip below the lower boundary of the channel. The Axie Infinity price is now facing the uptrend as the coin moves to cross above the 21-day moving average. Therefore, if the buyers can put more effort and push the market price towards the upper boundary of the channel, AXS/USD could hit the resistance levels of $8.50, $9.00, and $9.50 respectively. On the contrary, a break below the lower boundary of the channel may bring the coin toward the critical supports at $5.50, $5.00, and $4.50. Looking at the technical indicator Relative Strength Index (14), Axie Infinity may begin to follow an upward trend as the signal line moves to cross above the 50-level, suggesting that the coin may trade bullishly. When compares with Bitcoin, the Axie Infinity price is attempting to cross the upper boundary of the channel to hit the nearest resistance at 2800 SAT. Meanwhile, unless the current market value effectively holds and the price ends up closing above it, there might not be any reason to expect a long-term bullish reversal. However, if the bears bring the coin below the 9-day and 21-day moving averages, it could refresh low under 2500 SAT, while a possible bearish continuation may hit the support at 2200 SAT and below. Moreover, if the Axie Infinity price crosses above the channel, it could hit the potential resistance at 3100 SAT and above. The technical indicator Relative Strength Index (14) also confirms the bullish movement as the signal line crosses above 50-level. The Axie Infinity (AXS) looks green today as the price hovers around the resistance level of $7.00 from the low of $6.50. However, a daily close above the 21-day moving average may increase the Axie Infinity price to $8.00. Meanwhile, traders should note that a consistent price increase could bring more buyers into the market if the bulls increase their positions. Nevertheless, AiDoge memes, on the other hand, are backed by blockchain technology. In turn, each meme is backed by a unique NFT. This proves beyond doubt that the user owns the meme. AiDoge memes, on the other hand, are backed by blockchain technology. In turn, each meme is backed by a unique NFT. This proves beyond doubt that the user owns the meme as almost $12 million has been raised in the ongoing presale. Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Azeez Mustapha is a technical analyst with many years trading experience in the stock exchange and crypto markets. He has broad experience in forex trading, coaching, and funds management. Azeez provides daily articles covering the price movements of major cryptocurrencies, and has contributed to a range of respected publications and trading magazines. Find his other published work on Learn2.trade, and… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The ...