Deciding where to place funds in the crypto market can be the biggest issue for many investors. As they all wish to yield gains in the long run, investing in some cryptocurrencies can be a huge risk since they lack any utility or growth potential. And that is why analysts claim that Uwerx – a new project currently in stage 2 of its presale – could soon soar and leave Axie Infinity (AXS) and Fantom (FTM) in the dust!  Axie Infinity (AXS) has been the talk of the town for a while now. Players can battle, gather resources, and create virtual kingdoms for their Axie Infinity (AXS) creatures through this blockchain game. Unfortunately, Google Trends shows a decline for Axie Infinity (AXS) dating back to 2021, indicating that the game’s popularity is also declining. This downtrend also reflects on the Axie Infinity (AXS) coin price. At this time, Axie Infinity (AXS) is trading hands for $7.18, a loss of 1.59% in the past day alone.  The trading volume has also gone down by a shocking 36%. Because of this, analysts have stated it will not be a profitable short-term coin as they predict a fall below $10 will happen soon.  Fantom (FTM) is a smart-contract platform that hopes to stand out with its scalability, customization, and security. After the initiative announced its intention to relaunch its native stablecoin, Fantom (FTM) soared by 40% in value during the past two weeks.  However, that Fantom (FTM) price movement was not maintainable as the coin dropped 5% during the past day. Fantom (FTM) currently has a price of $0.33 with a market cap of $1.5B. If the bulls manage to gain control, we could see an upcoming coin price of $1, but many experts are pessimistic. They believe the Fantom (FTM) coin does not possess any long-term growth potential to sustain a surge of that scale.  Uwerx is set to revolutionize the gig economy by introducing a decentralized, blockchain-based freelance platform. Unlike competitors, Uwerx will only charge a commission of 20%, making it an attractive option for both freelancers and investors. Additionally, the platform offers greater transparency and protection, as well as secure storage of records using blockchain technology. Users of the platform will also have access to WERX tokens, which can be used as a mode of payment and earned as performance-based incentives through gamification. Uwerx also features personalized matching, built-in collaboration tools, and social initiatives that promote inclusion and sustainability. As the freelance industry continues to thrive, Uwerx has a first-mover advantage and strong fundamentals. The project has been audited by reputable organizations and has locked liquidity for 25 years after presale, currently available at a low price of $0.0315. Investors have the opportunity to make significant gains in 2023 and beyond by getting in on the action now. Don’t miss out on this innovative and promising project—follow the links below to learn more and invest in Uwerx. Presale: invest.uwerx.network Telegram: https://t.me/uwerx_network  Twitter: https://twitter.com/uwerx_network Website: https://www.uwerx.network  If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... As cryptocurrency investors look ahead to 2024, MoonTaurus (MNTR) is gaining attention for its... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... The rise of child anxiety Based on recent academic sources, child anxiety appears to... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.