
  
		  
		  
		  
		 
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		
   April 26, 2023 (Investorideas.com Newswire) Public interest in cryptocurrency and everything tied to the digital landscape has seen exponential growth in recent years, garnering interest from long-term investors, traders, and global brands. The power of Web3 has been blurring the lines between physical and virtual, allowing people to earn money digitally through online games. Renowned crypto gambling experts Cryptogambling.tv conducted a study using data from Google Keyword Planner to reveal the most popular games to earn cryptocurrency based on monthly search volume from the last 12 months. Taking first place is Axie Infinity, with an estimated average of 535,202 searches per month. The Vietnam-based studio Sky Mavis developed the online video game, which is playable on Android, IOS, and Windows. It was launched in 2018 and revolves around a virtual universe where players can train pet creatures called "Axies". Axie owners spend time training their pets to increase their value over time, then sell them any time to other online players for Ethereum. Second on the list is virtual metaverse SecondLive, with a 496,313 average monthly search volume. The Windows, Mac, and Android-compatible game allows users to create their avatars and roam around an open virtual space where they can build their lifestyle of choice. Users can buy and sell items within the game's online marketplace using BNB (Binance Coin), which can be traded for other fiat currencies. Ranking in third place is Stepn, a move-to-earn mobile game where users can earn cryptocurrency by walking, jogging, or running, promoting a healthy lifestyle while also earning money. The Web3 app boasts an estimated average search volume of 478,794 on Google over the past 12 months. Virtual reality platform Decantraland is in fourth place with 382,000 average monthly Google searches. The web browser-based VR platform allows users to interact with various online games and activities and, more notably, buy virtual land using the in-game currency MANA. The game is powered by the Ethereum blockchain and uses the native MANA token, which can be traded for US dollars and other fiat currencies. RollerCoin is an online crypto mining game where users compete against friends to earn Bitcoin and many other cryptocurrencies, including Ethereum. It has ranked fifth with a monthly average search volume of 320,129 on Google over the past 12 months. Placing in sixth with 193,072 monthly searches on Google over the last year is The Sandbox, an Ethereum-powered game. The playable metaverse was launched in 2012 by mobile game development brand Pixowl allows its users to purchase virtual land and customize it with fun games and experiences. The community marketplace enables users to trade in-game assets using The Sandbox's native currency, SAND, which can be exchanged directly for fiat currencies. Illuvium has placed seventh on the list of most popular play-to-earn online games according to Google, boasting 67,372 average monthly searches. The role-playing sci-fi adventure game allows players to earn the in-game ILV token through various methods, such as capturing and selling the Illuvial creatures on the Illuvidex marketplace. Gods Unchained has ranked in eighth position with 57,846 average monthly searches on Google. It is a free-to-play online trading card game in which you can partake in battles using fantasy cards. Players can trade and purchase cards using the native GODS token tradable for real-world currency. Alien Worlds is landing in ninth place with 43,079 average monthly searches on Google. It is a virtual sci-fi game where players can explore space with other players and complete missions to collect Trillium (TLM). Finally, Voxies has taken the final position among the list of most Googled online games to earn cryptocurrency with 7,035 average monthly searches. The 2000s-inspired tactical RPG game allows players to compete with others in various challenges and quests to accumulate the game currency VOXELS and other tradable assets via the marketplace.  Commenting on the study, a spokesperson from Cryptogambling.tv said: "Axie Infinity's colorful theme and multi-platform compatibility have undeniably contributed to its popularity over the last few years. The game features cute digital creatures that can be trained and used for battle like those games on the retro gaming consoles. The only difference now is that you can earn money by playing it from your mobile device. The power of cryptocurrency has truly impacted the financial technology industry, and it is now impacting the gaming industry. People can now not only game for the joy of the experience, but to earn money for themselves." Credit: cryptogambling.tv. For more information contact Regan Kelly: regan.kelly@journoresearch.org More Info: Disclaimer/Disclosure: Investorideas.com is a digital publisher of third party sourced news, articles and equity research as well as creates original content, including video, interviews and articles. Original content created by investorideas is protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Our site does not make recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks, services or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investing involves risk and possible losses. This site is currently compensated for news publication and distribution, social media and marketing, content creation and more. Disclosure is posted for each compensated news release, content published /created if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and was published for the sole interest of our readers and followers. Contact management and IR of each company directly regarding specific questions. More disclaimer info: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp Learn more about publishing your news release and our other news services on the Investorideas.com newswire https://www.investorideas.com/News-Upload/ Global investors must adhere to regulations of each country. Please read Investorideas.com privacy policy: https://www.investorideas.com/About/Private_Policy.asp Get Great Trading Ideas and News Alerts   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Investorideas.com is the go-to platform for big investing ideas. About Us
Contact
Non Profits we support
Write for Us
Showcase
Domains for Sale via Investor Ideas
Disclaimer / Disclosure
News Syndication Partners
RSS Newsfeeds
Contributor Guidelines
Partners / Links
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Read Investor Ideas News on Apple News
Investorideas.com on Seeking Alpha 
Investorideas.com on Stocktwits  Advertise / Guest PostsServices - news and social media publishing, editorial content creation with ticker tag articles and podcast interviewsPublish NewsBecome A Featured Company Biotech Stock News
Cannabis stocks
Cannabis stocks newswire
Clean Energy News
Defense Stocks
Energy stocks
Gold and Mining News
Investing in Cryptocurrency and Blockchain
Investor Ideas, Trading Ideas and Stocks to Watch
Investorideas.com Newswire
Music Stocks
Renewable Energy Stocks
Sports Stock News
Trading Tech Stocks
Water Stocks WaterNewwire.com News
Research
Trade - list of stock trading apps
Job Search
Join our Investor Club
Login
Free News Alerts
420 Cannabis Investor Ideas
Marketplace/Crowdfunding/ICO's
Podcasts
Podcasts for Cannabis News and Stocks to watch
AI Eye Podcast
Cleantech / Climate Change Podcast
Exploring Mining Podcast
Crypto Corner Podcast
Gaming Podcast
Wine Down Wednesday
Videos
Social Media Platform & Investor Community
Play by Play Sports News and Stocks
Marketplace
Wine Down Corner Agriculture
Auto 
Beverage and Food
Biodefense
Biotech
Bitcoin/blockchain
Cannabis/Hemp
China
Defense/Security
Energy/Oil
Fuel Cell
Gaming/Online Gambling
Gold/Mining 
Homebuilding/Real Estate
India
Health, Wellness  and Sustainability
Luxury/Jewelry
Mining/Metals
Music /Entertainment
Natural Gas
Nanotechnology
Renewable Energy/Cleantech
Sports
Technology
Toys
Water
Wine © 2000 - 2024 Investorideas.com