


 Black Hat, the producer of the cybersecurity industry’s most established and in-depth security events, today announced the successful completion of the in-person component of Black Hat USA 2023. The event welcomed more than 22,750 unique attendees, with 19,750 joining in-person at the Mandalay Bay Convention Center in Las Vegas, while more than 3,000 registered for On-Demand Access to the event.  Security professionals from 127 countries registered to attend the event and experience firsthand the latest in research, development, and trends in Information Security (InfoSec), through 92 deeply technical hands-on Trainings and 98 Briefings presenting the latest research and vulnerability disclosures. “We look forward to Black Hat USA every year and the opportunity to connect in person with our community, Partners, and Sponsors,” said Steve Wylie, Vice President, Cybersecurity Market Group at Informa Tech. “We appreciate everyone who makes the journey to Las Vegas each August to attend Black Hat USA, and it is our hope that all attendees leave the event feeling energized from making new connections and from learning actionable information and best practices from the greatest minds in the security industry.” Show highlights for 2023 included: Top Partners and Sponsors of Black Hat USA 2023 include: Titanium Sponsors: CrowdStrike, Darktrace, KnowBe4, Qualys, and SentinelOne; Diamond Sponsors: Armis, BlackBerry, Cisco, IBM, Palo Alto Networks, Sophos, Tenable, Trellix, Trend Micro, and VMware Carbon Black; Global Partners: Adaptive Shield, Akamai, Appdome, ARCON, Armis, Binalyze, Bugcrowd, Contrast Security, Corellium, CYBER RANGES, DataDome, INE, KnowBe4, Kondukto, ManageEngine, Snyk, Sonar, Swimlane, Synopsys, Veracode, and wolfSSL; Sustaining Partners: Akamai, Armis, Axonius, Cisco, Claroty, CrowdStrike, IBM, Kandji, KnowBe4, Lacework, ManageEngine, Microsoft, Mimecast, Pentera, ServiceNow, Snyk, Sysdig, VMware Carbon Black, Wiz, and XM Cyber. For more information on Black Hat events, please visit https://www.blackhat.com. About Black Hat For over 25 years, Black Hat has provided attendees with the very latest in information security research, development, and trends. These high-profile global events and trainings are driven by the needs of the security community, striving to bring together the best minds in the industry. Black Hat inspires professionals at all career levels, encouraging growth and collaboration among academia, world-class researchers, and leaders in the public and private sectors. Black Hat Briefings and Trainings are held annually in the United States, Canada, Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Asia. More information is available at: blackhat.com. Black Hat is brought to you by Informa Tech. About Informa Tech Informa Tech is a market leading provider of integrated research, media, training, and events to the global Technology community. We’re an international business of more than 600 colleagues, operating in more than 20 markets. Our aim is to inspire the Technology community to design, build, and run a better digital world through research, media, training, and event brands that inform, educate, and connect. Over 7,000 professionals subscribe to our research, with 225,000 delegates attending our events and over 18,000 students participating in our training programmes each year, and nearly 4 million people visiting our digital communities each month. For more information, please visit www.informatech.com. About the Publisher Gary Miliefsky, Publisher & AuthorGary Miliefsky is an internationally recognized cybersecurity expert, bestselling author and keynote speaker. He is a Founding Member of the US Department of Homeland Security, served on the National Information Security Group and served on the OVAL advisory board of MITRE responsible for the CVE Program. He founded and is the Publisher of Cyber Defense Magazine since 2012. Visit Gary online at: https://www.cyberdefensemagazine.com/ 
CyberDefenseMagazine

Follow

24,878
54,653

 
                    Cyber Defense Magazine - The Premier Source for IT Security and Compliance Information. https://t.co/748STKH6k0.                 🚨 New Episode Alert! 🚨Dive into the world of cybersecurity with Cyber Defense Radio and TV as host Gary Miliefsky interviews Dasha Davies, President of Stealth-ISS Group® Inc. @stealth_iss Discover proactive strategies to safeguard your digital assets! 🎧Listen:  12th Anniversary Top InfoSec Innovator & Black Unicorn Awards for 2024 are now Open! Winners Notified at CyberDefenseCon 2024... 

