SEMAIS President and CEO.   As corporations and federal agencies strategize and seek answers to reduce their risk state, improving areas that impact their cyber protection program becomes rewarding. It's well known that no enterprise is 100% risk-free, but transforming cyber risk into opportunities reduces current and future risk exposure. In the context of threats, exploits assault software applications and disrupt risk management programs. Additionally, systems continually change and can become openings for hackers' exploits. So, how can an organization take advantage of discovered risks, achieve a return on investment, improve visibility or increase readiness? Many will use a severity approach to identify and remediate risk. This is classic, but organizations can progress when utilizing risk discovery as a maturity tool. The outcome provides early opportunities to advance and reward their cybersecurity programs. A counter-argument will suggest that risk has no rewards, but through experience, risk discovery equals opportunities. The methodology is best understood when cybersecurity cultures are transformed. The word "transforming" is defined as a change in structure. Some examples are reorganizing a security program to remove older technologies or costly processes. When aligning cyber risk and rewards, transformation positions cybercultures to grow, mature and address "where we can improve." The improvements exist because organizations practice proper cyber hygiene. Every IT enterprise executes hygiene checks by internal staff members or third-party corporations. The process is initiated by scheduled requirements, cyber health policies or adverse events. Many cybersecurity professionals use the period to create green reports or play cover-up, which means they conceal vital data. The process has been around forever and operates as a standard practice within IT environments. The reported metrics are always positive, but the systems, applications or infrastructure devices have critical risks. Every CISO has probably faced this dilemma and questioned a report's accuracy. Just think about removing printers from a vulnerability report. The risk score may state 90% readiness, but it falsely represents the enterprise risk posture. Employee buy-in and commitment support a cybersecurity culture. The concepts also align with cyber risk programs because deficiencies are sometimes treated negatively. This happens because the culture defines risks as problematic and thinks they produce additional work and harm careers. An article posted by Harvard Business Review titled "Developing a Digital Mindset" discussed how "promoting buy-in encourages value." This strategy supports risk rewards but can be challenging since discovered risks are labeled as job placement. This problem state can be remediated by illustrating that security findings are not titled "Employee Termination." All too often, security deficiencies are held hostage and designed to extend correction periods or sustain employment. It may sound reasonable, but the "hostage takeover" strategy causes additional concerns or risks—such as system disruption. The hostage mindset can be remediated when employees think holistically and foresee the end state. This will require management to communicate its risk approach, how holistic security operates and that green reports reduce rewards. Typical thoughts projected, such as "Are we safe when green reports exist?" is a start. Last, management should adopt a cyber visibility strategy when meeting or identifying areas needing maturity. Every IT enterprise is vulnerable and has unknown risks. These issues are hidden, rarely assessed and tamper resilience and availability. When management stresses visibility, they have a strong return on investment and risk-reward when the mindset shifts to "Where we are most vulnerable" and "Are we tracking all assets and deficiencies?" Some tracking areas include exploits that provide gateways into the enterprise's critical resources, High-Value Assets (HVA) or public-facing vulnerabilities. Management could also refer to the DHS Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog. Visibility also has a deep reward with cyber tools. Industry cybersecurity tools like Brinqa, Splunk or Axonius automate risk profiles. Cyber defenders must be coached and influenced that these tools can help identify blindspots and demonstrate where risk reduction adds value. Many well-to-do cyber defenders have created green reports due to fears, so the tools can help remediate the concern and help visualize, prioritize and remediate cyber risks. The devices also provide a graphical representation of threats and explain their nature, impact and solutions, which helps to automate information. As stated before, employees may fear termination because of discovered risks, but the tools can automate their conversation—saving time, capital and identifying where improvements exist. Despite many industry solutions to driving risk rewards, the hacker mentality carries the most weight. Cyber defenders can benefit greatly when they mirror a hacker's environment. Producing green reports supports hackers' aggression and tactics. Transforming the mindset works well with this concept. The hacker mentality becomes a solution when a security culture changes and searches for value-based practices. It transitions cyber defenders to think: "How would a hacker succeed?" or "Does this support hackers tactics?"Additional benefits such as true risk analysis, resilience, availability and cyber hygiene become successful and transition risks into rewards. With different risks developing and organizations struggling to counter hackers' tactics, a risk-based culture provides the best benefit. Cybersecurity fears, employee termination and repercussions hinder security development and risk management. This even affects a CISO reporting its internal security program or security gaps to board members. Despite the problems, working closely with technical teams to drive value is very actionable. In addition, the cybersecurity community has to build risk-based cultures through workforce training, meetings and employee onboarding. This is a holistic effort that ensures the risk-ward methodology is operating. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 