


Publisher - India Education news, Education in India, Global Education, Universities news, Colleges, Career Options, admission, jobs, examinations, Exam results, University News, Education News

   Robotix USA|India and AI World School successfully organized a mega-training workshop, “Robotics and AI Workshop 2023,” in association with Rockcity Sahodaya for students of CBSE, TN Schools on February 11, 2023, at BVM Global School, Trichy. Tamilnadu, India Sastra University was the technical partner for this event. The workshop witnessed the enthusiastic participation of 150 students (from grades 4 to 9 and 11) who came from 14 different schools. All of them got hands-on training experience with AI and robotics. Specialized training professionals from Chennai imparted training to the school students under the leadership of Mr. Suresh Gurunathan, Vice President, Robotix, and Mr. Dhanasekhar, Head of Training, Robotix. Students were given training on STEM technologies, AI and coding robots, virtual reality, and VR kits. They were also introduced to various online courses in AI. The high school students explored the AI Kit from Robotix and learned autonomous vehicle technologies like platooning. One of the most notable aspects of this workshop was that the majority of schools represented were from Tier 2 cities such as Trichy.Robotix, through this workshop, successfully reached the rural areas and connected them with advanced technologies. Not just students, but this workshop had something for the teachers as well. An orientation on how to teach AI to students as per the CBSE guidelines was given to the teachers who came along with the students. Ms. Kalaivani, Principal of Trichy BVM Global School, presided over the felicitation function and awarded prizes to the winners. The chairman of Robotix and AIWS, Mr. Ramana Prasad, stated that the goal of this workshop was to provide education, motivation, and knowledge about technical breakthroughs. With the rising relevance of intelligent applications in our lives, there has never been a greater need for understanding of how AI and robotics systems function. Mr. Prasad was overjoyed to see so many children participate, especially from schools in a Tier 2 city like Trichy.  Prev Post				 Lentra forays into Southeast Asia; aims to reach $100M in ARR by 2024 Next Post  Technical University of Denmark: Future ‘Power-to-Xperts’ can pave the way for new Danish business success story  

				J.D. Birla Institute NSS Volunteers Celebrate Rakhi with Underprivileged Children			

  

				Five-Day National Workshop on India’s National Security and Disaster Management…			

  

				Sarbananda Sonowal makes this year’s Rakshabandhan special for ministry…			

  

				Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh Urges Socio-Religious Organizations to Combat Drug…			

 Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you.