This story appears in the June 2023 issue of Forbes Asia. Subscribe to Forbes Asia In early May, one of the Philippines’ biggest companies saw a historic change in leadership when Lucio Tan III, just 30, was named president of the LT Group, a publicly traded Manila-based firm with a roughly $2 billion market value. Named for his grandfather, billionaire Lucio Tan, the company is among the most diversified in the country. Its divisions include beer, liquor and property businesses, along with a controlling stake in Philippine National Bank, a joint venture in a cigarette maker and a stake in a sugar refinery. Separately, Tan must also look after the family’s interests as the newly appointed president of PAL Holdings—the biggest shareholder in the country’s flag carrier Philippine Airlines—as well as in related firm airport-services provider MacroAsia. For Tan, the stakes are high. He must find fresh growth drivers for LT Group as profits from its core cigarette-making business decline. The new position also has personal significance, as Tan is seen as next in line for the top leadership role held by his grandfather, 88, who is chairman. The two Tans are close, with the younger Tan living with his grandparents in the Metro Manila suburb of Quezon City. He is succeeding his uncle Michael Tan, 57, who had held the presidency since 2010, and who continues to hold the presidency of the company’s brewery division as well as other titles. (Michael declined to comment for this article.) Of his uncle, Tan says: “We’ve had a very professional relationship with each other.” Lucio Tan III is seen as next in line for the top leadership role held by his grandfather, Lucio Tan (right), who is chairman. One hurdle that Tan wants to tackle is the company’s P/E ratio, which is just 4.2, while similar large diversified firms such as Ayala Corp., JG Summit and SM Investments all trade at double-digits of 15 or higher, a sign of investors’ low rating of the firm. Just after Tan’s appointment to the presidency, LT Group released first quarter results showing net profit was down 2% to 6.4 billion pesos ($115 million), after climbing 24% to a record 25 billion pesos in 2022. “We need to consistently perform and hit, or even exceed, our targets ... in order to improve investor sentiment,” Tan says in an interview in the private dining room of Century Tsukiji, a Japanese restaurant in the family-owned Century Park Hotel in Manila and one of his grandfather’s favorite dining spots. Tan’s background doesn’t naturally point toward him heading up a diversified Philippine company. Four years ago he was forging a career in Silicon Valley—at the time working as a software engineer at ride-hailing company Lyft, after earning a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and a master’s degree in computer science from Stanford University. Tan chose his love for science and engineering over a business degree. He has no regrets, saying that background has proven invaluable given tech drives global business and it has sharpened his analytic skills. “The engineering mindset has really trained me to take a problem and be able to decompose it, and then figure out how to methodically solve these smaller problems to solve the overall more complex problem … that helps enable me to tackle the challenges that I face on a day-to-day basis,” he says. Back then, he had hoped to gain more experience in Silicon Valley in either a more senior role at a tech firm or at a startup. But it was the sudden death of his father, Lucio “Bong” Tan Jr., at age 53 from a brain herniation in 2019 that prompted a premature return to the Philippines. Bong had been heir apparent and was president at both LT Group’s Tanduay Distillers and separately listed PAL Holdings at the time of his death. “Coming back has always been part of the plan,” says Tan. “It was definitely rushed by several years, maybe even a decade.”  Sugarcane, a key ingredient for making rum, to be delivered to Tanduay's distillery in the central Philippine island of Negros. Upon his return, he took charge of his late father’s posts in December 2019 in the Tanduay division. He quickly turned the 169-year-old company, best known for its Tanduay rum, into LT Group’s fastest-growing business by introducing new efficiencies in logistics and production. Tanduay’s net profit more than doubled to a record 1.5 billion pesos in 2022 from 2019. Tan also drove digital initiatives such as an e-commerce platform called shots.ph, where customers could purchase liquor online. It became an additional sales channel, which was particularly successful during the pandemic. This initiative, along with a push into mixed drinks, helped Tanduay cement its leadership in the Philippines, boosting its market share to 31% in 2022 from 27% the previous year.  In May 2022, Tan was named vice chairman and chief operating officer of LT Group as an intermediate step towards his current post. His management strategy now as president is to rotate through the company’s various businesses, devoting one day each week to focus on a single operation. “You have to slowly learn how our businesses run,” Tan recalls his grandfather telling him upon his return to Manila. “It takes a lot of time. You need to be patient.” The elder Tan says by email: “I am confident that [Tan] … will be able to infuse new methods of doing business that will further enhance overall performance and strengthen synergies across businesses.” Now the question is whether his grandson can replicate his success at Tanduay with the rest of the company. The younger Tan says one of his goals is to “diversify the group’s portfolio in order to reduce overall risk and generate new sources of revenue.” He adds: “We are open to taking advantage of investment opportunities,” but declines to identify potential targets, saying he wants to maximize the value of existing operations before venturing into new businesses. “The legacy businesses can continue to run on their own since [they] have been around for a long time,” says Joey Roxas, president of Philippine brokerage Eagle Equities. “The challenge is how to grow [them].”   The company’s crown jewel has long been cigarette maker Philip Morris Fortune Tobacco, a 50/50 joint venture with the U.S. tobacco giant. This division has a 62% share of the Philippine cigarette market and remains a cash cow for the conglomerate, but its contribution to company earnings has dwindled to 61% of net profit in 2022 from 86% the year before. Sales of cigarettes through legal channels in the Philippines halved to about 52 billion sticks in 2022 from a decade ago, when the government started imposing higher excise taxes, which in turn fueled the sale of cheaper smuggled cigarettes. Although the spirits and tobacco businesses are key drivers for LT Group, Tan and his grandfather are only occasional drinkers and neither smoke. Rising profits from the liquor and beverage businesses could help offset declining contributions from cigarette manufacturing. While Tanduay’s net profit slipped 23% to 258 million pesos in the first quarter due to higher raw materials costs, Tan says he is “cautiously optimistic” growth will recover. The company aims to increase revenue by boosting exports of its rum, currently just 1% of total revenue, to 5% by 2030. In the past, the company focused on the U.S., where there is a large Philippine population as well as being a large rum market. Tan plans to step up brand-building efforts there, which have included sponsoring NBA teams such as the Golden State Warriors, the Brooklyn Nets and the Milwaukee Bucks. The company also sells its Tanduay rum to Australia, Canada and some European countries. Its shipments to Southeast Asia so far have been confined to Singapore, but Tan says he wants to target other countries in the region. Leveraging its heritage and tapping export markets is the right strategy, says Roberto Galang, dean of John Gokongwei School of Management at Ateneo de Manila University. At home, Tanduay is importing new drinks such as Scottish Legacy whisky and promoting its rum as a premium mix product. This is in the face of intensifying competition from international players such as Diageo, which recently acquired Philippine rum maker Don Papa, and Brown-Forman’s Jack Daniel’s, which launched a ready-to-drink whisky and cola drink in partnership with Coca-Cola Beverages Philippines in April. Asia Brewery, which makes its own beer and other beverages as well as bottling international brands such as Heineken and Tiger, is another bright spot for LT Group. The company’s net profit gained 22% to 580 million pesos in 2022 as demand for its products, which also include Cobra Energy Drink and Absolute mineral water, soared when Covid-19 restrictions were lifted in the Philippines.   Then there is the company’s holding in Philippine National Bank (PNB). Reviving earnings there is an urgent and huge challenge for Tan amid mounting bad debts and a deepening economic slowdown. The lender is the country’s sixth largest by market cap and has over 600 branches nationwide. It posted a 63% slump in net profit to 11.5 billion pesos for 2022 from the previous year. The drop reflects provisions for nonperforming loans, which offset higher net interest income and exceptional gains from sales of foreclosed properties. While the bank’s net profit jumped 71% to 4.8 billion pesos in the first quarter from a year ago as fee-based and net interest income improved, some analysts remain skeptical. “The absence of expected one-off gains from the sale of foreclosed assets, coupled with a tepid lending outlook, drags our full year 2023 net profit forecast down,” says Rachelleen Rodriguez, an analyst at Maybank Securities in the Philippines, in a research note in April. The percentage of the lender’s gross NPLs to total loans stood at more than 6% as of end-2022, the highest among the country’s top banks. Tan hopes to boost digital technologies to make its financial services more accessible while also tapping PNB’s extensive branch network to boost consumer lending. PNB plans to free up capital to fund lending activities with the proposed listing in February 2024 of its real estate arm, PNB Holdings, which has prime commercial properties valued at about $1 billion. That could also boost the company’s exposure to property, now held under Eton Properties, which makes up a relatively small part of overall operations. A Philippine Airlines A350-900 taking off. The carrier has ordered nine A350-1000 long-haul jets from Airbus, estimated be worth over $3 billion based on list prices, to modernize its fleet as earnings continued to recover in the first quarter.  Elsewhere in the family’s portfolio, Tan is looking for a turnaround at its airline as the global travel industry bounces back from the Covid-19 slump. “With PAL earnings recovering, [Tan] can focus on improving the synergies and profitability across LTG,” Galang says. Tan’s grandfather has pumped more than $2 billion into PAL to keep the debt-laden airline afloat in the past three decades. His most recent investment of $505 million helped the company swiftly exit U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings at the end of 2021, just three months after filing a restructuring plan.   PAL posted an operating profit of $297 million in 2022—its first full year in the black since 2019 as revenue more than doubled to $2.6 billion as travel rebounded—after canceling $2 billion in debt, retrenching about 30% of its workforce and downsizing its fleet. Its sister company, MacroAsia, also saw a return to profit on a doubling in revenue. “It was only through this unprecedented pandemic situation that we were able to push the hard reset button on our [PAL] fleet,” says the younger Tan. “Usually when you have a plane, you’re stuck with it for a long period of time. Because of the pandemic … we were able to return a significant amount of aircraft.” The recovery continued in the first quarter when the flag carrier’s operating profit quadrupled to $135 million, bolstering PAL’s fleet expansion plans. In May, in a further sign of confidence, PAL agreed to buy nine long-haul A350-1000 jets from Airbus, which, based on the list price for the aircraft, could cost more than $3 billion. It also secured the rights to buy three more of the planes to allow for future extension of its route network. Delivery of the jets, which will be used on direct flights to North America, will start in the fourth quarter of 2025. Tan’s grandfather, who sports the nickname Kapitan, was born into humble means in Fujian Province, China. While he was still a young boy, his family migrated to the Philippines, where he worked as a janitor and later as a chemist at a cigarette factory while studying chemical engineering at the Far Eastern University in Manila. He founded Fortune Tobacco in 1966 and turned it into the country’s dominant cigarette maker, gaining market share with low-priced brands. Kapitan expanded into banking in 1977 and beer making in 1982. He acquired Tanduay in 1988 and emerged as the controlling shareholder of PAL in 1995. Today his estimated net worth is $2.4 billion, according to the Forbes real-time billionaire rankings. Apart from steering the family businesses, the younger Tan must navigate the nuances within the huge Tan clan, some members of which hold positions in the family businesses. Tan says his relatives are supportive and he gets constant guidance from his grandparents, who he sees on most days when in town. “It’s good that the leadership transition is happening now,” says Galang. “Chairman Lucio Tan can still help resolve any conflicts that may arise.” At the center of the transition, the heir apparent likes to regain focus and reduce stress with a regular exercise routine, despite a packed schedule. Just after the interview for this article, Tan headed for a workout at the gym. “Exercise is very important,” he says. “It helps me clear my mind … especially when there are decisions I’m mulling over.”  