Top-reviewed stereo pairs for every desk and budget 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Whether we use them more for work, gaming or booking our next holidays, laptops or PCs have become ideal ways to listen to music, whether that's via hi-res digital file downloads, CD rips or, most likely nowadays, streaming services. Unfortunately, the speakers built into them are, just like those integrated into TVs, far from ideal – weedy, insubstantial and quite frankly not good enough for you. So if you want to understandably boost your desktop audio setup and would prefer computer speakers to a wired headphones and DAC combo, you've come to the right place. If you don't have the space or budget to assemble a dedicated hi-fi system in your office, let alone your main living area, a pair of neat desktop stereo speakers to flank your machine or sit on a nearby shelf is the answer. PC gamers should also consider a proper upgrade to help them get fully immersed in the on-screen action. These computer speakers all have amplification built-in (making them active or powered), but take note of the connections and specs that suit your desktop system best, particularly if you would benefit from Bluetooth and hi-res audio support.  Having been thoroughly tested by What Hi-Fi?'s expert review team, the best computer speakers below will fire out your Tidal or Spotify playlists and YouTube videos with much more skill than your PC/laptop could, and they won't take up too much room or cost the earth, either. Best overall  If you’re looking for a great-sounding but affordable pair of computer speakers, these Elacs will be perfect for you. Read more below  Best compact  These petite speakers are beautifully made, will fit in anywhere, and sound much bigger than they look – a smart addition to any desktop. Read more below Best budget  Packed with connectivity options, you’ll be hard pushed to find a more versatile budget option than these unfussy Q Acoustics. Read more below Best system  A stylish, compact pair of speakers that boast all the wi-fi streaming smarts you will likely need – an ideal all-in-one system for your desktop. Read more below Best audiophile  A sonically sophisticated stereo pair that performs as well as any comparably priced amplifier and speakers separates pair. Read more below I'm the Hi-Fi and Audio Editor of What Hi-Fi? and have tested dozens of speakers of all types and budgets during my decade of reviewing. The best desktop speakers should still sound great for the money, and while a given model's dimensions and input options are important, you're wasting your cash if you don't prioritise decent sound - otherwise, you may as well just stick with the speakers built into your laptop or computer. On this list, we've chosen primarily hi-fi-grade desktop/bookshelf models which, thanks to their varied connectivity options, can be hooked up to your PC or laptop with ease. That way, you're still getting compactness and convenience without sacrificing great sound.  Our expert review: The Elac Debut ConneX DCB41 are compact powered speakers, taking up so little space that they can fit neatly on a desktop flanking your computer. If needs be, though, the talented pair can also work in a decently sized room next to your TV or stereo system. Playback from multiple sources such as your computer and smartphone is possible thanks to Bluetooth aptX streaming, and USB type B input (which plays hi-res tracks up to 24-bit/96kHz). You can even use the Elacs as a decent soundbar alternative thanks to their HDMI ARC and optical inputs and there's even a moving magnet phono stage built in so you can plug in a turntable and get your records spinning. Sonically, the Elac speakers provide a fine level of detail, and they organise that information into a cohesive and musical whole. Use the digital inputs and they're clear, balanced and insightful performers, while the understated way this system goes about its job is eminently likeable. The overall presentation is controlled and even-handed in the manner of Elac’s Award-winning Debut 2.0 series of passive speakers. These speakers happily fade into the background, letting the music take centre stage. We're big fans of systems such as this, and the Elac's combination of size, features, performance and reasonable price (£529 / $595 / AU$900) means they get our hearty recommendation. Read our full Elac Debut ConneX DCB41 review  Our expert review: If you're pushed for space, you won't find a finer pair of compact, powered, computer speakers than Ruark's MR1 Mk2. Those handcrafted wooden cabinets are beautifully made, the speakers are good to use, and they’re the perfect petite size to sit on either side of your laptop, and fit onto a small desk, bookshelf or TV stand – no wonder they're repeat What Hi-Fi? Award winners. You can connect over Bluetooth, optical or 3.5mm – easily and quickly – and hi-res audio is supported all the way up to 24-bit/192kHz. Those stylish retro looks are a huge part of the charm too, oozing more class than most of the cast of Mad Men.  Sound-wise, the MR1 are wonderfully musical and insightful, with subtlety and detail conveyed in a way that's both rich and rewarding. Their fluid dynamics, agile timing, punchy bass and natural way with voices all make them hugely enjoyable to listen to,  and the MR1 Mk2 sound lush and smooth while also being articulate. They convey the mood of songs faithfully, too – an impressive feat for a set of wireless speakers. The step-up in performance from the original MR1 model is impressive, making the Mk2 even more appealing than before at a very attractive price point. Quite simply, these are superb PC speakers for any space, and absolutely ideal for anyone looking to be smart with their cash. Read our full Ruark Audio MR1 Mk2 review  Our expert review: Versatile, simple to use, nicely put together and extremely affordable, the Q Acoustics M20 might not be the most compact pair of powered speakers on this list, but they offer such a versatile range of features that we'd certainly find a way to accommodate them on our desktop. The modern-looking units have a lot of useful connections on the back – TVs, CD players, turntables and laptops can also be wired to the M20 through optical, RCA line-level, aux and USB Type B connections, and there's even wireless Bluetooth streaming if you aren't a fan of wires. One speaker in the pair is the mains-powered 'master' and feeds the other through a supplied speaker cable. Crucially, they really sound the part, feeling full, loud, spacious and energetic. For affordable speakers that pack in so much, we're impressed with how refined and detailed they also manage to sound. Q Acoustics has made an unfussy, just-add-source set of powered speakers that we find impossible to dislike. With all of the amplification squirrelled away in the master speaker and the plethora of connectivity and placement options covered, the M20 are far more likely to become your entire music system than simply your new desktop speakers – and for this money, you’ll be hard pushed to better the sound quality with hi-fi separates. Well worth considering. Read our full Q Acoustics M20 review  Our expert review: The standard KEF LSX II speaker system was a certified What Hi-Fi? Award winner and a key entry in this very list. Now though, there's a slimmed-down, more affordable version of the LSX II, and we think it offers even greater value - if you can live with a few small sacrifices.  In terms of their size and shape, the new LSX II LT are practically indistinguishable from the standard LSX II, keeping the iconic tangerine waveguide and shiny Uni-Q driver array for which KEF is so well-known. The 11th-gen 11.5cm Uni-Q driver array, in which the tweeter sits in the centre of the mid/bass, is here too, with the Class D active speakers putting out a total of 200Ws - 30 of those to drive the tweeter, and 70 powering the mid/bass across each channel.  KEF has taken a winning formula and streamlined it beautifully. The key connectivity options - an HDMI ARC port for your TV, optical input, subwoofer output -  are all here, but unlike the standard LSX II, the LT only require a single mains lead plugged into the primary unit while the spare speaker takes power via a USB-C interspeaker cable. There's no aux input or the chance to have a wireless connection between the speakers, though, so if you really need those facilities, we'd recommend considering the full-fat KEF LSX II.  Sonically, though, the LT version doesn't miss a beat, so much so that it's almost impossible to tell the difference between the standard version and this "lite" iteration. The LT deliver punch, focus and a sharp sense of rhythmic propulsion without ever feeling strained or unbalanced. The speakers' profile is very marginally on the lean side, but never to the point at which you'd think they were thin, weedy or lacking in lower-end muscle.  Sonically superb and slimmed down without becoming overly compromised, the KEF LSX II LT feels like a really, really smart investment. Read our full KEF LSX II LT review If you want a versatile speaker system that you can pop on your desktop to boost your laptop, I'd happily direct you to the KEF LSX II LT. The great thing about the LSX II LT is that, like the Elacs above, there's an HDMI ARC connection, allowing you to plug the speakers into your TV and get cinematic sound without the need for a separate soundbar. Plus, if you can live without that aux input (RIP!), it arguably represents far better value for money than its slightly pricier LSX II sibling. You might care to look at our LSX II vs LSX II LT for a full comparison.  Our expert review: It’s difficult to think of an amplifier and passive speakers separates combo that could better these Acoustic Energy active speakers for the same money. These former What Hi-Fi? Award winners do everything with a flourish. They're pretty basic regarding set-up and function – just hook them up to your source via their balanced XLR or RCA inputs and you’re away. There’s no Bluetooth, but you can always affordably attach a separate module (such as the iFi Zen Blue) post-purchase. You'd need to invest in more expensive speakers and amplifiers to offer a marked improvement on these Acoustic Energy active speakers. Timing is spot on, the punch and drive apparent through all musical genres is thrilling, and the dynamic range is subtle and extensive enough to spotlight differing intensities of beats that can, texturally, be cluttered in other systems. There's fine integration and tonal balance too, with a maturity that's truly impressive. These speakers have been around for a long while (we reviewed them back in 2018), yet their continued availability is a testament to their class. With that said, you owe it to yourself to track down a pair and discover the AE1's talents for yourself. Read our full Acoustic Energy AE1 Active review When purchasing a pair of PC speakers for your laptop/computer desktop system, size will surely be a factor in your decision. All of the pairs of computer speakers that we've tested are inherently from the more compact end of the speaker market and better suited to being perched on a desk than the majority of stereo speakers. But it isn't just size that matters; one of the beauties of having speakers within your workspace is that they can connect easily to your phone or laptop. Some computer speakers can connect via Bluetooth so you needn't worry about cables trailing all over the place, while others need to connect over USB via a cable – not as convenient perhaps but offering stable and higher-quality transmission. Additionally, some computer speakers support wi-fi and integrate network streaming smarts, while others can connect to your TV and/or turntable to make for a more all-encompassing home system. Consider what connections and features you need, particularly if you want to connect something other than a laptop, and check them against the spec box of each entry in this best computer speakers list. Avoid opting for computer speakers with lots more features than you need, as you will only be paying for them and they may not sound as good as a comparatively stripped-back models around the same price (or perhaps even cheaper). What every pair of computer speakers above does have in common, however, is a class-leading performance at their respective price point, making them easy to recommend. Only have room for a one-box unit? Check out our best Bluetooth speakers guide. Thankfully, computer speakers or PC speakers are by nature pretty simple to set up. They are compact systems that generally comprise two boxes, or maybe three if they include a subwoofer. You'll want your right and left speakers to flank your computer, laptop or monitor – either at, or just above, head height if practical, and preferably slightly angled inwards towards your seated position. There's no harm in experimenting, of course. You'll want them sat on a sturdy desktop surface, though more substantial computer speakers like the higher-end Acoustic Energy AE1 Active above will invariably sound optimal on dedicated stands. If a small subwoofer comes with your speakers to form a 2.1 system, you should keep it as close to your speakers and seat as possible – but on the floor. After all, you don't want their low-end output causing the table you (or the speakers) are working on to vibrate when it is kicking out bass. We have state-of-the-art testing facilities in London and Reading, where our team of experienced, in-house reviewers test the majority of hi-fi and AV kit that passes through our door – including computer speakers that will fit and work on a desktop. What Hi-Fi? is all about comparative testing, so we listen to every pair of computer speakers we review against the current leader in its field to gauge how it compares to the best-in-class competition. We keep What Hi-Fi? Award winners, such as the Ruark MR1 Mk2 in this category, in our stockrooms so we can always put new products against ones we know and love. We are always impartial in our testing and ensure we hear every pair of computer speakers at their optimum in the scenarios they are intended for. We'll use them with different partnering source kit (phones and computers, for example) as well as play different types of music through them. Naturally, we give them plenty of listening time (and time to run in beforehand). Really, testing computer speakers is pretty similar to testing 'standard' speakers and soundbars, in that we are testing their tonality, left/right balance, vocal clarity and overall musicality (by which we mean their rhythmic, organisation and timing abilities). From all of our reviews, we choose the top computer speakers to feature in this Best Buy. That's why if you take the plunge and buy one of the products recommended here, or on any other Best Buy page, you can rest assured you're getting a What Hi-Fi?-approved product. You can read more about how we test and review products on What Hi-Fi? here. This is your classic "how long is a piece of string" question, but the good news is this: you don't have to spend a fortune for vastly improved sound.  Any of the models on the list above will give you vastly superior audio to that which you'll receive when simply playing through your laptop's speakers, say. Plus, it's a sound that will go much louder than your laptop or PC can manage, with far more depth, breadth and detail to boot. Bear in mind also that, because we've picked hi-fi level units, you'll be able to use any of the above candidates outside of a computer-based use case.  The best thing you can do, once you've decided on a budget (or even to help you decide on one in the first place) is to head to a proper dealership and listen to some speakers, starting at the lower end (see the Q Acoustics M20) and working your way up. If all you need is more punch, power and volume, the M20 will do a stellar job of providing everything that you need to suit your needs.  There's no limit to how much you can spend, but just bear in mind what you'll be using your speakers for. Paying thousands for a pair that will be playing from a crummy audio source (YouTube, for instance) is pointless, but if you're planning on using them a lot and for various tasks and duties, it can definitely be worth splashing a little more cash. For the purposes of this list, they're the same. That isn't true in the real world, of course, and you'll find many models out there that bill themselves much more as "computer speakers" than hi-fi-oriented bookshelf/standmount models, but we've chosen the latter for this list for several reasons.  Firstly, and most importantly, hi-fi speakers sound the best. Dedicated computer speakers are often designed for gaming or to be used for a single use case, whereas proper hi-fi models usually offer greater sonic fidelity and insight thanks to their hi-fi heritage. That's not always the case, but it's true for the units listed above. Second, decent hi-fi speakers should be versatile enough to hook up to your PC or laptop anyway. Most of the models above have USB and aux connectivity, not to mention a wider host of options such as HDMI, optical, RCA and XLR. That makes them flexible enough to serve as your laptop speakers or the centrepiece of a dedicated hi-fi setup. Third - and this might be personal preference - but we find many of the speakers on this list just look and feel a lot classier than many standard computer speakers. The KEF LSX II LT, for instance, is a wonderfully made system, with two deeply handsome units that will enhance your home before you've even switched them on. MORE: Best speakers: standmount, floorstander, desktop, active Looking for something more traditional? Here are our best budget hi-fi speakers Here are all our best speaker deals The latest hi-fi, home cinema and tech news, reviews, buying advice and deals, direct to your inbox. Kashfia is the Hi-Fi and Audio Editor of What Hi-Fi? and first joined the brand over 10 years ago. During her time in the consumer tech industry, she has reviewed hundreds of products (including speakers, amplifiers, turntables and headphones), been to countless trade shows across the world and fallen in love with hi-fi kit much bigger than her. In her spare time, Kash can be found tending to an ever-growing houseplant collection and shooing her cat Jolene away from spinning records. The latest hi-fi, home cinema and tech news, reviews, buying advice and deals, direct to your inbox. What Hi-Fi? is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 