You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Jul 1, 2024, 2:20pm Bitcoin mining software lets you use computer hardware to help administer the blockchain technology that runs bitcoin (BTC). As a reward, you can earn newly created bitcoins. Most bitcoin mining software is free and runs on all of the leading operating systems. Computer hardware—commonly known as mining rigs—can be as simple as a cloud computing option or as complicated as a highly customized system costing thousands of dollars. Forbes Advisor has surveyed the landscape to come up with this list of the best bitcoin mining software. 
                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                     Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the investing methodology for the ratings below. Featured Partner Offers 1 Coinbase 0.4% Maker Fee / 0.6% Taker Fee 200+ 1 Coinbase On Coinbase's Secure Website Developed in 2011, CGMiner is one of the oldest bitcoin mining software programs—and today it also lets you mine other cryptocurrencies, like Dogecoin and Litecoin. This highly flexible, open-source platform helps you scale up your mining operations rapidly, as it works with a variety of hardware options. CGMiner runs on a command-line interface, rather than a graphical interface. That means the platform has a steeper learning curve than some other mining platforms, but CGMiner remains the go-to choice for experienced users who deploy a variety of different platforms and devices. With CGMiner you can easily manage mining rigs remotely, via keyboard commands, allowing you to adjust settings on devices such as fan speeds for cooling. CGMiner runs on Windows, Mac or Linux. It’s compatible with various types of mining hardware, including application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and graphic processing systems (GPUs). The latest version, however, is only for ASIC hardware. If you plan on growing your mining operation by using a mix of different hardware, Awesome Miner will let you do so in one convenient location. You can even track your mining performance while away from your main computer. The Awesome Miner interface manages all your mining activity in one program, allowing you to manage multiple mining engines and control mining pools in the same place. In addition, it can manage several different types of mining hardware rigs. Through the dashboard, you can track information like your mining hash rate, fan speeds, the temperature of your devices and earnings. Awesome Miner runs on Windows and Linux, and it also offers a cloud-based web version that can be accessed via a browser on any internet-connected device. If you’re in a hurry to start mining bitcoin and don’t want to figure out a complicated program, EasyMiner might be the right fit. When you set up the software, it immediately begins mining cryptocurrency for you. It’s also an incredibly secure system. EasyMiner makes all your mining activity private while protecting your mined bitcoins from being stolen. When you set up EasyMiner, it starts mining cryptocurrency automatically. The tradeoff for this ease of use is that this program is mainly for less powerful central processing unit (CPU) and GPU mining capabilities. The EasyMiner dashboard provides graphical representations of your crypto mining workflows, making it simple to switch mining pools, change your network settings and check your crypto wallets. You are not limited to just bitcoin mining on EasyMiner. You can also mine for Litecoin and other cryptocurrencies. As market conditions change, so does the most profitable cryptocurrency to mine. Kryptex Miner, a Windows app, pays users for their computer powers. Users with gaming PCs can earn around $95 per month, while those with more expensive, powerful mining rigs can expect a richer payout. Kryptex Miner is meant to run in the background and automatically switch your equipment to mine the coins that will earn you the highest profit. It even offers a “lite mode” for when you want to use your computer for other things, like using the internet or playing games. Your mining work is paid in bitcoin or other payout options, ranging from Amazon eGift Cards to Visa/Mastercards denominated in fiat currencies. Be warned, payment comes with a few strings attached. For example, if you’re receiving your remuneration in bitcoin, there is a 0.00005 BTC fee, with a minimum payout of 0.00025 BTC. ECOS offers as simple an experience as you can get for mining bitcoin. It’s a cloud-based program that works online, so you don’t need to buy actual cryptocurrency mining equipment to run ECOS. Instead, you pay upfront for a mining contract, and through that, you lease bitcoin mining equipment and electricity through ECOS. At the start of the contract, you pick what you forecast the price of bitcoin will be over time, the duration of the mining contract, and the total hash power from your mining, based on how much you want to spend. ECOS will then estimate a profit, but the actual results will depend on the price of bitcoin as you mine. When you buy a cloud mining contract, you pay a fixed amount of money to use ECOS devices for mining. While your long-term profit margins could be lower than if you invested in your own equipment, it’s hard to beat ECOS as an easy mining solution. Bitcoin mining is the proof of work consensus mechanism that creates new bitcoins. Like many other cryptocurrencies, bitcoin is based on blockchain technology. This is a distributed ledger that tracks all past transactions, a decentralized system that’s not controlled by a centralized authority. To record transactions and encode them on the blockchain, bitcoin miners use their computers to solve complex math equations in order to earn the right to add new blocks to the blockchain. It takes an ever increasing amount of computing power to obtain the solution to these equations, known as a hash. Miners deploy computers, sometimes referred to as mining rigs, to solve the next hash. In exchange for their work, successful miners receive payment in the form of newly created bitcoins. As of March 2024, a successful miner receives 6.25 BTC for solving a hash. The bitcoin payout rate decreases over time, dropping in half roughly every four years. The next halving event is expected in April 2024. Bitcoin mining is the process of solving increasingly complex cryptographic puzzles to confirm that a bitcoin transaction has taken place. These puzzles are necessary since there is no central authority overseeing bitcoin’s ledger. Thus, there is no individual or group who can decide that any single bitcoin transaction is legitimate. Instead, with the help of cryptography, a group of miners must reach consensus about any legitimate transaction. Here’s how this works when, let’s say, Chris wants to transfer 100 BTC to Alex. The first thing Chris does is use a platform or service to initiate the digital transfer. Then, the following occurs: Obviously, this is not an instantaneous process. Each transaction takes approximately 10 minutes to confirm. If you don’t want to buy the equipment yourself, you could lease it and bitcoin mine through a cloud system. Another way to combine resources is by joining a mining pool. That’s when you share your systems with other miners through your mining software. If one person in your pool succeeds at completing the hash, you split the value of the bitcoin. This increases your chances of solving a hash (which is quite rare). The amount of overhead required for bitcoin mining will most likely cut into any profits one tries to earn by investing their time and energy in the process. “The probability that an individual’s mining rig can solve the algorithm that results in a successful block is infinitesimal. It’s almost like winning the lottery. Instead a lot of people join mining pools. Mining pools can be profitable,” says Wade Guenther, partner at Wilshire Phoenix. However, if you were to complete the puzzle solely on your own, as of March 2024, you would earn approximately $404,000 worth of bitcoin. The reality of an individual solving these puzzles, though, in today’s highly competitive mining environment is unlikely. The puzzles will more likely be solved by a mining pool, and the profits will be split among all the miners in the pool. If an individual miner can keep their equipment and electricity costs low enough, then joining a mining pool could still be profitable for them. –Didar Bekbauov, founder and CEO of bitcoin group mining company Xive When picking the best bitcoin mining software, it is important to take into account your individual needs and level of expertise in the mining space. For example, beginners may prefer: On the other hand, more sophisticated miners with more powerful systems may prefer customizable programs to utilize a wide variety of mining equipment, mining pools and more ways to tailor their mining rigs. –Taylor Monnig, senior vice president of mining, CleanSpark As of March 2024, bitcoin mining is legal in the U.S. If you live outside of the U.S., be sure to research the laws in your country before getting started. How much a bitcoin miner can make depends on a variety of factors, including the type of equipment they use, how much their fixed costs are and whether they are part of a mining pool. After all 21 million bitcoins are mined, no more bitcoins will be issued. Bitcoin miners may still be able to make money via transaction fees, however. Bitcoin mining can be complicated and difficult for an individual, and it is a competitive business overall. Be sure to do your research on the process before investing in any equipment or software. 
                David Rodeck specializes in making insurance, investing, and financial planning understandable for readers. He has written for publications like AARP and Forbes Advisor, as well as major corporations like Fidelity and Prudential. Before writing full time, David was a financial advisor. That added a layer of expertise to his work that other writers cannot match.            