California legislators say the Full Self Driving (FSD) name could lead a 'reasonable person' to believe the feature allows a car to become fully autonomous. California has banned Tesla from calling its software Full Self-Driving (FSD), Teslarati reports, as legislators said its name could lead a “reasonable person” to believe the feature allows a car to become fully autonomous.  The legislation, which takes effect in 2023, comes in spite of Tesla stating that FSD does not enable a car to become autonomous. FSD is sold as an additional feature for $15,000 or $199 a month. The feature is updated over the air. The law, sponsored by Democratic State Sen. Lena Gonzalez, bans California car dealers and manufacturers from “deceptively naming or marketing” a car as self-driving if equipped with partial autonomous features that still require humans to pay attention and handle the driving. A statement on Tesla’s website regarding the feature reads: “The currently enabled Autopilot, Enhanced Autopilot, and Full Self-Driving features require active driver supervision and do not make the vehicle autonomous. Full autonomy will be dependent on achieving reliability far in excess of human drivers as demonstrated by billions of miles of experience, as well as regulatory approval, which may take longer in some jurisdictions.” In 2017, Tesla CEO Elon Musk said he planned for a self-driving Tesla to be capable of a cross-country demo drive without the need for human assistance before 2018, but this has not been achieved thus far. In October, Musk teased a "wide release" for FSD by year's end. Last week, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) initiated two more special crash investigations into Tesla accidents where FSD is alleged to have been a factor in the crash. One of the crashes involved a Tesla Model S driver who was using FSD when the car started moving erratically, leading to an eight-car pileup on the San Francisco Bay Bridge, CNN reported. Meanwhile, Tesla is facing a class-action lawsuit that accuses the electric car maker of misleading the public by falsely advertising its Autopilot and FSD features. The complaint, filed in September in the US District Court Northern District of California, alleges that Tesla and Elon Musk, have deceived drivers since 2016, when it pledged to equip all cars with self-driving technology. Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I am interested in how technology and human rights intersect, and how technology shapes cultural trends. I have a master's degree in Investigative Journalism from City University London. Read Marco's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.