Komainu, a regulated digital asset custody service provider designed by institutions for institutions, has unveiled a significant enhancement to its collateral management platform, Komainu Connect. Hidden Road, the global credit network tailored to institutions, has joined this ecosystem, becoming the first provider offering digital prime brokerage services to participate. This strategic collaboration empowers the leveraging of digital assets in collateralization scenarios while ensuring the assets remain in secure, regulated custody. Komainu Connect, launched in April 2023, is revolutionizing collateral management by mitigating client counterparty risk. It achieves this by eliminating the need to store collateral with trading and liquidity counterparts while offering the capability to safeguard assets in secure custody. The addition of Hidden Road to the growing list of Komainu Connect partners follows the recent inclusion of the leading global crypto exchange, OKX, onto the platform. Nicolas Bertrand, CEO at Komainu, said: “Hidden Road is a key addition to our expanding collateral management network, representing another piece of the puzzle in bringing this much needed and institutional grade offering to the digital asset marketplace.” Michael Higgins, Global Head of Business Development at Hidden Road, said: “As we build out our offering to counterparties trading in traditional and digital assets, Hidden Road continues to cultivate partners that enable efficient and mature workflows with robust, modern approaches to risk and compliance. Thanks to its focus on security and regulation, Komainu Connect has the potential to unlock additional volume in institutional digital asset trading, and is a natural addition to our partner network.” Founded in 2018, Komainu emerged to provide institutions with a secure and compliant custody service for investments in digital assets. Launched in June 2020, Komainu currently offers custodial services to a diverse clientele, including exchanges, financial institutions, asset managers, corporations, and government agencies. The partnership between Komainu and Hidden Road reflects the growing demand for secure and efficient solutions in the digital asset space. By joining forces, they aim to contribute to the evolution of the digital asset marketplace, ensuring that institutional-grade offerings continue to meet the needs of a rapidly evolving financial landscape.   Unit No: BA857 DMCC Business Centre Level No 1 Jewellery & Gemplex 3 Dubai, United Arab Emirates. International House, 10 Admirals Way, London, England, E14 9XL. © 2024 FFEEDS DMCC. All Rights Reserved.
