In Chandler Fashion Center Mall, the smell of warm pancakes wafts through the food court, filled with mall staples like Panda Express and Jamba Juice. The aroma comes from a kiosk nearby, where a sign emblazoned with a giant cartoon peach reads "Fluffy Cakes." The kiosk opens at 11 a.m. But as early as 9:30 a.m., owners Kristi Jones and Fernando Munguia are usually there preparing batter for Japanese souffle pancakes. As the name would suggest, the treats differ from normal pancakes in their fluffiness. Rather than large, flat diner-style pancakes, Fluffy Cakes are also smaller in diameter and roughly 3 inches thick thanks to airy whipped batter. Fluffy Cakes opened over Memorial Day weekend, the first brick-and-mortar location of the couple's small business, which began selling Japanese pancakes and taiyaki fish waffles at weekly farmers markets in October 2022. Tacos, craft beer and fried chicken:33 new bars and restaurants now open in metro Phoenix Jones and Munguia didn't grow up in Japan. They've never even visited. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. "I really wish it was a better story, like 'I tried this pancake' or 'I took this trip to Japan and it changed my life.' Like, I really wish it was more than 'I saw a video on Instagram.' But that's really what happened," Jones said. In early October 2022, the couple was still living in California when Jones was laid off from her job as an office manager for a major clothing brand. Frustrated, she said to her mother on the phone one day, "I am not going back to a corporate job. I'm done. I'm going to start my own business." Scrolling through Instagram at home, she came across a reel depicting someone making Japanese pancakes and decided she wanted to try making them herself. The idea to turn it into a business had not even crossed her mind, she said. She merely thought they looked tasty and wanted to make some to eat at home. "Everything that could have gone wrong, went wrong. I burnt them. They were absolutely horrible. They were flat. I even burnt the pan," Jones said. "It just kind of became an obsession at that point. I guess because I was at a point where it felt like I was so off balance, and I didn't know what to do, so this random obsession over a pancake was like my distraction that then became an obsession." Jones started tearing up when talking about her mother, who was a single mom who immigrated from Mexico to the United States. Watching how hard her mom worked every day to take care of her family on a low income inspired Jones to put her all into everything she does, including mastering the art of Japanese pancakes. "She showed me that it's possible to push through all the adversity and all the people that have ever doubted you," Jones said. "There wasn't a dream that was too big." Through lots of trial and error, Jones figured out a fluffy pancake recipe that worked for her, using cookie cutter rings to keep the pancakes' shape. She and Munguia started decorating them with fresh fruit and Nutella. They decided fluffy pancakes could be the start of a new business, and Jones and Munguia packed up their life in California and, by the end of the month, had registered their business in Arizona: Fluffy Cakes, LLC. "The cost to start a business, it's your old life," Munguia said. "Ultimately, that's what it is, it's no longer being comfortable. It's no longer having the weekends off." "We were talking to our employee recently, and they're like, 'Oh, we need to stop for groceries,'" Jones said. "Fernando and I realized, we're not even at home enough to have groceries. Which is a crazy thing." Before opening their mall kiosk, fans of Fluffy Cakes could find the business at the Uptown Farmers Market in Phoenix and the Downtown Chandler Farmers Market on Saturdays. That first Saturday, the couple said, was "petrifying." They got little to no feedback, Munguia said. A few people came to check them out and try their pancakes, but after receiving their food, they would walk away and keep exploring the farmers market, leaving Jones and Munguia with no idea whether people liked their cakes. But by their third week selling at the farmers market, Fluffy Cakes had an hour-and-a-half long line. "That was when we finally got the feedback that it was good. And people were coming just for it. It felt so good," Munguia said. Fluffy Cakes got its big break when an Instagram influencer, Diana Brandt (@azfoodie), shared a reel with her nearly 300,000 followers. Jones said she did not know Brandt was an influencer when she served her at the farmers market, and only found out when she saw the Fluffy Cakes Instagram following skyrocket the next day. "I want to make it very clear that any influencer that's ever advertised us has never been asked and has never been paid by us, because I want a genuine, organic review or response. So, we didn't know who she was, she was just a customer," Jones said. The goal from the start was always to open a brick and mortar, Jones said. Her years of experience working for a clothing brand taught her a lot about malls and what kind of foot traffic can be expected, so she felt that it would be place to get some name recognition for Fluffy Cakes beyond their farmers market following. "Although it is a lot more risky, because it is a lot more pricey to be in a mall, I felt that the reward was worth the risk," Jones said. And although Fluffy Cakes has only been open at the Chandler mall for a couple of weeks, Jones has big dreams and is already thinking about what she wants to do next. "My next goal is more of like a small cafe-style restaurant," she said. "We are also going to be working on getting a small horse trailer, like a food truck in a horse trailer, so that we can do weddings and things like that. Definitely not a traditional food truck." Fluffy Cakes offers a small but delicious menu of souffle pancakes ($8.75) and taiyaki fish-shaped waffles ($5.50). Both come with the option of either Nutella or Biscoff butter, either spread on top of the pancakes or cooked inside the taiyaki. Customers can also purchase a loaf or half loaf of Japanese milk bread. Soon, the couple plans to add Purin, a Japanese custard pudding, to the menu. Fluffy Cakes is located inside the Chandler Fashion Center Mall, on the second floor near the food court and the Crayola Experience. Hours: 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday. Details: Chandler Fashion Center, 3111 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler. @fluffy_cakes_az on Instagram. What happened to PV mall?Here's all the restaurants moving in to the redeveloped space Reach the reporter at endia.fontanez@gannett.com. Follow @EndiaFontanez on Twitter. Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.