It's been a long battle back, but Michael Soroka will start on the mound for the Atlanta Braves today, on Memorial Day. The 25-year-old came off the mound to make a defensive play and suffered a right Achilles tear on August 3rd, 2020 versus the Mets. The long journey back featured a lot of rehab, a 2nd tear of the Achilles, patience, persistence, and time.  Soroka was in the mix to start the season as a part of Atlanta's starting rotation but a hamstring injury got in the way of his availability to open spring training.   Soroka posted a 4.33 ERA over his eight starts this season for Triple-A Gwinnett. His return and timing could be huge for the Braves. Atlanta is treading water waiting on the return of Max Fried and Kyle Wright from the IL and desperately needs more arms that can eat up innings on a weekly basis. Atlanta 32-21 - @ Oakland Miami 28-26 4.5 Off NYM 27-27 5.5 Off Philadelphia  25-28 7.0 Off Washington 23-30 9.0 @ LAD Braves Today's Lindsay Crosby headed up the game coverage yesterday in Atlanta's 11-4 series finale win over the Phillies. He pointed out Spencer Strider's incredible run. The righthander struck out nine in his six innings of work (with two hits, one walk, and two runs allowed), pushing him over the 100 strikeout plateau in only sixty-one innings.The previous record in the modern-era was Jacob DeGrom in 2021, who hit 100 strikeouts in 61.2 innings (although because of injury, was only able to pitch 92.0 innings and strike out 146 in the season). With Strider passing DeGrom, he's the fastest to hit 100 strikeouts in a season since 1893. Here's the full list of takeaways from the action. The Atlanta Braves travel to California for a three-game set with the Oakland Athletics. First pitch in Monday's series opener is set for 8:07 PM ET, with Michael Soroka the expected starter for Atlanta. The game broadcast, with Voice of the Braves Brandon Gaudin, is available inside Braves Country on Bally Sports South and is available on MLB.TV outside of the broadcast area. The radio call, with Ben Ingram, is available locally on 680 AM/93.7 FM The Fan or outside the Atlanta market on the Atlanta Braves Radio Network or MLB.com.  Check out Braves Today on Socials!Follow Braves Today on Twitter!Like Braves Today on Facebook!Check out the homepage for more Atlanta Braves News!Subscribe to Braves Today on YouTube!Get Exclusive Braves Merchandise from FOCO Zac Blackerby is the publisher of Auburn Daily and Braves Today. He is also the host of Locked On Auburn and the College Channel Manager for the Locked On Podcast Network.