
Greater Good
Science Center •
Magazine •
In Action •
In Education
 When researchers refer to the concept of social connection, they mean the feeling that you belong to a group and generally feel close to other people. Scientific evidence strongly suggests that this is a core psychological need, essential to feeling satisfied with your life. Indeed, humans are a profoundly social species; our drive to connect with others is embedded in our biology and evolutionary history. It begins at birth, in our relationship with our caregiver—and the effects of this relationship seem to reverberate throughout our lives. When we’re cared for as children, we’re more likely to have healthy, secure attachments as we get older.  What’s more, the pleasures of social life register in our brains much the same way physical pleasure does, and our knack for social connection is reflected in some of the most basic ways humans communicate—by subtle uses of our voice, facial expressions, and sense of touch. Scientists believe we are essentially wired to connect with other people because natural selection favored humans with a stronger propensity to care for their offspring and organize into groups.  “To the extent that we can characterize evolution as designing our modern brains, this is what our brains were wired for: reaching out to and interacting with others,” writes neuroscientist Matthew Lieberman in his book Social: Why Our Brains Are Wired to Connect. “These social adaptations are central to making us the most successful species on earth.” Which is more important: your spouse or your Facebook friends? A social psychologist says… New research is finding that oxytocin doesn’t just bond us to mothers, lovers, and… Gossip can be beneficial, if we do it the right way. A new book looks at why so much homelessness exists in the U.S. and what we can do as a society to reclaim our humanity. Getting other people to share their thoughts, feelings, and perspectives with you will help you learn, grow, and become a better person. This month, give and receive love.  Three new studies look at what teens are curious about and what kind of responses they hope for in talking with friends and family. Research suggests that savoring moments of connection can make us feel good and enhance our relationships—particularly for Latinos. A new book argues that, to be healthy, we should prioritize our social health as much as our physical and mental health. Decades of research suggest that the quality of our social ties might be the single biggest predictor of our well-being. Social connections are sometimes called “social capital” for good reason: They are a valuable resource in life, creating moments of positivity and fun, supporting us through good times and bad, and exposing us to new ideas and new people. If we cultivate healthy connections, the research promises a longer, happier, and more prosperous life.   “Resonant relationships are like emotional vitamins, sustaining us through tough times and nourishing us daily,” writes Daniel Goleman in Social Intelligence: The New Science of Human Relationships. Here are some of the research-backed benefits of social connection: A new book looks at why so much homelessness exists in the U.S. and what we can do as a society to reclaim our humanity. Getting other people to share their thoughts, feelings, and perspectives with you will help you learn, grow, and become a better person. This month, give and receive love.  Three new studies look at what teens are curious about and what kind of responses they hope for in talking with friends and family. Research suggests that savoring moments of connection can make us feel good and enhance our relationships—particularly for Latinos. A new book argues that, to be healthy, we should prioritize our social health as much as our physical and mental health. Although we are wired to connect with others, we don’t always prioritize social connection in the midst of our busy lives. No matter who you are, there are likely ways that you could grow your social network, build deeper connections, or cultivate healthier relationship habits.  Here are some specific, science-based activities for cultivating connection from our website Greater Good in Action:  Social connections are tied up with other keys to well-being. Cultivating gratitude, empathy, altruism, compassion, and forgiveness will not only enhance your personal well-being but also benefit your relationships at work and at home. Here are some more tips for having healthier social connections. A new book looks at why so much homelessness exists in the U.S. and what we can do as a society to reclaim our humanity. Getting other people to share their thoughts, feelings, and perspectives with you will help you learn, grow, and become a better person. This month, give and receive love.  Three new studies look at what teens are curious about and what kind of responses they hope for in talking with friends and family. Research suggests that savoring moments of connection can make us feel good and enhance our relationships—particularly for Latinos. A new book argues that, to be healthy, we should prioritize our social health as much as our physical and mental health. A new book looks at why so much homelessness exists in the U.S. and what we can do as a… How strong are your social connections, online and off? Barbara Fredrickson explains how shared positive emotions make us happier, healthier, and more connected. With the U.S. election swiftly approaching, the political divide can feel overwhelming. But what happens when we recognize the limits of our knowledge? The Greater Good Science Center studies the psychology, sociology, and neuroscience of well-being, and teaches skills that foster a thriving, resilient, and compassionate society. 
© 2024 The Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley
 Become a subscribing member today. Help us continue to bring “the science of a meaningful life” to you and to millions around the globe.