Share Twitter owner Elon Musk sparked outrage in the media after journalists from CNN, The New York Times and other outlets were temporarily locked out of their Twitter accounts. Twitter continues to undergo changes with Elon Musk taking the helm.   His latest directive is banning accounts whose sole purpose is to promote other social media sites such as Facebook, Instagram, Mastodon, Truth Social, Tribel, Nostr and Post. Contents containing such links and usernames to other social media sites will also be banned.  "We recognize that many of our users are active on other social media platforms," the company tweeted Sunday. "However, we will no longer allow free promotion of certain social media platforms on Twitter." RELATED: Reporter suspensions widening rift between Twitter and media However, crossposting from other social media accounts will still be allowed.  Hours later, the company then created a poll to see if those accounts in question should be banned.  "Should we have a policy preventing the creation of or use of existing accounts for the main purpose of advertising other social media platforms?" the company later tweeted.  The latest terms and conditions from Twitter come amid several other changes with some sparking controversy.  RELATED: Journalists suspended from Twitter by Elon Musk ponder future of platform: ‘A big inflection point’ Aaron Rupar was one of several journalists whose Twitter accounts were suddenly suspended earlier this week with Elon Musk citing 'doxxing' as the reason. Rupar spoke with LiveNOW from FOX's Josh Breslow the temporary ban and what happens next. Twitter last week suspended the accounts of journalists who cover the social media platform and Musk, among them reporters working for The New York Times, Washington Post, CNN, Voice of America and other publications. Many of those accounts were restored following an online poll by Musk. The wave of suspended news reporters followed Musk’s decision Wednesday to permanently ban an account that automatically tracked the flights of his private jet using publicly available data. That also led Twitter to change its rules for all users to prohibit the sharing of another person’s current location without their consent. Many of the banned reporters had been reporting on the situation. RELATED: Checkmarks and labels: How to navigate Twitter’s latest tools Twitter has been engulfed in chaos since billionaire Musk took the helm, cutting the company’s workforce in half, upending the platform’s verification system, reinstating previously banned accounts — including those of white nationalists — and suspending journalists who've been covering him. This story was reported from Los Angeles. The Associated Press contributed.   All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX Television Stations