As the rapper faces ongoing controversy for his antisemitic remarks, Parler says both parties decided to terminate the deal in "mid-November." I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. The rapper Kanye West is no longer buying Parler, according to the social networking app.  On Thursday, Parler announced the deal had been dissolved at a time when West faces controversy for making numerous antisemitic remarks.  “In response to numerous media inquiries, Parlement Technologies would like to confirm that the company has mutually agreed with Ye to terminate the intent of sale of Parler. This decision was made in the interest of both parties in mid-November,” Parler announced over Twitter.  Parler, which has been popular with right-wing users and free speech advocates, didn’t explain why the acquisition was terminated. But since the deal was first announced on Oct. 17th, West’s reputation has plummeted. On Thursday, West appeared on the InfoWars show from notorious conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, where he repeatedly praised Nazis and Hitler.  “I love Jewish people. But I also love Nazis,” West said at one point.  For now, Parler has only said it “will continue to pursue future opportunities for growth and the evolution of the platform for our vibrant community.” West originally decided to acquire Parler after both his accounts on Instagram and Twitter were temporarily restricted for making antisemitic remarks. "In a world where conservative opinions are considered to be controversial we have to make sure we have the right to freely express ourselves," West said at the time.  However, the rapper is likely now facing financial troubles after several major sponsors, including Adidas, have cut ties with him. In a podcast earlier this week, West also reportedly said he owes the IRS over $50 million in taxes, which has resulted in four of his bank accounts being frozen.     So far, West hasn’t commented on the Parler deal dissolving. In a tweet on Thursday afternoon, he merely said: “I love the first amendment! Long live Ye! I pray to Jesus that Elon is for real…,” a reference to Elon Musk, who bought Twitter to prioritize free speech. Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.