Effective immediately, PAC Machinery Bags and Materials’ custom and stock pre-opened bags for automatic baggers will be produced with a minimum of 25% post-industrial recycled resin. This content was written and submitted by the supplier. It has only been modified to comply with this publication’s space and style.       The is part of a corporate commitment to sustainable packaging and an effort to decrease the company’s environmental impact. This decision was made as part of a continued focus on providing innovative, sustainable packaging options for the growing environmentally-conscious business consumer. These bags are used on automatic bagging machines to package products for a range of industries (industrial, automotive, e-commmerce fulfillment, and more). These initiatives are also being rolled out as PAC Machinery releases a new official company-wide sustainability commitment to sustainable packaging innovation. PAC Machinery Bags and Materials line of bags, unless otherwise requested, will now be produced using a minimum of 25% industrially-recycled, FDA-compliant content. Additionally, PAC Machinery Bags and Materials just committed to sourcing the corrugated materials from third-party, sustainable-certified vendors. These initiatives are also being rolled out as PAC Machinery releases a new official company-wide sustainability commitment to sustainable packaging innovation.  "We are thrilled to announce this exciting update to our products to do what is best for both the environment and our customers,” said Greg Quinn, General Manager, PAC Machinery Bags and Materials. “As an innovative company that is not only committed to our customers, but to a better environment for all, we are leading the way in sustainability in packaging. Expect even more big news later this year with our products, as we continue investments in green innovations,” Quinn said. PAC’s pre-opened bags are compatible and for use on any brand of automatic bagging machine, with competitive pricing and lead times.  Customers can still order bags made with virgin content upon request.   