All products and services featured are independently chosen by editors. However, StyleCaster may receive a commission on orders placed through its retail links, and the retailer may receive certain auditable data for accounting purposes. There are many reasons you may choose to buy a designer handbag. Maybe you love the designer and want to carry a piece of their art. Maybe you saw a celebrity carrying one and were immediately inspired. Maybe you are looking for higher quality materials and manufacturing or maybe, you honestly just want the brand name (totally valid). For any of the previous reasons, buying a designer bag typically comes with a hefty price tag which is why it’s important that the bag you pick lives up to the investment amount. If you’re in the market for a luxury bag but don’t want to drop thousands of dollars, I recommend shopping Senreve’s spring sale with luxury leather bags marked up to 70 percent off. More from StyleCaster J.Lo & Vanessa Hudgens Wore These $55 Chic Sandals That Are on Amazon These New Tinted Lip Treatments Help Smooth Fine Lines-& We Have a Discount Code Senreve is a luxury handbag company that values craftsmanship and innovation above all else—each bag was crafted with realistic, stylish women in mind. For example, the laptop bag can be worn as a backpack, crossbody or as a shoulder bag—all while looking chic. Whether you’re heading to the office or out on the town, Senreve has an elevated bag option for you. The best part? The price point isn’t a high as other designer brands, especially when you consider the spring sale. From now until April 3, Senreve is hosting a “Handbag Revival” on its website in an effort to work towards zero waste in production. While many big designers will literally burn leftover stock instead of putting items on sale, Senreve is making sure every last piece is sold for less, maximizing the quality of both your and your bag’s life. Click here to read the full article.  The “Handbag Revival” event includes Senreve’s most popular styles, all at varying price points. You may find a bag that’s been gently handled or some that are in perfect condition but without original packaging. At the end of the day, you’ll still be getting a high-quality, durable and fashionable leather handbag but at a more sustainable price point. Score! Keep scrolling for our favorite Senreve handbags included in the “Handbag Revival“. This everyday bag is made with Senreve’s best-selling pebble leather and comes in a beautiful shade of green. It can be worn cross-body, as a backpack or as a shoulder bag.  Price: $845   Buy Now    If you are anticipating spring and summer weddings hitting your calendar, you’ll need a versatile bag to get through them. This pouch works as a clutch or a shoulder bag with a chain strap.  Price: $775   Buy Now  I present to you, the ultimate work and travel bag. This brushed grey bag fits up to an 11-inch laptop or tablet and has plenty of compartments to store your notebook, pens, wallet, keys and anything else you may consider a daily essential.  Price: $925   Buy Now    This belt bag comes in the perfect yellow color for spring and would be the perfect thing to bring to any upcoming music festivals.  Price: $327 (Originally $545)   Buy Now    This mini bag will be your favorite everyday bag—it can be worn with the chain strap or even as a belt bag so you can work it into any of your outfits.  Price: $521 (Originally $695)   Buy Now      Best of StyleCaster The 21 Best Places To Buy Jewelry Online, No Matter Your Budget Black Tie Formal Wear: What It Means, What To Wear & More I’m Obsessed With This Boho Spring Dress I Got On Amazon For $40 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.