From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. Let's be real: there's always something at Lululemon that you'll end up wanting. Whether it's a butt-lifting pair of leggings or an always-sold-out viral accessory, the retailer never fails to deliver the goods, especially in regard to its Team Canada collection. One purchase I have my eye on: the Team Canada Future Legacy Mini Belt Bag. Dubbed the "perfect" on-the-go bag by reviewers, Lululemon's bright pink belt bag is the pop of colour that every wardrobe needs — and best of all, it's only $38. $38 at Lululemon Lululemon's Team Canada Future Legacy Mini Belt Bag is made from water-repellant fabric and measures just 7.1" x 1.6" x 4.1" — the perfect size for your phone, keys, and wallet. The bag, which comes with an adjustable strap, features easy-access interior/exterior pockets. Like everything from Lululemon's Team Canada collection, by purchasing the belt bag, you support Canadian athletes through the Canadian Olympic Foundation and Paralympic Foundation of Canada. Team Canada's Future Legacy Mini Belt Bag has earned a 4.2-star average rating from shoppers and praise for its size and quality. It's a "great little bag," writes one user. It's the "perfect size for [your] phone, credit card, etc." They say the bag "lays close to the body," which they "really like." Plus, it's "easy to lengthen or shorten depending on how you wear it." $38 at Lululemon The bag is "so, so cute!" says another shopper. "I absolutely love [it]," they write. "It's perfect for my phone and cards. I'm obsessed with the colour and size." Lululemon's mini belt bag is the "perfect size for necessities," echoes a third user. It's so "convenient" and makes a "great gift." However, while several reviewers mention the bag's "good quality," some say the brand could "do better." Dubbed the "perfect" on-the-go bag by Lululemon shoppers, the brand's Team Canada Future Legacy Mini Belt Bag is a convenient (and cute!) option for travelling, running errands, and hiking. However, while users say the belt bag is "so, so cute," not everyone was a fan. To shop more worthwhile picks from Lululemon, scroll below. $44 at Lululemon $109 $138 at Lululemon $48 at Lululemon $68 at Lululemon $298 at Lululemon $118 at Lululemon $44 at Lululemon $168 at Lululemon $42 at Lululemon Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 After nearly a year of challenges on and off the ice, Patrik Laine is ready for a fresh start. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death Khelif was Algeria’s first woman to ever win a gold medal in boxing at the Paris 2024 Olympics Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit