Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  BEIJING — More than two months since the ChatGPT craze hit China, a similar artificial intelligence-based product has yet to reach the country's population at large. Instead, the most well-known alternatives released by Baidu, Alibaba and others have limited access with waitlists — or restricted trials to business partners. In what has been compared to an "iPhone moment," ChatGPT reached an estimated 100 million monthly active users two months after launching in November. The AI-chatbot learns using big data and can generate everything from poems to business strategies in a human-like conversation. But ChatGPT, created by U.S.-based OpenAI, isn't available in China, where access to Twitter, Facebook and Google is also banned via the government's internet firewall. Beijing this month also released draft rules for regulating AI-generated content, with a public comment period until May 10. Those restrictions haven't stopped the Chinese press and social media in general from talking frequently about ChatGPT and AI tech. Some people tried to buy overseas ChatGPT accounts on Chinese e-commerce sites. Domestic companies rushed to release and test alternative products. Accumulating big data and machine learning experience are integral to the tech behind ChatGPT. So far, publicly available figures indicate similar AI products in China are not as widely available. Alibaba Cloud said Wednesday it received more than 200,000 requests from businesses to test the company's version of ChatGPT-style tech, called Tongyi Qianwen. The product was announced on April 11. One of those business partners, Kunlun Tech, launched the "Tiangong" on April 17 which can interact with users in a question-and-answer format. The product is currently invite-only. Kunlun claims Tiangong is the only chatbot in China with training metrics at the level of ChatGPT. Similarly, it's not clear how many people have gained access to Baidu's Ernie bot. Just under a week after its launch on March 16, the chatbot had more than 1.2 million people on a waiting list. The company stopped disclosing numbers within a few days. No update was available Friday. JPMorgan picks China stocks to buy now. Alibaba's not on the list Portfolio manager explains why he has the 'most conviction' in this China tech stock China's version of Spotify is 'underappreciated,' Morgan Stanley says Goldman Sachs loves this sub-sector in China — and names 3 stocks to buy When CNBC tried to sign up for Ernie bot in March, the Baidu system required a mainland Chinese phone number and local ID in order to use the chatbot. More apps in China now require ID verification, or strongly encourage it. Baidu this week said that since Ernie bot's launch, it had updated the product four times, and reduced costs for operating the AI model to one-tenth of what it was previously. The public version of Ernie bot allows users to generate English and Chinese text, images and audio. In the U.S., new AI-based products from Google and Microsoft also have waitlists. ChatGPT isn't consistently usable due to server capacity. Some in the industry also expect such AI tools will be easier to commercialize for business products than for public tools such as search. Regulatory uncertainty lingers while Beijing remains in a comment period for its generative AI draft rules. Authorities have not announced when a final version of the rules would take effect. Outside China, the U.S. and Europe have generally been lax on ChatGPT, except for Italy, which this month banned the chatbot until OpenAI addresses privacy issues. A bug had given ChatGPT users temporary access to other people's conversations. OpenAI this week said it released incognito-like features that allow users to turn off chat history and opt out of having their data used for training its models. Another challenge for companies in China will be obtaining the most advanced chips for training AI models. The U.S. in October announced stringent export bans aimed at restricting China's access to high-end semiconductors. A model at the level of OpenAI's GPT-3 requires at least 1,000 Nvidia A100 graphics processing units, a kind of chip known as GPUs, to complete one 23-day round of training, HSBC analysts said in an April 20 report. More than 30 companies and institutes in China are training such AI models, indicating "robust demand for AI server and increased spending on networking infrastructure," the report said. The analysts said they expect AI GPU demand in China to grow by more than 40% this year. Another estimate, based on checks with cloud providers, predicts that demand to at least double — contributing to a "significant shortage" of chips, according to a representative of a firm investing in AI models, who requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of the topic. On regulation, the source said authorities are supportive of ChatGPT-style tech while planning to regulate it — companies anticipate they will need licenses to operate ChatGPT-like tech and are preparing for applications. — CNBC's Michael Bloom and Ashley Capoot contributed to this report. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by