Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. 

By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email.Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Your support helps TechNode continue to provide credible, on-the-ground journalism and industry insights about the Chinese tech industry. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 TechNode 
					Latest news and trends about tech in China				 On March 27, Chinese search giant Baidu unveiled a one-stop enterprise large-scale model platform called Wenxin Qianfan, based on its ChatGPT rival ERNIE Bot. Originally planned as a public release event, the Wenxin Qianfan launch was changed to a closed-door meeting for corporate clients at the last minute. Baidu’s Executive Vice President Shen Dou introduced Wenxin Qianfan as having capabilities in the areas of government, financial, corporate, e-commerce, and travel services, with the model undertaking a real-time demonstration to complete tasks such as creating PowerPoint presentations based on prompts in three minutes and booking air tickets and hotels. Wenxin Qianfan will charge RMB 0.012 ($0.0017) per 1,000 tokens while ChatGPT API costs $0.002 per 1,000 tokens. [Caijing, in Chinese] 沪ICP备14046707号-4 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy.																	
