
  THE decade of success at Edinburgh investment house Baillie Gifford has arguably been down to its partnership structure and lack of short-term commercial pressures, a leading commentator has said.
 
  The rise in assets under management from £25billion in 2003 to £105 billion at the end of last year reflects strong performance records and the ability to attract both institutional and retail investors, says Simon Elliot, investment trust analyst at Winterflood Securities.
 
  In a report on the partnership's seven investment trusts totalling £5 billion, led by James Anderson's £2.4billion Scottish Mortgage trust, Winterflood says: "Baillie Gifford has a collegiate investment approach, with ideas shared across the firm. A great store is placed on questioning received wisdom, with a culture of challenging colleagues' investment theses. By definition there is no 'house view', as was evident at a recent seminar, with managers taking differing investment positions. Arguably the firm's partnership structure is better suited to long-term investment decision-making, with less emphasis on short-term performance."
 
  Mr Elliot says each trust had portfolio turnover of less than 25 per cent in their latest financial year, and though three funds had appointed new managers this year and one, Edinburgh Worldwide, had broadened its mandate, there was in general good continuity and stability of management teams. "The close-ended structure suits its investment approach. Only one of its seven funds has underperformed its benchmark over the last five years and three of the funds are trading on either a premium or around net asset value."
 
  It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse. 
 
  heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
 
  We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
 
  We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories. 
 
  That is invaluable. 
 
  We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
 
  In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 Comments are closed on this article 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.