UB Purchasing strives to achieve the best possible combination of service and cost when selecting a supplier, while being in accordance with purchasing regulations and initiatives. We welcome opportunities to collaborate with suppliers who can meet the needs of our university community.   The purchasing process at UB is decentralized. Most small dollar transactions and supplier selections are initiated at the department level. Purchases must follow New York State, SUNY and RF SUNY regulations and policies and are competitively bid at various thresholds. UB’s purchasing dollar thresholds describe the dollar amount thresholds and purchasing methods available to departments. The awarding of contracts and purchase orders is done by the UB Purchasing office only. UB strives to ensure a diverse supplier base that is responsive, responsible, and qualified to meet our business requirements.   Sending us your tax ID form does not guarantee that you will do business with UB, but it allows us to collect important information to expedite the ordering process if future procurement opportunities become available. The W-9 form is for U.S. based suppliers and the W-8 form is for foreign-based suppliers. > Complete the W-9 form (UB version) for U.S.-based vendors > Complete the W-8 form (UB version) for non U.S.-based vendors If you are a local or diverse supplier, contact our Supplier Diversity team to partner with us on opportunities. Contact our buyers to find out if there is a need for your specialty. Each buyer specializes in one or more kinds of goods or services or suppliers. Look up the goods or service you want to order to find your expert. We recommend that you call and schedule an appointment prior to visiting our office. Opportunities for new suppliers may be limited in some areas because we already have contracts for many of our commonly ordered high-spend volume products and services. If you are a vendor doing business with UB and your vehicle will be parked for more than 20 minutes at a time, you need a vendor permit. A vendor permit allows you to park in designated areas on campus, as listed here. If your business involves simple deliveries that take 20 minutes or less, a vendor permit is not required as long as your vehicle is marked with a logo, business design or dashboard card. All dashboard cards must be 8 1/2" x 11" and be on record in the Parking and Transportation office. You can apply for a vendor permit if you are an outside company, agent or individual that does business with UB. Each person requesting a permit must complete an application. Current UB faculty, staff or students are not eligible to apply for a vendor permit. Vendor permits are valid January 1 through December 31 of the year issued. Apply online through the Parking and Transportation E-Business Center, or visit the Parking and Transportation Services office to apply. UBITName and password required A vendor permit costs $50.00 and is transferable to any vehicle utilized by the registered permit holder. There is a $15.00 replacement fee for lost or stolen permits. Please complete a Lost or Stolen Permit Form. Renewals are accepted starting in December. Any outstanding fines associated with the applicant or the vehicle(s) being registered must be paid before a vendor permit will be issued. When you apply for your permit, you can request “pool” usage. With pool usage, several individuals may share one permit. Your company accepts responsibility for all fees and fines associated with the permit. For short-term parking, you can park at one of the parking meters conveniently located throughout campus. Please note that payment at parking meters is required, even if you have a parking permit. Parking meters are enforced 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Saturday. Rates vary per location. You can use a 1-800 number or smartphone app to pay at select meters on campus when you pre-register through ParkMobile. ParkMobile is a service that lets you make payments from your credit card, get reminders before your parking expires, add time to your space from your phone and manage your parking receipts.   Traditional parking meters are located throughout North and South Campus. Parking is prohibited at malfunctioning meters. North Campus Parking Meters South Campus Parking Meters To learn about parking and transportation options on UB’s Downtown Campus, visit the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus website. Suppliers: invoices should be mailed or emailed to the address indicated on the purchase order. All suppliers new to UB are required to submit a completed 2-page tax ID form to Procurement Services as confirmation of their business identity. This information is used to build supplier profiles in the three databases that support encumbrances from our electronic requisitioning system. Submit a UB version for U.S.-based vendors of the W-9 form or submit a UB version of the W-8 form for non U.S.-based suppliers. A fast and efficient method to receive your payments from New York State is to enroll in New York State's epayments (electronic payments).  Please visit the NYS Office of the State Comptroller (OSC) Vendor website to enroll. New York State uses the Statewide Financial System (SFS) to maintain vendor information. All vendors paid by entities utilizing state funds must be enrolled in SFS. The entity for which the vendor makes their first purchasing agreement with is responsible to enroll the vendor in SFS. Any future changes to the vendor record must be maintained by the vendor.   For future changes in SFS, keep your sign-up and login information to expedite the process. Go to the Statewide Financial System (SFS) to make any additions or changes to your supplier information so you can be paid timely. If you do not know your login, please contact the SFS help desk at 518-457-7717 or 855-233-8363. A fast and efficient method to receive your payments from the Research Foundation is to enroll in RF’s electronic payment option. The Research Foundation’s Electronic Payment for Vendors and Consultants website includes contact information for enrollment. Provide a completed W-9 form, along with the approved expenditure form (disbursement request, eReq, or ShopBlue), before payments can be made to a new vendor. All travel costs must be directly associated with university business and contractually authorized. Travel is reimbursed according to New York State guidelines using the United States General Services Administration (GSA) reimbursement rates. Invoices must be itemized and the appropriate documentation must be provided.  All travel arrangements must be made by the supplier. Payment can be made when the itinerary and receipt are provided, only coach/economy fare is reimbursable. Original boarding passes must be provided. Original receipts are required for all dollar amounts. Mileage reimbursement rates are determined by the IRS. The maximum per diem rate for Buffalo is paid when a hotel bill is provided.  Expenses are paid for hotel and meal costs only. The meal per diem includes tips to a bellman or hotel maid. The Office of General Services (OGS) and the Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC) have outlined important information you should know about doing business with New York state. While SUNY does, on occasion, purchase under different authority, it is important for you to understand the general purchasing practices of NYS. Section 179 of the State Finance Law requires New York State to pay vendors in a manner consistent with accepted business practices. Specifically, the law requires that when vendors are not paid within 30 calendar days (excluding legal holidays) after delivering acceptable goods/services and a proper invoice, interest will begin to accrue. Interest will be calculated using the "overpayment rate" set by the Commissioner of Taxation and Finance. Interest will only be paid when it exceeds $10 per invoice and when payment is made directly by the State rather than through an intermediary organization such as the Trustee for Certificates of Participation, issued pursuant to Article 5-A of the State Finance Law. The authority to request personal information from you, including identifying numbers such as Federal social security and Federal employer identifying numbers, and the authority to maintain such information, is found in Section 5 of the Tax Law.  Disclosure of this information by you is mandatory.  The principal purpose for collecting the information is to enable the Department of Taxation and Finance to identify individuals, businesses and other entities affected by the taxes administered by the Commissioner of Taxation and Finance.  The information will be used for tax administration purposes and for any other purpose authorized by the Tax Law. The personal information is requested by the Purchasing Unit of the agency issuing the purchase order.  The information is maintained in New York State’s Accounting System by the Director of State Accounts, Office of the State Comptroller, AESOB, Albany, New York 12236. New York State is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. The Jaggaer Supplier Support team can help suppliers with catalog related questions and updates.  Suppliers may submit a supplier support request online, or call 800-233-1121 and follow the prompts for suppliers. For assistance with sourcing events in Jaggaer (ShopBlue), refer to the Bidding Tip Sheet. All purchase orders from New York State agencies are exempt from certain Federal taxes, and New York State local taxes pursuant to Article 28 and 29 of the New York State Tax Law. All such purchase orders must be accepted in lieu of tax exemption certificates, the vendor retaining a copy to prove that the sale was exempt. Do not include taxes from which the State is exempt when submitting invoices. All invoices or New York standard vouchers submitted for payment must include a Payee Identification Number. That number is defined as either a Federal Employer Identification Number or Social Security Number. Failure to include this number may delay your payment. The Contractor shall provide complete and accurate billing invoices to the university in order to receive payment for its services.   Billing invoices submitted to the university must contain all information and supporting documentation required by the university and the Office of the State Comptroller (OSC).  Payment for invoices submitted by the Contractor shall only be rendered electronically unless payment by paper check is expressly authorized by the Vice President for Administration or designee, in her/his sole discretion, due to extenuating circumstances. Such electronic payment shall be made in accordance with ordinary New York State procedures and practices. The contractor shall comply with the OSC procedures to authorize electronic payments.  Authorization forms are available at the OSC website at www.osc.state.ny.us/epay/index.htm. The contractor acknowledges that it will not receive payment on any invoices submitted under this contract if it does not comply with the OSC’s electronic payment procedures, except where the Vice President or designee has expressly authorized payment by paper check as set forth above. The following terms and conditions and any specifications, drawings, and additional terms and conditions, which may be incorporated by reference or appended hereto are part of this purchase order.  By accepting the order or any part thereof, the Seller agrees to and accepts all terms and conditions.   The terms and conditions of the Research Foundation of SUNY state that the following terms and conditions and any specifications, drawings, and additional terms and conditions which may be incorporated by reference or appended, are a part of the purchase order. By accepting the order, commencing work, or accepting payment or any part thereof, the Contractor agrees to and accepts all terms and conditions.  The goods provided under this purchase order must in all respects comply with the description on the purchase order and with the warranties of title, merchantability, and fitness as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code. In addition, if any item included in this purchase order is subject to any United States federal export control regulations, (other than EAR 99), the Vendor must include on its invoice all applicable federal export designations.  In addition, if any such item is listed on the United States Munitions List, the Vendor must notify the Director of Procurement at least 3 business days prior to delivery.  Failure to notify the Director may result in a refusal of delivery.  The Foundation has the right to inspect all goods before accepting them or paying for them. Goods are not considered to be accepted until the purchaser has had an opportunity to make a thorough inspection of the goods when they arrive at the destination. If this order involves personal services, the services must be rendered in a good and workmanlike manner in conformity with all applicable laws, rules, ordinances, and regulations, and, if applicable, the Contractor has or will obtain all legally necessary licenses or permits to perform such work.  This transaction must be consistent with New York State law. To the extent provided by law, Contractor will indemnify the Foundation for any claim made against the Foundation arising out of the goods or services provided by the Contractor.  Contractor shall at all times indemnify, defend and hold harmless Foundation, its officers, directors, employees, consultants, agents and representatives against all claims, causes of action, infringements, proceedings, demands, damages, losses, expenses, and liabilities of any kind whatsoever, including without limitation, legal expenses and attorneys’ fees, arising out of or resulting from the goods and/or services provided hereunder, including without limitation the death of or injury to any person or persons, or out of any damage to property resulting from the goods or services provided hereunder. Contractor, at its own expense, shall maintain in full force and effect commercial comprehensive general liability insurance, which shall protect Foundation and Contractor with respect to events covered in this paragraph: If services are being provided to the Foundation by the Contractor, Contractor shall obtain and maintain the following insurance: This insurance shall be written by a company licensed to do business in New York State with a minimum A.M. Best rating of A-IX. Contractor shall notify Foundation by registered mail thirty (30) days prior to termination or material change of any policy. If Contractor fails to maintain Insurance, Contractor shall promptly notify Foundation and Foundation reserves the right to issue a stop-work order until Contractor is in compliance with the above requirements. The minimum coverage limit amounts and types of insurance coverage set forth in these Terms & Conditions shall not be construed in any manner whatsoever to limit the nature or extent of the Contractor’s responsibility and liability under the Purchase Order to indemnify, hold harmless and defend Foundation. If a written contract already exists for these services between the Contractor and the Foundation, the insurance requirements in the written contract will take precedence over the Purchase Order Terms and Conditions. Contractor shall provide a certificate of insurance to the Foundation with proof of above required insurance coverage(s), and include the Foundation as a primary and non-contributory additional insured on the Contractor’s commercial comprehensive general liability policy.  Pursuant to Circular A-110, article __.48, Contract Provisions, the following conditions will apply to this order. (a) In the event of a violation or breach of these terms and conditions by Contractor, Foundation shall have the right to pursue any available remedy at law or equity including but not limited to withholding any payments to the Contractor for the purpose of set-off until such time as the exact amount of damages may be determined; suspending the agreement/order is established; or terminating the agreement/order. (b) The Foundation may terminate this purchase order agreement: 1) upon thirty (30) days notice for any reason; or 2) if the Foundation has reason to believe that the Contractor is in breach of its obligations hereunder. Such termination shall be effective immediately upon receipt of official written notification from the Foundation. (c) Except as otherwise required by statute, an award that requires the contracting (or subcontracting) for construction or facility improvements shall provide for the recipient to follow its own requirements relating to bid guarantees, performance bonds, and payment bonds unless the construction contract or subcontract exceeds $100,000. For those contracts or subcontracts exceeding $100,000, the Federal awarding agency may accept the bonding policy and requirements of the recipient, provided the Federal awarding agency has made a determination that the Federal Government’s interest is adequately protected. If such a determination has not been made, the minimum requirements shall be as follows. (1) A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price. The “bid guarantee” shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder shall, upon acceptance of his bid, execute such contractual documents as may be required within the time specified. (2) A performance bond on the part of the Contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A “performance bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to secure fulfillment of all the Contractor’s obligations under such contract. (3) A payment bond on the part of the Contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A “payment bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by statute of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract. (4) Where bonds are required in the situations described herein, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties pursuant to 31 CFR part 223, “Surety companies Doing Business with the United States.” (d) When the value of the order is in excess of the small purchase threshold, the Contractor agrees that the Foundation, the Federal sponsoring agency or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to any of its books, documents, papers, and records which are directly related to this transaction for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcriptions. Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Provisions The seller represents by acceptance of this purchase order, contract, subcontract or sales agreement that he/she will comply with the current final rules, amendments and provisions of Executive Orders 11246, 13496, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, including Section 503, the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, the 2002 Jobs for Veterans Act (JVA), and their implementing regulations at 41 CFR Part 60. The seller shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, creed, religion, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, transgender status, age, national origin, marital status, citizenship, physical and mental disability, criminal record, genetic information, predisposition or carrier status, status with respect to receiving public assistance, domestic violence victim status, a disabled, special, recently separated, active duty wartime, campaign badge, Armed Forces service medal veteran, or any other characteristics protected under applicable law. Further, the Company will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. This notice references 41 CFR 60-300.5(a) AND 41 CFR 60-741.5(a) by citation: "This contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-300.5(a) AND 60-741.5(A).  These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities, and require affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified protected veterans and individuals with disabilities." Information on these requirements can be found at http://www.dol.gov/ofccp/ and http://www.dol.gov/olms/regs/compliance/EO13496.htm. Certification Regarding Debarment or Suspension  (1) CONTRACTOR certifies that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that CONTRACTOR and/or any of its Principals, are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by a Federal agency. (2) CONTRACTOR shall provide immediate written notice to the Research Foundation of SUNY if it learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. The Purchase Order, including these terms and conditions, and any Blanket Release, if applicable, are intended to constitute a legal agreement and are legally binding upon all parties. The Blanket Purchase Projection is for estimate/projection use only, and is not intended to constitute any legal agreement or create any legal obligations. E-Verify: Employment Eligibility Verification Optional Clause  If this purchase order is let under an Employment Eligibility Verification award, then this Agreement is subject to the requirements of Employment Eligibility Verification as articulated under FAR clause 52.222-54, commonly referred to as E-Verify, which requires the contractor to enroll in the E-Verify program and verify the work authorization of its employees. Pursuant to the requirements, the contractor will enroll in the program by attesting to and submitting the required E-Verify Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) within thirty (30) days of Agreement execution. Contractor must submit evidence of enrollment to Foundation before any payments will be made. Failure to comply with this requirement will be considered a breach of this Agreement and will invoke a suspension or termination of this Agreement by the Foundation. An Independent Contractor is not required to enroll in E-Verify if he/she is a sole proprietor with no employees, or is otherwise not required to comply with I-9 provisions. Nonetheless, if at any time Independent Contractor hires employees it must notify Foundation of the same and comply with this clause accordingly. Notification of Employee Rights Under Federal Labor Laws  If the value of this PO is more than $10,000 and is funded from a prime federal contract over $100,000 it is incumbent upon the vendor/subcontractor to comply with 29 CFR Part 471, Appendix A to subpart A and flow-down the same to any sub-tier entity meeting the prescribed eligibility/threshold requirements. Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment  Pursuant to the requirements of FAR Clause 52.204-25, the Seller attests it will comply with the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019.   The statutory requirement prohibits the supplier from providing to the University with certain equipment, system, or service that use covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system. Additional information may be found at FAR Clause 52.204-25. Exhibit X  Exhibit X is a table of the U.S. federal government laws and implementing regulations, including A-110, Appendix A, that are applicable to Foundation contracts, agreements and purchase order terms and conditions. Exhibit X is not all inclusive of all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and is subject to change as laws and regulations change. The Contractor must assure compliance with the requirements of Exhibit X, as applicable, to the work performed or for the goods and services provided under the purchase order. For more information, review the Guidance for Exhibit X document. Contractor understands and agrees that they are subject to the terms and conditions outlined in this document. Contractor acknowledges, by its acceptance of this order, commencement of work hereunder, or acceptance of payment hereunder, that it has reviewed said terms and conditions and accepts the same as a condition of this order. All NYS-approved vendors are required to keep to their vendor record up-to-date via the self-service portal of the Statewide Financial System If you change your physical or remittance address, tax ID, business name, or other information, please have your contact sign into the portal to perform the necessary edits.  This will ensure that UB’s purchase orders and payments are not misdirected or delayed due to outdated information. For assistance with the Vendor Portal, contact the NYS Financial System’s support team Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. at 518-457-7717 or 855-233-8363 or email Helpdesk@sfs.ny.gov. Vendors are responsible for updating their own vendor record in the NYS self-service portal. Holding a trademark license with the University at Buffalo provides you with greater visibility for your company and access to broader promotional opportunities within the university. Any order that is placed by the university that will be sold at cost or for a profit will be considered retail and must be produced by an officially licensed vendor. Buffalo.edu uses cookies to help build a better website experience for our visitors. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.