LET US HELP Welcome to Capella Select your program and we'll help guide you through important information as you prepare for the application process. FIND YOUR PROGRAM    Connect with us A team of dedicated enrollment counselors is standing by, ready to answer your questions and help you get started.  CALL EMAIL  August 16, 2023 Reading time: 3–4 minutes Technology-focused blogs give IT professionals a way to find the latest breaking news and updates in their field. If you’re a recent graduate in information technology or are looking for ways to pursue your professional goals in the field of IT, you can find out how seasoned professionals think, what’s happening in high tech and more. Here are six information technology blogs to help you stay on top of industry trends and insights. Originally known as the go-to source for all things social media, Mashable has grown significantly, expanding into technology, business and even entertainment. Mashable is known as a global media company with a passion for culture and tech. Featured post: Auto-GPT, BabyAGI, and AgentGPT: How to use AI agents TechCrunch profiles startups, reviews new internet products and delivers breaking tech news. In addition, TechCrunch operates CrunchBase, a database that leverages its content from startups, investors and incubators, as well as companies, people, funds and events. Stories focus on entrepreneurs and the people behind the companies. Featured post: 6 common challenges facing cybersecurity teams and how to overcome them CNET is an American media publishing website that receives substantial traffic every day. The site publishes tech reviews, news, blogs, podcasts and videos on all the latest technology and consumer electronics, plus technology guides and how-tos. CNET also offers downloadable software and tools. Featured post: Best Internet Speed Tests of 2023: Free, Quick and Accurate Founded in partnership with Vox Media, The Verge provides high-level reviews of new products and technologies, hosts forums for technology professionals to compare notes and solve problems and dives into tech-adjacent spaces like science, art and culture. Featured post: Everything spy movies get right (and wrong) about smart glasses Hosted by technology research and analysis firm GigaOM, this blog helps IT professionals develop new efficiencies by applying emerging technologies in business, media and society. GigaOM covers trends and tools of the 21st century, including cloud, data, mobile and the Internet of Things (IoT). Featured post: Ransomware: Why It’s Time to Think of it as a Data Management Problem Founded in 1991, ZDNet has been a presence in the tech blog world since the concept of “online” was invented. It brings 24/7 news coverage and analysis on new digital trends, technologies and opportunities that matter to IT professionals and tech decision-makers. The blog focuses on tech giants such as Apple, Microsoft and Google, but ZDNET also features product reviews, software downloads, and news and analysis on tech businesses and problems. Featured post: Testing RFID blocking cards: Do they work? Do you need one?   Ready to take your education to the next level? Learn more about Capella University’s information technology degree programs. November 9, 2020 October 8, 2019 Get started on your journey now by connecting with an enrollment counselor. See how Capella may be a good fit for you, and start the application process. Your internet browser is in private browsing mode. Please turn off private browsing mode if you wish to use this site.     