Robert W. Baird analyst Ghansham Panjabi maintained a Hold rating on Greif Class A (GEF – Research Report) on September 21 and set a price target of $70.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $66.17. According to TipRanks, Panjabi is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 6.9% and a 59.02% success rate. Panjabi covers the Industrials sector, focusing on stocks such as AptarGroup, Ball, and Greif Class A. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Hold analyst consensus rating for Greif Class A with a $75.50 average price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on Greif Class A’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending July 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $1.33 billion and a net profit of $90.3 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $1.62 billion and had a net profit of $141.8 million
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 61 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of GEF in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Greif Class A (GEF) Company Description: Greif, Inc. engages in the production of industrial packaging products and services. It operates through the following segments: Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services, Paper Packaging and Services, Flexible Products and Services, and Land Management. The Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services segment involves the production and sale of rigid industrial packaging products, such as steel, fibre and plastic drums, rigid intermediate bulk containers, closure systems for industrial packaging products, transit protection products, water bottles and reconditioned containers, and services, such as container life cycle services, blending, filling and other packaging services, logistics and warehousing. The Paper Packaging and Services segment involves the production and sale of containerboard, corrugated sheets, corrugated containers and other corrugated products to customers in North America. The Flexible Products and Services segment involves the production and sale of flexible intermediate bulk containers and related services on a global basis and the sale of industrial and consumer shipping sacks and multiwall bag products in North America. The Land Management segment involves the management and sale of timber. This segment focuses on the active harvesting and regeneration of the company’s U.S. timber properties. The company was founded by William Greif and Albert Vanderwyst in 1877 and is headquartered in Delaware, OH.
		   Read More on GEF: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks