With competing Amazon Prime Day 2023 sales tooting the phrase ‘Black Friday in July,’ it’s kind of impossible not to think about the upcoming holiday season (even though we’re wearing our shorts and flip-flops still). But, this Prime Day, we’d be remiss if we didn’t honor the fabulous deals on artificial trees (read: Balsam Hill Christmas Tree review), ornaments and other decor that will surely have you rockin’ around — yes, even if it’s only July. To celebrate the last day of Amazon’s two-day event on July 12, the New York Post Shopping team rounded up the best Christmas in July deals to stock up before the season (Related: Best garage storage ideas). Regardless of your budget — whether that’s spending less than $100 or splurging on some worth-it items — we have an item for everyone. The best part? Instead of Santa coming down the chimney handing you gifts, the Prime delivery truck will be rolling up to your front door to hand you your cardboard box.  Be sure to sign up for Amazon Prime if you’re not already a member to take advantage of all deals. At nearly 45% off, the National Tree Company’s Pre-Lit Artificial Full Christmas Tree is standing tall and looking pretty as one of the most glistening Prime Day deals yet. If you’re looking for a towering 12-foot tree, this white-lit tree is your best bet. For just $50, we can’t encourage you to add the Best Choice Products 6 ft. Premium Hinged Artificial Christmas Tree to your Amazon cart enough. Though it’s not pre-lit, you can buy some lights here (also on sale!) and it’s a cost-effective option for apartment- and loft-sized spaces alike. Any Christmas tree is, undeniably, cute — as is the case with the National Tree Company Pre-Lit Artificial Mini Christmas Tree. For less than $30, how could you say no to this nightstand-topper that’ll instantly give you all those ‘White Christmas’ vibes imaginable? Speaking of having a ‘White Christmas,’ these classic, retro-leaning snowflake ornaments are sure to make your Christmas tree sparkle. With nearly 4,000 glistening reviews, this 36-pack is just $10 for today only (thanks, Prime Day!) For some, collecting nutcrackers is what brings them pure joy (and why wouldn’t it)? To line your staircase or flaunt your bookshelf, shop the Kurt Adler 16″ Wooden Gingerbread Christmas Nutcracker. In honor of Prime Day, it’s just shy of 50% off for the most festive, holly-jolly steal. While we’re all about scoring a fabulous deal on a Christmas tree this Prime Day, we can’t forget about the Christmas storage (ultimately, the most important on December 26, or however long you decide to wait until you have to disassemble your home’s photo-op). This one boasts more than 14,000 positive reviews and is just $9! Hello, 50%. Yankee Candle is notorious for having some of the most grandiose Prime Day deals ever (so naturally, we had to include its ‘Balsam & Cedar’ scent to celebrate the gold ribbon-wrapped holiday season that’ll soon be upon us. Grab this aromatic home decor deal for 60%, too. To adorn your mantle, pick up the Kunyida 18″ Knitted Christmas Stockings (6-Pack) to bundle and save. Collectively, they’re less than $25, making the most affordable pre-holiday purchase yet. Even better, they’re well-made and backed by nearly 4,000 cheery reviews. Check out the New York Post Shopping section for more content.