The actor, who played Alan Humphries in the TV show, died on July 11 after a 'long battle with Leukaemia. Former Grange Hill star George Armstrong has died at the age of 60, with fans paying tribute to him. The actor, who played Alan Humphries in the TV show, died on July 11 after a 'long battle with Leukaemia.'  A Grange Hill fan account took to Twitter to share the devastating news.  "I’ve just heard the very sad news that George Armstrong aka Alan Humphries passed away yesterday. RIP George. A true Grange Hill legend xxxx," they wrote. Others took to the comment section to pay tribute to the star. "So very sad. Rip. G.H and tuckers luck. Always watched. Way to young. Our childhood stars are passing before our eyes," one user wrote. Another said: "A character from my childhood. Such sad news, thoughts with his family and grange Hill friends." "Way too soon. One of the great original characters who put the show on the map, as well as helping to light up the spin off Tucker’s Luck. RIP George," another heartbroken fan posted. One reminisced: "Sad news. Met him, Terry Sue-Patt and Todd Carty when they were filming Grange Hill at a local high school during summer hols. We were so star struck." Grange Hill was a popular children's television drama series portraying life in a comprehensive school. The show premiered in 1978 on BBC1 and ran until 2008. It dealt with typical school issues like bullying as well as hard-hitting storylines such as racism, drugs and teenage pregnancy.  George's character, Alan, was a key original character between 1978 and 1982. The actor was part of the show for its first five series, with his character joining Todd Carty's Tucker Jenkins for three series of the spin-off series, Tucker's Luck. George was also known for his role as PC Driscoll in The Bill in 1989. He soon left acting and became a Technical Theatre Manager at a public school. The actor started his television career at a young age and got his first notable role as Hubert Lane in 1977's Just William. He starred alongside Bonnie Langford in the television adaptation. * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox