Menu 'Emmy' Award-Winning Ben Hill serves as Anchor of NewsChannel 5 This Morning, winner of “Best Morning Newscast.” Hill grew up just north of Nashville, in Owensboro, KY, and is thrilled to be back “home.” Since joining NC5, he’s already extensively covered the final presidential debate of 2020, hosted by Belmont University in Nashville and anchored live, breaking coverage of the Christmas Day bombing in downtown Nashville. The coverage of the bombing earned Hill, and the NC5 team, a regional ‘Emmy’. Hill also co-hosted “Music City Midnight,” Nashville’s live countdown on New Year’s Eve and reported live from Nashville’s new MLS soccer stadium, GEODIS Park, leading up to its debut home game. Prior to arriving at NewsChannel 5, Hill served as Anchor of “Eyewitness News Sunrise,” with WTHR-TV in Indianapolis, IN. While with WTHR, Ben led coverage of the Royal Wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle live from Windsor and London, England. Hill also anchored live coverage of the Noblesville School shooting, 7 hours of live pre-race coverage leading up to the Indianapolis 500 from the iconic Indianapolis Motor Speedway, and helped host the “Circle of Lights,” an iconic Indy tradition held live in downtown Indianapolis in front of 100,000 spectators ready to ring in the holiday season. Hill joined WTHR from South Carolina, where he served as Anchor of “The Morning News” on FOX Carolina. While in the Carolinas, Hill extensively covered the presidential primary election – interviewing Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton, and several other top primary contenders. He was also selected to serve as a panelist for the “Palladian View” – a forum that hosted many of the republican presidential candidates, where he questioned their policy positions. Hill also covered the tragic shooting of nine parishioners at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina, where he anchored live continuous coverage as the manhunt for the suspect ensued. Prior to FOX Carolina, he was chosen to launch an all-new newscast in Texas: “FOX 51 Today.” In that position as Anchor, Hill interviewed local newsmakers and delivered breaking news, anchoring live coverage of the manhunt for the suspected Boston Marathon bombers. Hill began his broadcasting career as Weekend Anchor/Reporter at NBC affiliate KETK in Tyler, TX where he reported live, breaking coverage of President Obama’s announcement on the death of Osama bin Laden. He also served as Anchor for NBC 33 in Baton Rouge, LA. While earning his B.A. in Broadcast Journalism and Political Science from Western Kentucky University, and Anchoring and Reporting for NewsChannel 12, Hill was selected to serve internships with “NBC Nightly News” and “Good Morning America” in New York City. During his time with "Nightly," he was credited for his work on several stories -- including the coverage of the contentious Iranian Presidential election and the attempted terrorist bombing of "Flight 253" on Christmas Day. Hill was credited as co-Producer and Associate Producer for many pieces that made air at “Nightly.” He is an avid golfer and served on the board of the Indiana Golf Foundation, which allows hundreds of Indiana youth an opportunity to experience all the benefits that come from playing the game of golf. Hill and his wife, Holly, daughter Harper, and son Hampton, are already taking in all Nashville has to offer! Twitter: @benhillnc5Facebook: Facebook.com/benhillnewsInstagram: @benhillnews  News News News News News News News News News News News News 