Fake it till you make it with our edit of the best artificial Christmas trees from John Lewis, The White Company, Habitat, and more 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 In-stock artificial trees
The quick list
1. Best overall
2. Best unlit
3. Best pre-lit
4. Best value
5. Budget buy
6. Best snow-covered
7. Best small
8. Budget unlit
9. Budget snow-covered
10. Hassle-free
11. Best alternative
How to choose
Tree skirts
Tree storage
FAQs The best artificial Christmas trees can now truly give the real deal a run for their money, plus, you get the bonus of convenience and get to opt out of December-long pine needle hoovering. No, you might not get the thrill of the snowy trip to the Christmas tree farm with an artificial option, but it does mean there are no worries about how early you can decorate (no-one wants drooping branches when the big day arrives), there’s no need to water or worry about pine sap damaging your flooring, you’re not constrained with positioning to keep a real tree away from dehydrating radiators or windows, and you’re excused the hassle of disposing of your tree in the New Year.  The best fake Christmas trees have come a long way in recent years, with numerous realistic-looking options now available. To that end, we’ve grilled the Ideal Home team’s style experts to find out where they head to shop for a faux tree that looks as good as the real thing – you'll find our top picks below – as well as plenty of Christmas tree ideas elsewhere on Ideal Home for when you come to decorate your new tree. This year the best artificial Christmas trees are selling out fast. If one of our top recommendations isn't in stock when you come to shop then here are the best places to shop in-stock faux trees right now. John Lewis: shop artificial Christmas trees
Marks & Spencer: shop artificial Christmas trees
The White Company: shop artificial Christmas trees On a budget? These more affordable artificial Christmas trees might not be quite as realistic, but they do offer plenty of festive bang for their buck: Argos: shop artificial Christmas trees
Dunelm: shop artificial Christmas trees
Very: shop artificial Christmas trees Short on time? This quick list is an overview of the very best artificial Christmas trees. You'll find more information on each tree and why the team recommends it if you keep on scrolling. Best overall  Best overall This is one of the most realistic artificial Christmas trees we've come across. It has a super-generous 4725 bushy branch tips, is pre-lit for hassle-free decoration, and comes with stylish display pot included. Just what we asked Santa for. Read more below Best unlit  Best unlit artificial tree If you have the cash to splash on a luxury tree, then this is one of The White Company's bestselling artificial trees, and at 7.5ft tall it's designed to make a statement. It's unlit, but that could make for more versatility, allowing you to decorate with the Christmas lights of your choice. Read more below Best pre-lit  Best pre-lit artificial tree It's a close call for best pre-lit tree between this and John Lewis' Cotswold at #1 in our round-up. The White Company's Pre-Lit option is always a bestseller, and, with 6ft, 7.5ft and 9ft tree heights to choose from, there's a size option for any room. Read more below Best value  Best value artificial tree Whilst it may not be quite as realistic as our top three trees, this John Lewis option still looks great, has a high number of branch tips, and comes in three heights. It's also very good value, coming in at just a third of the price of the most expensive trees in our round-up. Read more below Budget buy  Budget buy Whilst this budget artificial Christmas tree can't rival the more expensive options on our list in terms of realism, if you're looking for a large artificial Christmas tree that won't break the bank then this affordable option is very hard to beat on price. It's just £25 for the 6ft and £35 for a 7ft centerpiece. Read more below Best snow-covered  Best snow-covered Looking to create a winter snow scene worthy of the North Pole? This frosted Christmas tree will help you to achieve those Lapland goals, with bushy branches coated in an ethereal powder white coating delivering a frosted look straight from a crisp winter's morning. Read more below Why you can trust Ideal Home 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test.  We think this could well be one of the most realistic artificial Christmas trees we've come across. It's an investment, but it does a brilliant job of mimicking the real thing, with 4725 moulded PVC branch tips (nearly double that of most other faux trees we've come across), and a bushy conical shape that delivers that archetypal Christmas tree look. When it comes time to decorate, this tree is also an easy winner. It comes pre-lit with 900 white micro LEDs, and its natural-looking irregular outline offers a good mix of longer branches for hanging dangling baubles, and fuller branches towards the centre for nestling shorter decorations. What's more this faux tree comes with a stylish black pot included – something of a rarity in the world of artificial Christmas trees – so there's no need to look for a tree skirt or conjure a way to disguise its base. Perfect for hassle-free set-up. In fact, the only downside to choosing this tree – other than the fact it only comes in a 3ft or a 7ft design and we'd love a few more size options – is that you might struggle to find it in stock. So if you're looking to invest in a realistic faux Christmas tree and you spot it online or in-store, it's well worth snapping up quickly.  If you have the cash to splash on a luxury tree, then this is one of The White Company's bestselling artificial trees, and at 7.5ft tall it's designed to make a statement.  It can't quite compete with John Lewis & Partner's Cotswold Potted Pre-lit Christmas Tree in terms of branch tips, offering 1754 to the Cotswold tree's 4725, and – unlike the Cotswold tree – it doesn't come with a tree skirt included. But, it does look very realistic, and we love the fuller thicker branches that echo the appeal of a real Nordmann fir.  You can also recreate the full look by purchasing one of The White Company's Wicker Tree Skirts seperately. It's an added expense, but, it does complete the look and you'll be able to use it year after year. Plus, if you prefer the verstality of an unlit artificial Christmas tree than the Symons Nordmann Fir delivers, allowing you to decorate with whatever colour Christmas tree lights you prefer.  It's a close call for best pre-lit artificial tree between this and the John Lewis Cotswold tree at number one in our round-up. The White Company's Pre-Lit Grand Spruce is always a bestseller, with this conical-shaped Christmas tree available in three size options; a versatile 6ft tree, a popular 7.5ft option, or a make-a-statement 9ft showstopper. All size options also come pre-lit with warm white LED bulbs to make for hassle-free and perfectly-spaced decoration – just add your own baubles to complete the look –  as well as eight light settings to allow you to toggle between twinkle or steady glow. We love the shape and those slightly sparser branches that allow more space for dangling baubles to take centerstage. Plus, the three size options make it easy to find a tree to fit most room sizes.  Although some people love the ease of a pre-lit tree, an unlit option is usually cheaper than a comparable pre-lit option and it gives you the versatility to use any colour Christmas tree lights you choose. A good range of sizes, including 5ft, 6ft and 7ft options, a realtively very reasonable price point, and a high number of branch tips that result in a dense and highly realistic looking fir tree make this faux option our top pick for best unlit artificial Christmas tree. Whilst those full branches do make for a bit more tweaking to get each layer looking its best, the results are worth it, with no detail spared in this tree's efforts to mimic the real deal, including outermost tips that are a lighter green to resemble new tree growth. Plus, unlike sparser branched trees, there's no danger of seeing the central pole through this full foliage, and if you like to go OTT on decorations, you won't run out of branches to adorn any time soon.  Whilst this budget artificial Christmas tree can't rival the more expensive options on our list in terms of realism, if you're looking for a large artificial Christmas tree that won't break the bank, then this affordable option is very hard to beat on price at just £25 for the 6ft tree and £35 for a 7ft centerpiece. The affordable price tag does naturally mean a lot less tree, with branches understandably a lot sparser compared to those twice or three times its price. For comparison this budget option offers 565 branch tips on the 6ft version and 703 branch tips on the 7ft model.  That means there are a lot less branches to decorate compared to the 2000+ tips most 7 footers in our round-up deliver, and does make the central pole a lot more visible, although adding some bushy tinsel is a quick and easy way to hide any gaps.  Looking to create a winter snow scene worthy of the North Pole? This frosted Christmas tree will help you to achieve those Lapland goals, with bushy branches coated in an ethereal powder white coating delivering a frosted look straight from a crisp winter's morning. Opt for the 6ft tree with its 200 warm white LED lights and 891 branch tips, or the 7ft tree with its 300 warm white lights and 1259 branch tips if you want a twinkling showstopper. Yes, you might find a frosted tree a little more high maintenance due to those powder-coated branches, but isn't a light dusting of snow what we all want for Christmas? Perhaps just make sure to add one of the best vacuum cleaners to your Christmas list ready for when you come to dismantle.  If you're not looking to go all-in on a 6ft+ tree, but still want a way to embrace the festivities then we think this small 3ft artificial Christmas tree is the ideal solution. The compact design is perfect for styling on a sideboard or tabletop, or a manageable size to add to a children's bedroom so they can decorate it to their heart's content... without 'contributing' to your vision for the decor scheme of the main tree in the house... The tree comes in just three parts – two sections of tree and the weighted burlap base – so set-up couldn't be any quicker or simpler, and there are plenty of branches to fluff out and get the tree looking realistic – far more than any comparable tree of this size we've come across.  We also love the ease and simplicity of the pre-decorated weighted base, with the burlap providing a neutral look that will blend with a wide range of decor styles, and protecting the surface it rests on from any damage.  If you're looking for an affordable artificial Christmas tree then this mid-priced option from Homebase offers a good amount of branches and bushiness. It doesn't hit the realism of an artificial tree twice its price, but either the 6ft tree or the 7ft version are a great option if you're not looking to invest quite so much cash. It's also the perfect second tree for a kid's playroom, conservatory, or hallway. Unlike other options, this tree comes unlit, but throw on some fairy lights and you'll soon have some festive twinkle.  Although it can't quite rival Marks & Spencer's frosted Christmas tree, this Dunelm option does come with a smaller price tag, plus, if your living room is on the smaller side then the compact shape will be a lot easier to work with. The number of branches and branch tips on this tree aren't specified, but in person the snow-tipped branches are full-bodied and bushy and offer reasonable coverage once fluffed out. Plus, the frosted coating is fairly well stuck on making for minimal droppage when you come to add your decs. This tree also offers a 6ft or 7ft option depending on your ceiling heights, with both at affordable price points.  If you're looking for a snow-covered artificial tree on a budget, we think this option is well worth considering.  If you're willing to invest in an artificial Christmas tree that pulls out all the stops, then it's well worth considering a luxury option from artificial Christmas tree specialists Balsam Hill, and it doesn't get much more luxe than this innovative Flip Tree® design.  Full, dense foliage with highly realistic needles ensures there's plenty of visual wow-factor, but it's the hassle-free set-up that will really make your jaw drop – and justify its investment price tag. The tree is delivered in two parts, both protected by perfectly-fitting Christmas tree bags. An easily manoeuvrable wheeled base allows you to get the lower section into position without heavy lifting, whereby you simply apply the locking brakes and flip the lower section over to create the base of your tree. The upper section then slots easily into place so your tree can be up and ready to decorate in under a minute, with no individual branches to slot into place and just a little fluffing to get it looking its best. For added convenience, this tree is pre-lit with a choice of single-coloured or multicoloured light options, with the multi-light option able to be adjusted by remote control. It's definitely on our wishlist to Santa.  If you want a Christmas tree alternative that still delivers big in the festive stakes, then with fir branches, snow-dusted pine cones, and glistening red berries aplenty, this winter wall hanging packs a big punch for its size. It also comes pre-lit with 64 warm white LED lights, and as it's battery operated you don't need to worry about dangling cables or freeing up a wall socket to plug it in.  We think it makes a brilliant space-saving option to pile the presents under, or you can use it to add some seasonal excitement to a blank wall in a high traffic area where a tree may be a hindrance, like the hallway or kitchen. The best artifical Christmas trees don't come cheap, and noone wants to invest in a tree that looks so fake you can't wait to take it down. Here are our top tips for choosing an artificial Christmas tree that you'll be happy to pile up the presents under and bring down from the loft year after year. If you want an artificial tree that's difficult to distinguish from the real thing then you need to look at the tree's 'tip count'. This is the number of branch tips a faux tree has been constructed with, and although the tip count will increase with the size of the tree, if you're comparing two options of comparable height, then the tip count is a good indication of its quality.  The higher the number of tips, the more bushy and realistic an artificial tree is likely to be. As a rough guage, the best artificial Christmas trees will generally offer 2000+ branch tips on a 6 foot tree. However, more branch tips does generally also mean more expense. When it comes to an artificial Christmas tree, you really do get what you pay for. You can pick up a budget artificial tree for under £100 that will do the job of adding some festive fun to your interior, but if you want a faux tree that can really give the real deal a run for its money then it's likely you're going to need to spend at least two or three hundred pounds. However, an artificial tree is an investment that you'll be able to use year after year, so calculate the saving you'll make on not buying a real tree each year for the next 5 or 10 years, and you could be making a savvy purchase.  We've probably all made the mistake of falling in love with the biggest real Christmas tree in the field, only to then have to saw sections off just to get it through the front door, let alone make it fit into the living room.  The bonus with an artificial Christmas tree is you can choose exactly the right size to fit your room – as long as you measure up first – and as most are assembled in situ, there's no need to worry about getting a tree up the garden path or through the hallway. The most popular artificial tree sizes tend to be 6ft, 7 or 7.5ft, or 9ft, but you'll also find bigger and smaller options available depending on your needs.  Mac Harman, founder and CEO of luxury artificial tree and decoration brand, Balsam Hill, offers the following advice for choosing your tree size, 'Before buying a Christmas tree, decide where it will be displayed. Which room will it be displayed in? Will it be a centrepiece? Or will it fit into a corner, along a wall, in front of a window, or next to a doorway? How much space can the tree fill? Look for a tree that is six inches lower than the ceiling height. A 7.5’ tree is best for a standard 8-9' ceiling. This ensures that the tip of the Christmas tree does not hug the ceiling and allows space for a tree topper'.   'For the diameter, check the very widest point of the tree. The true space occupied by the tree will be about six inches less than the stated diameter.  If you don’t have much space, a slim or narrow tree can still fit and maintain a natural shape. There also are pencil trees that have less of a traditional shape but fit in tight spaces', says Mac. Cox & Cox's Product & Creative Director, Dani Taylor, agrees, offering the following rule of thumb for getting tree size just right, 'The largest 8-10ft trees are ideal for rooms with high ceilings or to make a big impression outdoors, 7ft trees are the best for standard ceilings with a height of around 240cm, 5-6ft trees are ideal for smaller living areas or homes with low or sloping ceilings, and under 5ft options look perfect on console tables, or in guest bedrooms or children’s rooms. A slim or metal silhouette Christmas tree or Christmas tree wall art can work really well for narrow spaces as an alternative'.  If the idea of detangling fairy lights fills you with existential dread, then a pre-lit Christmas tree could be for you. These ingenious inventions either feature LED lights set into the artificial tree's branch tips or a 'pre-woven' lights that are already securely attached to your tree. Both options allow for hassle-free illumination – just remember to check whether your chosen tree has warm white or cool white LEDs if you're a bit of a stickler for a particular glow. As the lights are already evenly distributed throughout the whole tree, opting for a pre-lit tree will save you the job of fiddling about and potentially getting in a tangle over the perfect arrangement, plus you don't have to guess just how long a string of fairy lights you need to buy, or have unsightly wires showing through the branches in the daylight.  However, you will generally pay more for a pre-lit artificial tree than an unlit one, and it does limit you a little to your decorating colour scheme each year. And bear in mind that if the lighting system gets damaged then this can be a little trickier to fix than just replacing a set of standalone fairy lights. If you prefer to add your own lights then Balsam Hill's Mac has the following top tip for getting the illuminations right, 'Lights bring your Christmas tree to life even without decorations. If you prefer to string your own lights, you need at least 100 lights per foot of the tree. Double or triple the amount if you love the look of brighter, more intense lights on your tree'.   Find more decorating inspiration in our guide to this year's most popular Christmas tree trends and recreate your favourite look with the help of our guide to how to decorate a Christmas tree.  Although there are affordable artificial xmas trees to be found, investing in one of the best artificial Christmas trees on the market doesn't usually come cheap.  But, if you're after quality that can truly rival the real thing, then we think it really is a part of your festive decor where it pays to spend a little more. And, the best way to save money on investing in an artificial Christmas tree is to shop when artificial Christmas tree deals are in full swing.  As you might expect, the biggest discounts are often found during the January sales, when any trees that haven't sold are likely to be reduced to clear space for spring/summer lines. If you don't mind purchasing your tree out of season and storing it until later in the year, then January artificial Christmas tree deals can be the best time to shop.  However, if you want a tree pre-Christmas, then the good news is that there are other times of the year to save money, in particular if you shop whilst Black Friday artificial Christmas tree deals are in full swing at the end of November – the perfect timing for Christmas tree shopping! You've chosen your faux tree, assembled it and fluffed the branches, but what's the best way of disguising the unsightly base? You need a tree skirt! We've rounded up the best places to source one below: Argos: Christmas tree skirts 
John Lewis: Christmas tree skirts 
The White Company: xmas tree skirts 
Dunelm: Christmas tree skirts 
La Redoute: Christmas tree skirts  Perhaps the easiest way to store an artificial Christmas tree is in the original packaging box the tree came in – so try to be gentle when you first unpack it! However, not all packaging boxes are suitable, and many won't last year in and year out. There's also the task of how you get it back into the box – the wrestle is never an easy one.  Alternatively, you could opt for a Christmas tree bag – a zip-up bag that makes transporting your tree from the shed or loft to the front room an easier affair. Or there's the good old option of a stackable lidded storage box for protecting your tree from dust in the attic or cupboard. We've rounded up the best places to source one below: Amazon: tree bags and storage boxes 
Argos: tree bags and storage boxes 
Dunelm: xmas tree storage bags 
The White Company: xmas tree bags  To find the most realistic looking tree, it's all about the branch tips. Although it isn't a guarantee, generally speaking the higher the number of branch tips an artificial tree has, the more realistic it will look. As a guage, the best artificial Christmas trees will generally offer 2000+ branch tips on a 6 foot tree. However, more branch tips does mean more expense.  The cheapest artificial Christmas trees reduce costs by offering less branches which can make for a far sparser looking tree, and means you're more likely to be able to see the central metal pole – instantly making the tree look more fake. Reading product specifications to guage the number of branch tips a tree has is the best way to guage the realism of an online purchase. However, there's still no substitute for seeing an artificial Christmas tree in the flesh where possible. Also, one person's realistic may not match anothers, with all of us being drawn to different tree shapes and branch styles.  As well as putting up our fair share of artificial trees in our time (hello Ideal Home Christmas photoshoots in July...) in order to compile our edit of the best artificial Christmas trees we grilled the experts on what to look out for when you shop, decoded branch tip numbers, investigated the ideal height to ceiling ratios, and checked out our chosen trees for ease of assembly and aesthetics. We also took into account the wider views of those who own each product via online reviews. Click here to find out more about how we review products at Ideal Home. Interior designer, stylist, and journalist Nicky Phillips has styled and art directed over 300 shoots for Ideal Home magazine to date, including plenty of Christmas showstoppers, so she knows her way around assembling and decorating an artificial Christmas tree or two! She raves about the hassle-free convenience of Balsam Hill's tree collection; 'Their trees are so quick and easy to put together with their slot together pre-lit system. They give a truly real looking faux tree with a beautiful warm white glow'. No stranger to assembling an artificial Christmas tree, Amy was eager to see how the latest and greatest faux trees compared to the 10-year-old tree she's been lugging up and down from the loft for a decade. Speaking to artificial Christmas tree experts from specialists Balsam Hill, The White Company, Cox & Cox, and more, Amy's investigated everything you need to know about getting this purchase right. Sign up to our newsletter for style and decor inspiration, house makeovers, project advice and more.   Amy is Ideal Home’s Sleep Editor. She’s spent the last three years researching and testing all things sleep for our audiences whether that’s sorting the wheat from the chaff in our hunt for the best mattress or learning about materials to uncover the best duvet for various sleep needs. She also lends her expertise to our furniture guides, sharing her design knowledge with our readers to help them choose the right sofa for their interior or the best garden furniture for their outside space. 
The patterned carpets, dated wallpaper and dreary colours had to go!
 
By Marisha Taylor
 
Small kitchen flooring ideas don't have to mean playing it safe - there are plenty of eye-catching ways to finish off a compact space in style
 
By Natasha Brinsmead
 
How I achieved a light-filled bathroom that feels far from cramped
 
By Laurie Davidson
 Ideal Home is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 