Wanindu Hasaranga was the leading run-scorer and wicket-taker in the 20-over Lanka Premier League in August Sri Lanka leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga will miss the World Cup starting next week after failing to recover from a hamstring injury. The 26-year-old, a key player for Sri Lanka in white-ball cricket, has taken 67 wickets at an average of 28.77 in 48 ODIs. Seamer Dushmantha Chameera has also been ruled out by a pectoral injury. The 50-over World Cup in India begins on 5 October, with Sri Lanka playing South Africa on 7 October. World Cup fixtures World Cup squads Sri Lanka Cricket said Hasaranga's "recovery will be monitored, and if he is declared fit to play he will be considered as a replacement in the event of an injury to a squad member during the tournament". All-rounder Dasun Shanaka will captain Sri Lanka, who are coached by former England coach Chris Silverwood. Sri Lanka reached the final of the Asia Cup this month, when they were bowled out for 50 in a 10-wicket defeat by India. Sri Lanka squad: Dasun Shanaka (capt), Kusal Mendis, Pathum Nissanka, Kusal Perera (wk), Dimuth Karunaratne, Charith Asalanka, Dhananjaya de Silva, Sadeera Samarawickrama (wk), Dushan Hemantha, Maheesh Theekshana, Dunith Wellalage, Kasun Rajitha, Dilshan Madushanka, Matheesha Pathirana, Lahiru Kumara. 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.