
SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., a member of SMBC Group, today announced the appointment of Steven Feinberg as Head of Credit for the Fixed Income Sales & Trading Group, based in New York.
 
In his new role, Steven leads the U.S. Investment Grade, High-Yield, Emerging Markets, and Structured Products teams, overseeing the growth of the organization's sales and trading capabilities and strengthening of the product offering to SMBC's clients globally. He also works in partnership with the Capital Markets team to align secondary trading priorities and enhance SMBC's value to clients within its primary markets.
 
Steven reports to Masahito Nonaka, Deputy President of SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., who said: "Steven brings a tremendous wealth of fixed income and credit experience to our organization, having served in various senior leadership roles at large global banks. We're pleased to have Steven join SMBC Nikko and look forward to our continued growth in these businesses. He leads a talented, expanding team that provides key product and service offerings to our institutional clients."
 
A Managing Director, Steven joined SMBC from MUFG, where he served as the International Head of Credit Trading, and Co-Head of U.S. Flow Products, overseeing Sales, Trading, and Desk Research for Investment Grade, High-Yield, Secondary Loan Trading, Commercial Paper, CLOs, and Asset-Backed Securitization.
 
In previous roles, Steven served as the Head of U.S. Investment Grade Trading and Research at Deutsche Bank after spending 20 years at DLJ/Credit Suisse in multiple leadership roles, including Americas Head of Investment Grade Sales and Trading, Sector Strategy, and Emerging Markets teams.
 
Steven's arrival is a key step in SMBC's ongoing investment in the secondary Credit Sales and Trading platform, and follows several other recent hires, including:
 
About SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc.
 
SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc. is a member of SMBC Group, one of the world's largest global financial institutions. Based in New York City, SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc. provides investment securities and other financial services to corporate and institutional clients, focusing on North America and Latin America. SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc. caters to institutional investors such as mutual funds, hedge funds, and other investment advisors.
 
About SMBC Group
 
SMBC Group is a top-tier global financial group. Headquartered in Tokyo and with a 400-year history, SMBC Group offers a diverse range of financial services, including banking, leasing, securities, credit cards, and consumer finance. The Group has more than 150 offices and 86,000 employees worldwide in nearly 40 countries. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) is the holding company of SMBC Group, which is one of the three largest banking groups in Japan. SMFG's shares trade on the Tokyo, Nagoya, and ADRs on the New York (NYSE: SMFG) stock exchanges. As of December 31, 2022, its total assets were $1.99 trillion.
 
In the Americas, SMBC Group has a presence in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru. Backed by the capital strength of SMBC Group and the value of its relationships in Asia, the Group offers a range of commercial and investment banking services to its corporate, institutional, and municipal clients. It connects a diverse client base to local markets and the organization's extensive global network. The Group's operating companies in the Americas include Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. (SMBC), SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., SMBC Nikko Securities Canada, Ltd., SMBC Capital Markets, Inc., SMBC Rail Services LLC, Manufacturers Bank, JRI America, Inc., SMBC Leasing and Finance, Inc., Banco Sumitomo Mitsui Brasileiro S.A., and Sumitomo Mitsui Finance and Leasing Co., Ltd. For more information, please visit www.smbcgroup.com.
