Cameron Borthwick-Jackson was one of Louis van Gaal's favourites at Manchester United - but he has just been released by Burton Albion. The 26-year-old broke into the Red Devils squad while Van Gaal was in charge during the 2015/16 season. In total, the defender made 14 appearances across all competitions after being promoted to the first-team following an injury crisis. After making his debut against West Brom in November 2015, Van Gaal said: "I have seen him once or twice and I have been impressed by him. "I knew that Marouane Fellaini was injured, so I talked with Warren Joyce and asked what he had for me. "I’m always talking with him or Paul McGuinness, and he said at the moment the left full-back is in good shape.  "I needed a left full-back because Marcos Rojo had played a few games in a row, so I have to take into account that it might be too much. "I put Cameron in the line-up without any fear, and I have to say he did very well." Fast-forward nearly eight years and Borthwick-Jackson has just been released by Burton after two years at the club. The left-back had played 72 times for the Brewers before his release was announced by the club - the most he has appeared for any side in his career. But he is now on the lookout for a new team with his contract to come to an end in the summer. He had helped Burton to finish 15th in the table - an improvement on the 16th they ended up in last campaign. However, his performances did not warrant a contract extension and Borthwick-Jackson is now on the hunt for his fourth professional team. The Manchester-born defender made several loan moves following his breakout campaign under Van Gaal, where he was shipped off to Wolves, Leeds, Scunthorpe, Tranmere and Oldham. He eventually joined the latter on a permanent transfer in 2020 after being released by United, though he spent just one year at Boundary Park after they decided against giving him a new deal. This service is provided on talkSPORT Ltd's Terms of Use in accordance with our Privacy Policy.