Orion Innovation, a leading digital transformation and product development services firm, is acquiring Banktech Software Services Ltd., a core banking implementation partner for global financial institutions, enabling Orion to bring additional industry expertise, open banking solutions, and implementation capabilities to the company. “Banktech is a perfect fit for our growing financial services business,” said Raj Patil, CEO of Orion. “We are excited to strengthen our industry expertise and capabilities to deliver end-to-end transformative solutions to our financial services clients globally.” Banktech is a multi-regional partner for Temenos, a leading global banking platform for large and small banks, challenger banks, and fintechs. Temenos’ banking platform offers a wide range of solutions for retail, corporate, payments, wealth management, and private banking. Banktech delivers implementation services in core banking and digital banking for Temenos clients in the UK, Ireland, EMEA, and APAC. Bringing Banktech and Orion together expands the company’s capabilities in banking platforms and offerings in banking-as-a-service and SaaS. Orion has approximately 7,000 associates and 12 major global delivery centers across North America, Latin America, EMEA, and APAC. Suchen Janjale, CEO of Banktech, will join Orion and work closely with Anoop Gala, Global Head of Financial Services at Orion, to help financial services companies accelerate their digital strategies.  Orion is a portfolio company of One Equity Partners (OEP), a middle-market private equity firm focused on building market-leading companies by identifying and executing transformative business combinations. For more information about this news, visit www.orioninc.com. KMWorld is the leading publisher, conference organizer, and information provider serving the knowledge management, content management, and document management markets. All Content Copyright © 1998 - 2024 Information Today Inc.  KMWorld22 Bayview Street, 3rd FloorPO Box 404 Camden, ME 04843207-236-8524 PRIVACY/COOKIES POLICY      