Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV Startup Stories Saturday February 11, 2023, 1 min Read Saudi Arabia-based ﻿WeDeliver﻿ raised a pre-Series A round from BIM Ventures, at LEAP tech conference 2023, at Riyadh Front Expo Centre, Saudi Arabia.  WeDeliver, a B2B logistics and last-mile delivery services provider, was founded by Ahmad Ramahi and Mohammad Abu Kwaik in 2020.   The raised capital will be used to expand the company's operations in Saudi Arabia, and create specialised fintech-related solutions in the logistics segment. These solutions are expected to be launched in 2023.   BIM Ventures, founded by Mohamed Amine Merah in 2017, was among the Diamond sponsors of LEAP 2023, which began on February 6, 2023. The venture studio primarily focuses on pre-inception ideas, pre-seed, and seed-stage technology-powered startups.  BrightCHAMPS is tapping GCC’s emerging edtech space  Its first fund, BIM Investments I, was launched in January 2020 and has co-built and invested in 20 tech startups, as per a report by Wamda.   In June 2022, the fund launched its second venture investment fund called BIM Investments II, worth SAR120 million ($32 million).   For any press related queries or to share your press releases, write to us at [email protected].   Edited by Teja Lele logistics services  fintech venture capital investment Saudi Arabia Startups Just In 1 Investment [YS Exclusive] SoftBank-backed OfBusiness taps bankers for $500M IPO next year 2 News Slice receives NCLT approval for merger with North East Small Finance Bank 3 AI Gen Gaana.com: The Once Billion-Dollar Music Streaming Giant Sold for Just Rs.25 Lakhs! 4 Technology Govt invites bids from companies to provide AI services
 5 Startup Is edtech an online or offline play for India beyond the metros? This Testbook has answers