
  Banca di Roma has revealed the opening date of the highly-anticipated new restaurant.
 
  Signs first appeared at the former Zizzi unit in Royal Exchange Square in October 2022 teasing the new eatery.
 
  Now, following a massive overhaul of the building, Banca di Roma will open its doors on Saturday, March 11.
 
READ MORE: Glasgow restaurant Banca Di Roma opening soon - and they're hiring
 

 
  It's the first restaurant in Glasgow for the Cozzolino Brothers, Antonio, Pasquale, and Simone, who trained under London-based celebrity chef Francesco Mazzei.
 
  The brothers promise to bring the traditions and flavours from their third-generation family-owned Vesuvian tomato farm in the Campania region of Italy.
 
  Antonio said: “We’re just weeks away now and we simply can’t wait. 
 
  "The décor is more than we could have ever imagined, a wow moment when you walk through the door. 
 
  "We’ve worked hard on creating a menu that delivers a real Italian dining experience and we’re excited for everyone to try it.”
 

 
READ MORE: Glasgow restaurant Banca Di Roma teases opening date
 
  Customers can expect to walk into a striking open plan, two-storey listed building with black and white marble flooring and decadent detailing.
 
  The gastronomical offerings promise to deliver authentic Italian dishes with an "innovative flair".
 
  The Cozzolino Brothers have also secured an all-star front-of-house team led by general manager Rocco Morabito (previously from Novikov) and his deputy Filomena Visaggi (originally from Hakkasan).
 
  Customers can sign up for the newsletter here for a chance to snag a VIP soft launch booking opportunity.
 

 
                    Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website, so please act responsibly. We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention. You can make a complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
                 
                    Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.