Major Romanian electro-IT retailer Altex, which operates physical stores and an online store that hosts third-party sellers, purchased for an unspecified price a EUR 4.6 mln claim held by Banca Transilvania against insolvent online retailer of furniture and home decoration goods Vivre Deco, Wall-street.ro reported. Altex has expanded its activity in recent years to new product categories, including furniture, DIY, automotive products, toys, beverages and sanitary products. Vivre, known for selling affordable furniture and decorations through the online platform vivre.ro, would further diversify the range of products provided by Altex. The new creditor plans to further invest in Vivre and help it recover from the current financial situation. "We can help the company get out of insolvency to the extent the current management wants this too. We are open and flexible, but especially we are interested in identifying the best solutions, consistent with the strategic and financial objectives of the company," says Dan Ostahie, CEO and founder of Altex Romania. iulian@romania-insider.com (Photo source: Cristi Croitoru/Dreamstime.com) Major Romanian electro-IT retailer Altex, which operates physical stores and an online store that hosts third-party sellers, purchased for an unspecified price a EUR 4.6 mln claim held by Banca Transilvania against insolvent online retailer of furniture and home decoration goods Vivre Deco, Wall-street.ro reported. Altex has expanded its activity in recent years to new product categories, including furniture, DIY, automotive products, toys, beverages and sanitary products. Vivre, known for selling affordable furniture and decorations through the online platform vivre.ro, would further diversify the range of products provided by Altex. The new creditor plans to further invest in Vivre and help it recover from the current financial situation. "We can help the company get out of insolvency to the extent the current management wants this too. We are open and flexible, but especially we are interested in identifying the best solutions, consistent with the strategic and financial objectives of the company," says Dan Ostahie, CEO and founder of Altex Romania. iulian@romania-insider.com (Photo source: Cristi Croitoru/Dreamstime.com) Major Romanian electro-IT retailer Altex, which operates physical stores and an online store that hosts third-party sellers, purchased for an unspecified price a EUR 4.6 mln claim held by Banca Transilvania against insolvent online retailer of furniture and home decoration goods Vivre Deco, Wall-street.ro reported. Altex has expanded its activity in recent years to new product categories, including furniture, DIY, automotive products, toys, beverages and sanitary products. Vivre, known for selling affordable furniture and decorations through the online platform vivre.ro, would further diversify the range of products provided by Altex. The new creditor plans to further invest in Vivre and help it recover from the current financial situation. "We can help the company get out of insolvency to the extent the current management wants this too. We are open and flexible, but especially we are interested in identifying the best solutions, consistent with the strategic and financial objectives of the company," says Dan Ostahie, CEO and founder of Altex Romania. iulian@romania-insider.com (Photo source: Cristi Croitoru/Dreamstime.com)  Business Insider SRL is a carrier of data with personal character, registered in the “Registrul de Evidenta a Prelucrarilor de Date cu Caracter Personal” with the no. 28263. Romania-Insider.com is a trademark registered with the help of NOMENIUS and all exclusivity rights are reserved to the owner of Business Insider SRL. Any unauthorized use will be sanctioned according to the provisions of trademarks law 84/1998. © 2024 Romania Insider. All rights reserved.