TORONTO, Sept. 25, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Banxa Holdings Inc. (TSXV: BNXA) (OTCQX: BNXAF) (FSE: AC00) ("Banxa' or the "Company") today provides shareholders an update on the Company's progress over the recent weeks. Holger Arians, CEO of Banxa Holdings Inc., stated, "Banxa is seeing continued success from many key business wins, highlighted by new blue-chip partners attracted to Banxa's leading payments infrastructure. Looking ahead, we see long-term upward trajectory thanks to our local regulatory and compliance strategy that we have aggressively pursued over the last number of years in anticipation of this next stage of compliant Web3 growth." GENERAL BUSINESS UPDATES  Banxa continues to maintain a solid financial trajectory in the current bear market conditions and has set achieving cash flow breakeven as its primary objective. Some unaudited, preliminary financial highlights include: Furthermore, the Company is pleased to update shareholders on its considerable progress in growing its run rate total transaction volume by activating new major partnerships with noteworthy partners, and other business updates: Banxa also continues to deepen its relationships with key partners such as MetaMask, one of the largest digital wallets with more than 20 million users, to launch new features aimed to increase user experiences, conversion rates, and ultimately transaction volumes for both parties. An example of this is the recent exclusive rolling out of 1-click ApplePay on MetaMask. Read more in industry leading media publication, Decrypt, here. MANAGEMENT MARKET BUY  The Company is announcing that members of the Management team including Domenic Carosa (Chairman), Holger Arians (CEO), Zafer Qureshi (Director and Head of Corporate Affairs), Patrick Maguire (Chief Financial Officer), Richard Mico (U.S. CEO and Global Head of Legal, Risk & Compliance), Gregor Cooney (Chief Marketing Officer), Damien Di Cosmo (Head of People & Culture) and Phil Brown (US Chief Compliance Officer) will participate in a round of open market share purchases over the coming days. These purchases are being made in adherence with Banxa's company share trading policies, and they have been pre-approved by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Participating team members will file reports with Sedi in a timely manner. ADDITIONAL BUSINESS UPDATES To support Banxa's growing transaction volumes which require working capital to fulfil orders (where settlements to Banxa by payment service providers are delayed in some instances by up to four days), the Company is pleased to have continued support from its current and new working capital facility providers. These parties have entered into an unsecured credit agreement: Qureshi Family Office Buzzworks HB Super Holdings Pty Ltd  Ari Last CONTACTS Investors:Zafer Qureshi investors@banxa.com Media:WachsmanEthan Lylebanxa@wachsman.com ENDS ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORSPer: "Zafer Qureshi"Zafer Qureshi = Director and Head, Corporate Affairs, +1 416-347-4192 Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. Forward-Looking Information This press release contains statements including "forward-looking information" ("Forward-looking statements"). Forward-looking statements in this news release include statements regarding the date of the Meeting. In making the forward-looking statements in this release, the Company has applied certain factors and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable, including that the Company will hold the Meeting on the expected date. However, the forward-looking statements in this release are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Such uncertainties and risks may include, among others that the Company will hold the Meeting on the expected date. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The Company does not intend, and expressly disclaims any intention or obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.