InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort is situated at the heart of the Thanh Xuan Valley residential and tourism area, renowned for its distinctive pine city that spans 170 hectares. The area is surrounded by mountainsides and 50-year-old pine forests, and boasts of eight natural lakes and streams. The resort is located close to Dai Lai and Thanh Cao Lakes, and is less than an hour's drive from Hanoi city centre. Thanh Xuan Valley was designed to be an ideal destination for residential communities and upscale resort guests, particularly those who appreciate the InterContinental life. InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort is expected to open in 2027 with 171 hotel rooms and 97 private villas. It will boast a 5-star utility system that meets IHG's global standards, including a high-class restaurant, spa, and wellness area, as well as an infinity pool and conference rooms. The resort will also feature tree top villas, which are first-of-their-kind, luxury hotel rooms amidst the trees. Guests can enjoy a range of facilities, including a farm, a 10km trekking route, a zip line between the pine forests, parks, and shopping areas. With attention to detail and an exceptional guest experience, InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort is poised to become a premier destination resort and a valuable addition to the InterContinental Hotels & Resorts luxury global collection. IHG Hotels & Resorts is not only developing and managing the hotel and resort projects in Thanh Xuan Valley, but also directly managing and operating the Country Club by InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort. This unique Mediterranean-style clubhouse boasts over 11,300 square metres of space and offers many exclusive amenities for upper-class residents. At the signing ceremony, Adam Owen Riley, head of hospitality at BIM Group commented, "The signing of InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort marks the sixth collaboration between BIM Land, BIM Group, and IHG, and follows the success of luxury hotels and resorts in Phu Quoc, Ha Long, and Vientiane (Laos)." "Our goal is to provide unique experiences that are infused with cultural and lifestyle values, and we are excited to partner with IHG to deliver an unparalleled luxury product to the market. Thanh Xuan Valley and InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort aim to not only provide a refreshing experience, but also to redefine the concept of living and community for customers who appreciate natural values, lifestyle, and a special community at Thanh Xuan Valley," Riley continued. Paul Cunningham, senior director of operations for Southeast Asia and South Korea at IHG highlighted, "The InterContinental brand is renowned for weaving modern luxury design through its collection of iconic properties, from historic buildings to city landmarks and immersive resorts like InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley resort that celebrate local culture and nature." "As the world’s first and largest international luxury brand with over 200 InterContinental properties around the world, we are confident that the fantastic InterContinental brand experience, combined with its excellent location and the strong partnership between IHG and BIM Group, will make the InterContinental Thanh Xuan Valley Resort project a remarkable landmark in the collection." BIM Land JSC, a member of BIM Group, has successfully priced its inaugural US dollar bond for 5-year maturity at 7.375 per cent coupon to be listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX), with the transaction marking the first offshore bond offering by a Vietnamese issuer since 2019 and the first corporate green bond out of the country. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) signed a $107 million financial package with BIM Wind Power JSC, a subsidiary of BIM Group, to support the operation of an 88MW wind farm in Ninh Thuan province on Vietnam’s southcentral coast. Ahead of the Mid-Autumn Festival, InterContinental Saigon is presenting its 2023 mooncake collection with two elegant and sophisticated box designs. 
                                                                        By Thanh Van
  What the stars mean: ★ Poor ★ ★ Promising ★★★ Good ★★★★ Very good ★★★★★ Exceptional  Vietnam Investment Review under the Ministry of Planning and Investment  Editor-in-Chief: Le Trong Minh Deputy Editors-in-Chief: Bui Duc Hai, Nguyen Van Hong and Nguyen Quoc Viet Editorial Board Member: Dang Tuan Khanh Managing Editor: Nguyen Chi Mai Advertisement  | Contact us