Regular inspections and safety protocols in ports will be heightened following the capsizing of a ferry in Binangonan, Rizal that killed 27 people, the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) said. Rear Admiral Armand Balilo, the spokesperson of the PCG, also said stricter measures will be imposed on interisland ferries to prevent maritime accidents. Earlier this week, the motorized banca Princess Aya capsized in Laguna de Bay off the coast of Binangonan at the height of stormy weather in Luzon. Authorities also suspected that the ferry may have been overloaded with passengers. Balilo said investigations on the deadly incident are ongoing, but the ferry captain has already admitted that they carried more passengers than what was declared in the boat’s manifest. The official further said authorities are expected to complete their investigations next week. Charges are also expected to be filed against the captain and his crew, he said. Balilo said the PCG is also working with the Philippine National Police (PNP) on the maritime case. The official said the goal is to file charges against the captain and the crew of Princess Aya. The official also said it is likely that the earliest time that the investigation will be completed and the charges will be filed is on Monday, adding that the boat’s captain is currently detained. Reports said At 1 p.m. on Thursday, the Princess Aya capsized in Laguna Lake near Binangonan. The PCG said the death toll from the incident was 27, while 40 survived. The captain maintained that he was not aware that the boat was overloaded, authorities said. The PCG official said the charges to be filed would depend on the results of the investigation. As of the moment, PCG divers are still deployed for retrieval operations in case another body surfaces, the official said. Senator Jinggoy Estrada meanwhile extended his condolences to the families of the maritime accidents. He also said he is hopeful that justice will be given to the said families. “We must hold those responsible accountable for their actions, or inactions, that may have contributed to this tragedy. There must be full transparency in their conduct of comprehensive and impartial inquiry into the incident,” Estrada said. Macon Ramos-Araneta and Charles Dantes He also slammed unscrupulous boat operators who prioritize profits over the safety of passengers. He also called on authorities for more stringent measures to prevent another deadly maritime accident. © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.