Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg maintained a Buy rating on Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB – Research Report) today and set a price target of $34.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $28.58. According to TipRanks, Goldberg is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 8.6% and a 57.44% success rate. Goldberg covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Capital One Financial, Bank of America, and Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Fifth Third Bancorp with a $32.26 average price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on Fifth Third Bancorp’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending March 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.21 billion and a net profit of $558 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $2.02 billion and had a net profit of $562 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Fifth Third Bancorp engages in the provision of banking & financial services, retail & commercial banking, consumer lending services and investment advisory services through its subsidiary Fifth Third Bank. It operates through the following segments: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, Consumer Lending and Wealth & Asset Management. The Commercial Banking segment offers credit intermediation, cash management and financial services to large and middle-market businesses. The Branch Banking segment provides deposit, loan and lease products to individuals and small businesses. The Consumer Lending segment includes residential mortgage, home equity, automobile and indirect lending activities. The Wealth & Asset Management segment provides investment alternatives for individuals, companies and not-for-profit organizations. The company was founded in 1975 and is headquartered in Cincinnati, OH.  Read More on FITB: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks