Jackson Laboratory image: Greene has been serving in an interim capacity since October 2022.
view more  Credit: The Jackson Laboratory BAR HARBOR, MAINE  – The Jackson Laboratory, an independent, nonprofit biomedical research institution, has announced the appointment of Andy Greene, Ph.D., as JAX’s senior vice president of research. 
With this appointment, Greene, who has been serving in the position in an interim capacity since October 2022, will continue to play a pivotal role in shaping JAX’s research mission. He will be responsible for establishing and managing research policies and operations, as well as integrating and coordinating the diverse components of JAX to form a cohesive force in the field of genetic and genomic research. Collaborating with JAX's Scientific Directors in Bar Harbor, Maine and Farmington, Conn., Greene will focus on encouraging the organization’s outstanding scientists to strengthen their research programs at JAX and to pursue the exciting basic science discoveries that will empower the global biomedical community in its shared quest to improve human health. 
“This appointment is a testament to Andy’s leadership and exceptional scientific contributions – both those essential to basic research and translation to new treatments,” said Lon Cardon, Ph.D., FMedSci, president and CEO. “Throughout his tenure, Andy has consistently demonstrated a passion for innovation, a commitment to excellence, and dedication to mentoring and teaching, and we’re so pleased he will serve JAX in this role.”

Greene, a resident of Bar Harbor, Maine, joined JAX in September 2019 as professor and director, mass spectrometry and protein chemistry. Prior to JAX, he was on the faculty at the Medical College of Wisconsin, where he was the Robert D. and Patricia E. Professor of Biotechnology and Bioengineering. He also held appointments at Marquette University and the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. His lab uses multi-omics systems biology approaches to study blood pressure regulation, cardiovascular genomics and epigenomics, as well as membrane and cellular proteins and their role in cell signaling and cell-cell interaction.

“I’m honored to serve The Jackson Laboratory in this role and contribute to its vital mission,” Greene said. “This is an exciting time at JAX. With more than 60 faculty and their teams dedicated to discovering precise genomic solutions for disease, we’re poised to bridge the gaps between biological knowledge and medical progress to accelerate discovery and impact people around the world.” About The Jackson Laboratory
The Jackson Laboratory is an independent, nonprofit biomedical research institution with a National Cancer Institute-designated Cancer Center and nearly 3,000 employees in locations across the United States (Maine, Connecticut, California), Japan and China. Its mission is to discover precise genomic solutions for disease and empower the global biomedical community in the shared quest to improve human health. For more information, please visit www.jax.org. Disclaimer: AAAS and EurekAlert! are not responsible for the accuracy of news releases posted to EurekAlert! by contributing institutions or for the use of any information through the EurekAlert system. Media Contact 
                                    Cara McDonough
                    
					Jackson Laboratory

                cara.mcdonough@jax.org
            
        
                    Office: 919-696-3854
 Jackson Laboratory 

 

 Copyright © 2024 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Copyright © 2024 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) 