
                    Friday, July 7, 2023 at 12:00 AM
                 
                        By Travis Thayer
                                                    

                                @TheTravisThayer
                            
 
            The Toddfather will be at Barstool Sports inside Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg on Monday for a meet and greet. 
          (Lawrenceburg, Ind.) - Former Cincinnati Red and 2015 Home Run Derby Champion, Todd Frazier, is coming to Lawrenceburg. The Toddfather will headline a meet and greet at Barstool Sportsbook inside Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg on Monday, July 10. The free event will take place from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Seating is limited and attendees must be at least 21 years old. Frazier, a two-time Home Run Derby participant, won the 2015 Home Run Derby on his home field in Cincinnati. He is expected to speak about his experience competing in the Home Run Derby, his 11-year professional baseball career and provide thoughts while attendees watch this year’s Home Run Derby. “We’re excited to welcome The Toddfather back to the Cincinnati Tri-State and to host a fun event at our award-winning sportsbook and casino,” said Jerry Abner, Vice President Marketing at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. “Fans will get a chance to hear some great stories from Todd about participating in the Derby and have a chance to win autographed baseballs and more while watching this year’s Derby on over 60 hi-def TVs in Barstool Sportsbook.” Guests are not allowed to bring memorabilia to the event and there will be no autograph session. Meet and greet and photo opportunities will be available. To learn more about upcoming events, visit www.hollywoodindiana.com. 
                    Work can start inside once the new roof is installed. 
                 
                    All community members are welcome to explore the new school wing that houses its on-site instructional welding lab.
                 
                    ISP-Versailles made the arrest last Thursday. 
                 
                    Local counties also saw an uptick in unemployment last month. 
                 
                    Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over enforcement campaign runs through Sept. 2. 
                 
                    A new Indiana law requires real estate brokers to obtain a written agreement from any buyers they are representing.
                 
                                    Low-cost basketball clinics for grades 3-8
                                 
                                    The PCC will host a movie night fundraiser at the Greendale Cinema on Thursday, August 29th at 7 P.M.  
We will be viewing The Forge, a sequel to War Room.
                                 
                                    Lawrenceburg American Legion Hall Rental
                                 Work can start inside once the new roof is installed.  All community members are welcome to explore the new school wing that houses its on-site instructional welding lab. ISP-Versailles made the arrest last Thursday.  This season marks the 30th anniversary of East Central's first state championship season.  Report missing sports scores and stats to news@eaglecountryonline.com Report missing high school sports scores and stats to news@eaglecountryonline.com.  Your Hometown Radio Station playing Old Dominion - No Hard Feelings