To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. While Drake's dad jokes may not be for everybody, his son Adonis thinks he's pretty funny. The father-son duo sat down for a joint interview with Barstool Sports on Sunday during which host Caleb Pressley asked the five-year-old all about his dad. When jokingly asked if he would be able to read if he had a better dad, Adonis replied, “This is my better dad…That's a funny dad. Also, he does a lot of jokes.” Pressley began his “Sundae with Drake” interview by questioning the rapper's son about whether or not he's nice to the other kids at school and if he's ever been in a fight. The host asked, “Did you ever punch anybody in the nuts?” to which Adonis let out a laugh, replying, “No, never,” before adding, “That's funny.” Later on in the interview, Pressley asks Drake if Adonis has ever tried to “cock-block” his dates so that he doesn't have to “split his inheritance” with any future siblings. Drake laughed in response, saying “No, not really,” although he admitted he did have to think about it for a second. The Grammy winner added that his son “is always vibing out with me” and “telling me how great I am as a father, as a single father.” As the spokesperson for a cryptocurrency gambling website, the pair's conversation naturally turned towards placing wagers, and the rapper revealed that his favorite thing to bet on is “fatherhood.” And it seems that cracking people up runs in the family. Last year, Drake shared a video on Instagram of himself and Adonis spending some time together and practicing their French. At the beginning of the clip, Adonis asks his dad if he is “going to be much bigger than me,” to which he replied, “I don't think so, you're pretty tall.” He then asked the 5-year-old if he's one day going to be even taller than him and he said, “Yeah! I'm gonna be, like, old.” Adonis then asks Drake if he wants him to teach him how to speak “en français” as his mother is Sophie Brussaux, a French artist. The child then says a number of words in the language which Drake carefully repeats back to him. At the end of the sentence, the musician asks what he said, and Adonis explains, “I said, 'When you're older, you're all broken, and you're gonna turn back into space.'” But the “Falling Back” singer remained skeptical, asking, “Is that really what you said or are you just making stuff up?” Adonis laughed, but wouldn't say whether or not he's telling the truth. "You're a funny guy," his dad told him. DNC 2024: Live Updates From the Democratic National Convention September Cover Star Jenna Ortega Is Settling Into Fame Listen Now: VF’s DYNASTY Podcast Explores the Royals’ Most Challenging Year Exclusive: How Saturday Night Captures SNL’s Wild Opening Night Inside Prince Harry’s Final Showdown With the Murdoch Empire The Twisted True Love Story of a Diamond Heiress and a Reality Star By signing up you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vanity Fair Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment