Update: Ja Morant has been suspended by the Memphis Grizzlies pending an NBA review of a viral video that showed Morant with an apparent handgun. Click here for the latest update.  Two months after his NBA suspension for flashing a gun on Instagram Live, Memphis Grizzlies star Ja Morant was seen brandishing a gun in another live video that went viral Sunday morning. It was not immediately clear when the video was captured. The video, which featured Morant sitting in the passenger seat of a car and waving the gun while a song by rapper NBA YoungBoy played in the background, was captured on the "_dtap2" Instagram account and also included Morant's friend, Davonte Pack. Ja Morant was seen on live with a gun AGAIN pic.twitter.com/41iL7Hqmes — Barstool Sports (@barstoolsports) May 14, 2023 "We are aware of the social media video involving Ja Morant," the Grizzlies said in a statement Sunday morning. "He is suspended from all team activities pending League review. We have no further comment at this time." It comes on the heels of a highly publicized March 4 incident in which Morant filmed himself on Instagram Live holding a gun inside a Denver area strip club. Morant did not face any criminal charges, but was subsequently suspended for eight games by NBA commissioner Adam Silver following an investigation by the league. Morant also left the Grizzlies to seek counseling for what he said was to learn how to handle stress better. Upon returning, Morant said he would no longer be going on Instagram Live in the future. “Just being more responsible, more smarter. That’s pretty much it for me," Morant said at the time. "Obviously, I made mistakes in the past, caused a lot of negative attention not only for me, but my family and my team and the organization, and I’m completely sorry for that. So my job now is, like I said, to be more responsible and more smarter and don’t cause any of that no more.” This is the latest of a string of incidents off the court involving Morant. GIANNOTTO: Ja Morant acted like a petulant child. The Memphis Grizzlies couldn't ignore it anymore | Giannotto STEPPING UP AS LEADERS: Why the Grizzlies are relying on Desmond Bane, Ja Morant and Jaren Jackson Jr. as leaders In January, after an altercation during a Grizzlies-Indiana Pacers game that included Pack briefly walking onto the court as part of a confrontation between Morant and Pacers guard Andrew Nembhard, a vehicle Morant was in reportedly “trained a red laser” on members traveling with the Pacers in the FedExForum loading dock area. After an NBA investigation, the league could not corroborate if the laser came from a gun or not. However, Pack was banned from attending Grizzlies games for a year Last July, Morant was accused of punching a teen, later identified as Joshua Holloway, during a pickup basketball game at Morant's home. Morant is still embroiled in a lawsuit initiated by Holloway. A few days before that in July 2022, Morant was also involved in an incident at The Finish Line shoe store inside Wolfchase Galleria in which he and nine friends showed up and allegedly threatened a mall security officer. An employee at The Finish Line later alleged in an interview with The Washington Post that Morant also directly threatened him as he hid in the back of the store. "I have to be better with my decision-making," Morant said during player exit interviews earlier this month. "That’s pretty much it. Off-the-court issues affected us as an organization. Yeah, just more discipline.” Morant missed out on a supermax contract worth $231 million after not making an All-NBA team this year. His franchise-record five-year, $193 million contract extension will kick in this season. The Grizzlies, the No. 2 team in the Western conference, were bounced out of the playoffs in the first round by the Los Angeles Lakers. Afterwards, Morant expressed satisfaction with how he had conducted himself after his March suspension. “Less drama," he said. "Less Ja on the blogs for something I said.” This article originally appeared on Memphis Commercial Appeal: Ja Morant flashes gun in latest viral video, months after suspension Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer is joined by J.E. Skeets to go through the NBA news of the day and preview the 6 teams that pose the biggest challenge to Team USA at the Paris Olympics. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Get ready for the most fun you'll ever have in school. Our courses have something for everyone from beginner to seasoned pro. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season.