H F T L YT I 
Contact Us
 
Canvas
 
Student Account
 The ability to manage projects efficiently has become essential for leaders in any field. Approved by the Project Management Institute, our part-time certificate program provides a practical foundation for new or experienced project managers. You’ll learn a combination of leadership and technical skills that will allow you to successfully lead any project from planning through completion. Courses: 13
Format: Part-time
Location: Online Next online info session: 
Thu, 12 Dec 2024 12:00 PM PST
RSVP  Format Part-time Location Online Program completion 5–24 months (from start date of first course)
To graduate, pass all courses required to complete the program. Course duration 1–2 days Course work 7–14 hours/week  Schedule Fri/Sat 8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Pacific Time Courses Required courses (take in any order, except PMC165, which should be completed last): Learning materials See individual courses for textbook details Cost $430–$860/course (not including textbook)
$75 program application fee
$85 approx. textbook cost
$8,760 total program costs Application info No application deadline. Take individual courses and apply to the program at any time. Apply now StrongerBC future skills grant: Applications to use the grant for this program are closed as we have now reached capacity.  Application requirements  Register for individual courses at any time, with the option to apply to the program later. Enroll in the certificate program to: Apply Now To stay informed about this program, please fill out the form below. 

              Yes, sign me up for the project management email list. About our Collection of Personal Information policy. Reserve your spot to explore the program and chat live with program staff. An electrician for over 30 years, Glen Pedersen has transitioned into a career that makes use of his technical expertise and project management training. Read more A natural people person and mentor, Gloria Venczel is a graduate of SFU’s Urban Design Certificate and the principal of Cityscape Design Inc, a firm specializing in pedestrian-oriented urban design, streetscape design and sustainable cities planning.Read more From sporadic work to a permanent position in the construction industry, Rufo Laroco has come a long way. Recently graduating from SFU’s Project Management Certificate program, the Philippines immigrant credits what he learned to placing him on a straight path to success.Read more 2300–515 West Hastings Street
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada V6B 5K3

learn@sfu.ca

Phone: 778-782-8000
Toll-free: 1-844-782-8877 Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh), q̓íc̓əy̓ (Katzie), kʷikʷəƛ̓əm (Kwikwetlem), Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside. Terms & ConditionsPrivacy policy© Simon Fraser University
