The actress won over fans when she took on the role of Daphne in the period drama based on Julia Quinn's romance books, but won't be coming back in the third series Bridgerton star Phoebe Dynevor revealed she won't be returning to season three of the hit Netflix series.  The actress won over fans when she took on the role of Daphne in the period drama based on Julia Quinn's romance books. In the first season, the series focused on Daphne and her blossoming relationship with Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings (played by Regé-Jean Page). She had a smaller role in season two as the story shifted to her on-screen brother Anthony (portrayed by Jonathan Bailey) and Kate Sharma (played byg Simone Ashley).  As they 27-year-old was asked if she makes an appearance in the Netflix hit's third series, she explained to Screen Rant : "Sadly not in season 3. Potentially in the future.  "But season three, I'm just excited to watch as a viewer." The plot of season three will focus on the relationship between Colin Bridgerton (played by Luke Newton) and Penelope Featherington (portrayed by Nicola Coughlan) - who viewers discovered in previous seasons is also Lady Whistledown. Nicola teased the plot in May of last year, revealing: "Like Lady Whistledown, I have been keeping a secret for quite some time and I can confirm to you all that season 3 is Colin and Penelope’s love story.” It will be following Julia Quinn's fourth book Romancing Mr Bridgerton and completely skipping the third instalment, An Offer From A Gentleman. Penelope will be giving Colin the cold shoulder after she overheard some disappointing comments about her in the series two finale. Her long-held crush for Colin ended on a sour note after he told a group of gentlemen: “Are you mad? I would never dream of courting Penelope Featherington - not in your wildest fantasies.”  The plot will follow Penelope’s search for a suitable spouse who will give her the independence to continue her lucrative sideline Lady Whistledown and freedom away from her mother Lady Portia Featherington (played by Polly Walker) and her sisters Prudence (played by Bessie Carter) and Philippa (portrayed by Harriet Cains). While Penelope starts receiving unprecedented attention from numerous suitors, Colin begins to realise she was the one who truly appreciated him.  Earlier this year, it was reported that filming of the new season was thrown into chaos after bosses decided to rewrite a number of scripts.  It is understood that executive producer Shonda Rhimes deemed a set of storylines on the show to be ‘too dark’ for the racy drama.  * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.  Obsessed with Netflix? Get the latest headlines, releases and insider-gossip direct to your inbox with our Binge-worthy newsletter