There are also plans for a community hub in Camborne complete with library and performance space Get the latest politics news and headlines from Cornwall Live, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest politics news and headlines from Cornwall Live, straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Plans to build new lodges at a luxury holiday park were among the latest planning applications submitted to Cornwall Council in the week beginning July 17. Every week more than 100 applications are validated by Cornwall Council and we have selected some of the more interesting proposals. All planning applications submitted to the council have to be validated and are available for inspection by the public. Anyone is also allowed to submit comments about the applications - whether in support or objection.  The majority of applications are decided by planning officers at the council under delegated powers. However, some applications will go before elected councillors who sit on planning committees. No dates have been set for when the planning applications below will be determined. They can be viewed by going to the planning portal on Cornwall Council’s website.  Read next: Council bigwig says he'd replace New County Hall with a hotel New fishing lodges, Gwel An Mor, Portreath Applicant Cove Communities has applied to demolish ten one-bedroom fishing lodges and other buildings at the Gwel An Mor Holiday Park luxury resort and replace them with nine high-quality three and four bed lodges, "providing an enhanced accommodation offer in an existing sustainable location". The site currently offers 149 units of "luxury accommodation". The applicant states that the proposals will provide new high-quality accommodation for guests, offering luxury short and long-term stays, while allowing guests to stay in close proximity to Portreath. The existing lodges are identified as requiring upgrading to "meet more discerning client preferences" due to their current limited internal floor area. The proposal would provide improvements to accommodation while offering a series of landscape enhancements. A selection of units would be provided with ramped access making the development accessible to a wider range of guests. Community hub facilities, Camborne Cornwall Council has lodged a planning performance agreement for the creation of new community hub facilities including a library and performance space at the Basset Centre, Basset Road, Camborne. Beach apartments, Newquay  An application has been received for a residential development of four apartments with associated stores and landscaping at Surf Beach, Esplanade Road in Newquay on the northern side of Pentire, overlooking Fistral Bay.  The proposed four-storey building would replace a current residential building on the site which is located near Fistral Beach Apartments and Fistral Beach Hotel.  