
  Three months of gas pipe upgrades are about to begin between Scorrier and Redruth, leading to a number of road closures and traffic restrictions.
 
  Wales & West Utilities is starting the second phase of its work, which it said was “essential to keep the gas flowing safely to heat and power local homes and businesses”.
 
  Work will begin on April 24 and, barring any engineering difficulties, is expected to be completed at the beginning of July.
 
  The company said it had worked closely with Cornwall Council to plan the scheme and it had been agreed that traffic management will be in place throughout. This currently includes:
 
  • A3047 dual carriageway eastbound from Jon Davey Drive to Treleigh – a road closure from Basset Road to Cornwall Animal Hospital between April 25 and May 15
 
  • A3047 dual carriageway eastbound from Jon Davey Drive to Treleigh – a lane closure from Avers Interchange to Basset Road between April 25 to July 7
 
  • A3047 dual carriageway eastbound from Avers Roundabout to Jon Davey Drive – a lane closure and speed reduction between April 25 and July 7
 
  • Avers Interchange – a lane closure on Avers Interchange between April 25 and July 7
 
  • A3047 dual carriageway westbound from Treleigh to Jon Davey Drive – a speed restriction between April 25 – July 7
 
  Signposted diversions will be in place for HGV drivers and motorists are being advised to allow extra travel time.
 
READ NEXT: Full weekend closure of part of Cornwall A30 to follow two nights of work this week
 
  Wales & West Utilities’ Abby Smith is managing this gas pipe upgrade work and said: “While most of the gas network is underground and out of sight, it plays a central role in the daily lives of people across the area.
 
  “Whether it’s heating your home, making the family dinner or having a hot bath, we understand how important it is for your gas supply to be safe and reliable and there when you need it.
 
  “We know that working in areas like this is not ideal, but it really is essential to make sure we keep the gas flowing to homes and businesses in the area, and to make sure the gas network is fit for the future.
 
  “We’ll have a team of gas engineers on site throughout the project to make sure our work is completed as safely and as quickly as possible while keeping disruption to a minimum.
 
  “This work is essential to keep the gas flowing to local homes and businesses today, and to make sure the gas network is ready to transport hydrogen and biomethane, so we can all play our part in a green future.”
 
  Anyone with questions about the work can contact Wales & West Utilities’ customer service team on freephone 0800 912 2999, or on social media via @WWUtilities on Twitter or Facebook.com/WWUtilities.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.