Mischievous pet goats in Oberlin, Ohio, stole apples from under their owner’s nose in early October – only to have their haul swiped by a hungry basset hound. In a video posted to Facebook, Tammy Tunison and her pet goats had gone inside for lunch. To prevent one of her goats, Alex, from accessing the snack drawer, she locked it. However, Alex found an alternative snack in the form of apples on a cart. The video shows Alex breaking a piece of the apple off by hitting it on the cart. Oberlin-based farmer Tammy Tunison regularly films humorous videos of her goats and other pets, posting them to her Hobby Farm Facebook account. Credit: Tammy Tunison via Storyful TAMMY TUNISON: Hang on a second. - What? [LAUGHING] TAMMY TUNISON: What are you doing? [LAUGHING] Oh, baby. Did you eat the apple? Come here. No. Don't go after the new one. You want the yellow one, that's fine. Don't get a new one. Let's see, if he does it again. [LAUGHING] He's giving it. [LAUGHING] Bess just took it. Bess took his apple. - So Bess stole the apple? TAMMY TUNISON: Yes. Oh, goodness. Now she's got the apple. She loves the apples too. What you looking for? What you looking for [INAUDIBLE]? Looking for an apple? [LAUGHING] What you doing? Eating apple? [LAUGHING] You're crazy, boy. [LAUGHING] Crazy baby. Oh, junior. Are you chewing you're cud, now that you ate enough? You're licking your lips from all that apple? Are you licking your lips from all that apple? Yeah. Oh, my gosh. She's eating it like normal. Oh, I don't know how they even know how to do that. [LAUGHING] Bess is going to take it. But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. I'd never really thought about it before, but I wouldn't expect this to be the origins of 'o'clock'. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Rochelle Humes opened up about her three children while chatting to Channel 5 stars on ITV's This Morning