The market for patient-controlled analgesia pumps is anticipated to reach US$ 421.9 million in 2022 and grow at a CAGR of 5.2% to US$ 699.9 million by 2032. PCA pumps will dominate the market globally in 2021, according to a recent study by Future Market Insights, with a share of roughly 75.5%. PCA or patient-controlled analgesia pumps is a way with which analgesic can be self-administered by the patient as and when needed. Patient-controlled analgesia pumps are not used to treat long term pains. PCA is used in various applications such as oncology or chemo therapy, pediatrics, gastroenterology, hematology and diabetes. There are several benefits of using PCA. It allows complete control on the pain treatment. It also assists in preventing the formation of blood clots and promotes healing at a faster rate. Identify key trends, drivers, and challenges in the market, which will help vendors improve their strategies to stay ahead of their competitors. View our PDF Sample Report @ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/reports/sample/rep-gb-5710 However, there are certain disadvantages, the main aspect being an occurrence of an over dost or an under dose that can take place in case of improper settings and programming of the device. Government initiatives to boost home medication, rising awareness about patient-controlled analgesia pumps, and affordable costs are few of the aspects contributing to the expansion of patient-controlled analgesia pumps market at a global level. The global patient-controlled analgesia pumps market is projected to grow at a high CAGR during the period of forecast and is estimated to reflect a valuation of above US$ 500 Mn by the end of the year of forecast. Global Patient-Controlled Analgesia Pumps Market: Dynamics The growth of the global patient-controlled analgesia pumps market is influenced by aspects such as various advantages of PCA system over conventional continuous infusion systems, increasing standardization for reducing costs in hospitals, development of quality indicators for patient-controlled analgesia pumps, modernization with a view to reduce errors, increasing adoption of PCA owing to increasing prevalence of cancer, pain and diabetes, rising forward integration and increasing demand for PCA in rental and homecare services. Are you looking for customized information related to the latest trends, drivers, and challenges? Speak to Our Analyst@ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/ask-question/rep-gb-5710 These factors have contributed to the growth of the global market. On the contrary, lack of skilled manpower and lack of standard usage guidelines and vast product recalls are hampering the growth of the global patient-controlled analgesia pumps market. Various trends have been observed, to name a few, rapid med-tech progress, shifting production base to emerging economies, user-friendly advanced equipment and fragmented market. Opportunities such as increasing production base for smart pumps with bigger drug libraries and expanding production base for PCA, ambulatory and other pumps have been boosting the growth of the global market. Segmental Highlights The global patient-controlled analgesia pumps market has been segmented by product type, by end user, by application and by region. Last few days to get reports at discounted prices, offer expires soon! Request Discount@ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/request-discount/rep-gb-5710 The research report has also profiled various leading players in the global patient-controlled analgesia pumps market. Companies like Becton Dickinson and Company, Baxter International, B.Braun Melsungen AG, Terumo Corporation, Ace Medical Co. Ltd., Micrel Medical Devices, Hospira (Pfizer Inc.), Fresenius Kabi Group and Smiths Group plc., have been profiled in this research report. 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.