
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  Burlingame, Sept. 07, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --  The global   Patient-centric Healthcare App   market   size was valued at $   9,760.4   M   illion in 2022, exhibiting a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of   39.1   % from 2023 to 2030,   according to a new study conducted by   Coherent Market Insights   , Inc.  Patient-centric healthcare apps are digital tools that prioritize the requirements and preferences of each patient. These apps offer varifeatures such as scheduling appointment, medication reminders, communication with healthcare providers or professionals, and health record access. As these apps foon user convenience and empowerment, they aim to improve healthcare outcomes and patient engagement.   Request Sample Report at:     Key Industry Insights & Findings from the report:   In December 2021, Baxter announced acquisition of Hilrom, a provider of digital healthcare solution. With this acquisition, Baxter will gain a wider access to care globally with product pipeline and digital care services. In September 2021, Leidos announced partnership with Nuance for integrating the platform and omnichannel development tools of Nuance for designing and delivering custom patient engagement solutions. Global patient-centric healthcare app market is expected to exhibit a CAGR of 39.1% during the forecast period. The patient-centric healthcare app market is growing rapidly in response to the increasing digitization in healthcare industry.   On the basis of Mode of Operation  , Phone-based Segment is expected to dominate the market during the forecast period and this is attributed to the increased adoption of mHealth solutions all over the world.   On the basis of Application  , Wellness Management Segment is expected to dominate the market during the forecast period and this is attributed to the increasing use of digital applications or mHealth for wellness management.   On the basis of Geography  , North America is expected to hold a dominant position over the forecast period, due to rise in rise in prevalence of chronic diseases, increasing foon patient centric healthcare and increasing old age population in the region. Key players operating in the global patient-centric healthcare app market include Baxter International Inc. (HillRom Services, Inc.), Bayer AG, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc., Novartis AG, IBM, Siemens Healthineers AG, Boston Scientific Corporation, Pfizer Inc., ASSURECARE LLC (IPATIENT CARE), Koninklijke Philips NV, Oracle (Cerner Corporation), MobileSmith Inc., Athenahealth Inc., Merck KgaA, and MFine Pvt Ltd.   Read full market research report, "   Patient-Centric Healthcare App Market, By Mode of Operation (Phone-based, Web-based, and Hybrid Patient-centric Apps), By Application (Wellness Management, Disease and Treatment Management, and Other Applications)   ,   And By Geography,   Market Size & Share Analysis - Growth Trends & Forecasts, 2023-2030   ", published by Coherent Market Insights   .     Key Trends and Analysis of the Global   Patient-Centric Healthcare App   Market:   The adoption of HER and mHealth is growing rapidly and this trend is expected to boost growth of the global patient-centric healthcare app market over the forecast period. With growing digitalization and digitization, healthcare delivery has improved patient engagement, management of patient care, and delivery of integrated healthcare services. Digital health solutions such as mHealth and HER in conditions like chronic disease offer support to patients to promote behaviors, enhance medication compliance, improve their communication with healthcare professionals. This is further reducing the time period of hospital stays for patients.   Get your Customized Research Report:     Patient-centric Healthcare App Market Report Coverage       Report Attribute     Details       Market size value in 2022     US$   13,537.6   m   illion       Forecast Period:     2023   to 2030       Growth rate     CAGR of   39.1   % from 2023   to 2030       Base year for estimation     2022       Historical data     2017 - 2021       Forecast period     2023   - 2030       Market Drivers   :   The prevalence of chronic diseases is increasing all over the world. The treatment of chronic diseases need continumonitoring and evaluation of physiological changes in patients to offer appropriate medication and diagnostics. According to WHO (World Health Organization) cardiovascular diseases cause most noncommunicable disease deaths, with nearly 17.9 million deaths per year, while cancers cause 9.3 million, chronic respiratory diseases cause 4.1 million deaths, and 2.0 million by diabetes. Thus, prevalence of chronic diseases is expected to support growth of this market in the coming future.   Rise in global old age population to fuel the market growth   The increase in geriatric population all over the world is driving the demand for patient-centric healthcare apps. As per the National Council of Aging, geriatric population is majorly impacted by varichronic diseases. Nearly 95% of this population suffer from at least one chronic disease, and more than 80% population suffer from two or more chronic diseases. As a result, the demand for patient-centric healthcare app is increasing globally, which in turn is likely to boost the market growth in the near future.   Market Opportunities   :   Rise in adoption of patient-centric healthcare apps all over the world is creating major business opportunities in the global patient-centric healthcare app market. For instance, in May 2022, MyHealthcare and Sakra World Hospital in collaboration introduced a patient-centric digital health platform for delivering 360-degree patient care outcomes. This new platform is designed to help patients manage their needs of healthcare with ease. Such activities are creating lucrative opportunities in the global market.   Buy Now & Get Exclusive Discount on this Business Complete Report  :     Detailed Segmentation:      Global Patient-Centric Healthcare App Market, By Mode of Operation:    Phone-based   Web-based   Hybrid Patient-centric Apps     Global Patient-Centric Healthcare App Market, By Application:    Wellness Management   Disease and Treatment Management   Other Applications     Global Patient-Centric Healthcare App Market, By Geography:    North America   U.S.   Canada    Europe   Germany   Italy   U.K.   France   Spain   Russia   Rest of Europe    Asia Pacific   China   Japan   Australia   India   ASEAN   South Korea   Rest of Asia Pacific    Latin America   Brazil   Mex  Argentina   Rest of Latin America    Middle East & Africa   GCC Countries   Israel   South Africa   Rest of Middle East & Africa       Company Profiles   :     Bayer AG   Novartis AG   Siemens Healthineers AG   Pfizer Inc.   Koninklijke Philips NV   MobileSmith Inc.   Merck KgaA   MFine Pvt Ltd.   Athenahealth Inc.   Oracle (Cerner Corporation)   ASSURECARE LLC (IPATIENT CARE)   Boston Scientific Corporation   International Business Machines Corporation   Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc.   Baxter International Inc.    Related Market Intelligence Reports:   Assistive Technology Market , By Product Type (Mobility Devices, Hearing Aids, Vision and Reading Aids, Communication Devices, Daily Living Aids, Prosthetics and Orthotics, Assistive Software and Apps, Others (cognitive aids, sensory stimulation devices, environmental control systems)), By Disability Type (Mobility Impairment, Hearing Impairment, Visual Impairment, Speech and Language Impairment, Cognitive Impairment, Others (autism, developmental disorders, multiple disabilities)), Real-world Data (RWD) Market , By Source (Electronic health records (EHRs), Claims data, Pharmacy data, Patient-reported outcomes (PROs), Disease registries, Other sources), By Application (Drug development and approvals, Market access and reimbursement/coverage decisions, Post-market surveillance, Clinical research, Other applications) Health Insurance Market , By Distribution Channel (Direct Sales, Broker/Agents, Banks, and Others), By Insurance Type (Diseases Insurance and Medical Insurance), By Coverage (Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs), Point of Service (POS), Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs), and Exclusive Provider Organizations (EPOs)), By End User (Group and Individuals), By Age Group (Senior Citizens, Adult, and Minors)   Browse through Coherent Market Insights   Healthcare IT   Research Reports.     About Us:     Coherent Market Insights  is a global market intelligence and consulting organization focused on assisting our plethora of clients achieve transformational growth by helping them make critical business decisions. We are headquartered in India, having sales office at global financial capital in the U.S. and sales consultants in United Kingdom and Japan. Our client base includes players from across varibusiness verticals in over 57 countries worldwide. We create value for clients through our highly reliable and accurate reports. We are also committed in playing a leading role in offering insights in varisectors post-COVID-19 and continue to deliver measurable, sustainable results for our clients.   Follow Us:   LinkedIn   |   Twitter      Tags patient centric app patient centric app market patient centric app industry patient centric market size Related Links   Healthcare Revenue Cycle Management Market   Bioinformatics Market   India Geriatric Care Services Market   Pet Insurance Market   Healthcare Facilities Management Market   Virtual ICU Market   Women Health App Market   U.S. Healthcare Staffing Market   U.S. Home Healthcare Market   U.S. Digital Therapeutics Market   Green Hospitals Market   U.S. Corporate Wellness Market   Healthcare ERP Market   Smart Home Healthcare Market   Healthcare Fabrics Market   Health Insurance Market   Healthcare BPO Market   Fitness Trackers Market   Crispr Genomic Cure Market   Digital Therapeutics Market  MENAFN07092023004107003653ID1107025308    Request Sample Report at:     Key Industry Insights & Findings from the report:   In December 2021, Baxter announced acquisition of Hilrom, a provider of digital healthcare solution. With this acquisition, Baxter will gain a wider access to care globally with product pipeline and digital care services. In September 2021, Leidos announced partnership with Nuance for integrating the platform and omnichannel development tools of Nuance for designing and delivering custom patient engagement solutions. Global patient-centric healthcare app market is expected to exhibit a CAGR of 39.1% during the forecast period. The patient-centric healthcare app market is growing rapidly in response to the increasing digitization in healthcare industry.   On the basis of Mode of Operation  , Phone-based Segment is expected to dominate the market during the forecast period and this is attributed to the increased adoption of mHealth solutions all over the world.   On the basis of Application  , Wellness Management Segment is expected to dominate the market during the forecast period and this is attributed to the increasing use of digital applications or mHealth for wellness management.   On the basis of Geography  , North America is expected to hold a dominant position over the forecast period, due to rise in rise in prevalence of chronic diseases, increasing foon patient centric healthcare and increasing old age population in the region. Key players operating in the global patient-centric healthcare app market include Baxter International Inc. (HillRom Services, Inc.), Bayer AG, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc., Novartis AG, IBM, Siemens Healthineers AG, Boston Scientific Corporation, Pfizer Inc., ASSURECARE LLC (IPATIENT CARE), Koninklijke Philips NV, Oracle (Cerner Corporation), MobileSmith Inc., Athenahealth Inc., Merck KgaA, and MFine Pvt Ltd.   Read full market research report, "   Patient-Centric Healthcare App Market, By Mode of Operation (Phone-based, Web-based, and Hybrid Patient-centric Apps), By Application (Wellness Management, Disease and Treatment Management, and Other Applications)   ,   And By Geography,   Market Size & Share Analysis - Growth Trends & Forecasts, 2023-2030   ", published by Coherent Market Insights   .     Key Trends and Analysis of the Global   Patient-Centric Healthcare App   Market:   The adoption of HER and mHealth is growing rapidly and this trend is expected to boost growth of the global patient-centric healthcare app market over the forecast period. With growing digitalization and digitization, healthcare delivery has improved patient engagement, management of patient care, and delivery of integrated healthcare services. Digital health solutions such as mHealth and HER in conditions like chronic disease offer support to patients to promote behaviors, enhance medication compliance, improve their communication with healthcare professionals. This is further reducing the time period of hospital stays for patients.   Get your Customized Research Report:     Patient-centric Healthcare App Market Report Coverage     Market Drivers   :   The prevalence of chronic diseases is increasing all over the world. The treatment of chronic diseases need continumonitoring and evaluation of physiological changes in patients to offer appropriate medication and diagnostics. According to WHO (World Health Organization) cardiovascular diseases cause most noncommunicable disease deaths, with nearly 17.9 million deaths per year, while cancers cause 9.3 million, chronic respiratory diseases cause 4.1 million deaths, and 2.0 million by diabetes. Thus, prevalence of chronic diseases is expected to support growth of this market in the coming future.   Rise in global old age population to fuel the market growth   The increase in geriatric population all over the world is driving the demand for patient-centric healthcare apps. As per the National Council of Aging, geriatric population is majorly impacted by varichronic diseases. Nearly 95% of this population suffer from at least one chronic disease, and more than 80% population suffer from two or more chronic diseases. As a result, the demand for patient-centric healthcare app is increasing globally, which in turn is likely to boost the market growth in the near future.   Market Opportunities   :   Rise in adoption of patient-centric healthcare apps all over the world is creating major business opportunities in the global patient-centric healthcare app market. For instance, in May 2022, MyHealthcare and Sakra World Hospital in collaboration introduced a patient-centric digital health platform for delivering 360-degree patient care outcomes. This new platform is designed to help patients manage their needs of healthcare with ease. Such activities are creating lucrative opportunities in the global market.   Buy Now & Get Exclusive Discount on this Business Complete Report  :     Detailed Segmentation:     Company Profiles   :     Related Market Intelligence Reports:   Assistive Technology Market , By Product Type (Mobility Devices, Hearing Aids, Vision and Reading Aids, Communication Devices, Daily Living Aids, Prosthetics and Orthotics, Assistive Software and Apps, Others (cognitive aids, sensory stimulation devices, environmental control systems)), By Disability Type (Mobility Impairment, Hearing Impairment, Visual Impairment, Speech and Language Impairment, Cognitive Impairment, Others (autism, developmental disorders, multiple disabilities)), Real-world Data (RWD) Market , By Source (Electronic health records (EHRs), Claims data, Pharmacy data, Patient-reported outcomes (PROs), Disease registries, Other sources), By Application (Drug development and approvals, Market access and reimbursement/coverage decisions, Post-market surveillance, Clinical research, Other applications) Health Insurance Market , By Distribution Channel (Direct Sales, Broker/Agents, Banks, and Others), By Insurance Type (Diseases Insurance and Medical Insurance), By Coverage (Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs), Point of Service (POS), Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs), and Exclusive Provider Organizations (EPOs)), By End User (Group and Individuals), By Age Group (Senior Citizens, Adult, and Minors)   Browse through Coherent Market Insights   Healthcare IT   Research Reports.     About Us:     Coherent Market Insights  is a global market intelligence and consulting organization focused on assisting our plethora of clients achieve transformational growth by helping them make critical business decisions. We are headquartered in India, having sales office at global financial capital in the U.S. and sales consultants in United Kingdom and Japan. Our client base includes players from across varibusiness verticals in over 57 countries worldwide. We create value for clients through our highly reliable and accurate reports. We are also committed in playing a leading role in offering insights in varisectors post-COVID-19 and continue to deliver measurable, sustainable results for our clients.   Follow Us:   LinkedIn   |   Twitter     MENAFN07092023004107003653ID1107025308 MENAFN07092023004107003653ID1107025308 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN