PC and printer major HP has launched a new software platform called “AI Studio”, designed to help data scientists and AI practitioners and a moveable 23.8-inch all-in-one PC designed for a hybrid lifestyle. Along with this, the company unveiled more than 20 new devices and services. HP introduced a new AI workstation solution that simplifies building and customising private AI models and applications. The company is also collaborating with chip maker Nvidia to be the first to offer dedicated workstation solutions with its AI Enterprise software platform to the market in the coming months. “The AI-enabled services we are unveiling at HP Imagine allow people to better collaborate, manage and protect their devices. Our vision is to build the world’s most comprehensive collection of employee productivity solutions to create lifelong relationships with our customers,” Dave Shull, President of Workforce Solutions, said in a statement. Moreover, the company also unveiled the 3-in-1 17-inch foldable PC — the HP Spectre Fold. Initially announced in September for the US and UK markets, the device will soon be available in an additional 11 countries (Australia, France, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam). HP unveiled a new conference room-as-a-service subscription model that extracts insights to help customers optimise usage and create outstanding in-office video conferencing experiences. In addition, the company announced its first-ever PC refurbishment programme to help drive the circular economy and extend the life of devices. For printing needs, HP unveiled the DeskJet All-in-One Printer series made with up to 60 per cent recycled plastic and available with Instant Ink, the world’s first smart ink delivery service. “HP Imagine marks the culmination of an incredible year for innovation in our printing business — from our new consumer lineup of Smart Tank printers and modern inkjet printers to Instant Ink for SMBs, and a new office portfolio powered by our sustainable ink and toner technology,” said Tuan Tran, President of Imaging and Printing Solutions. The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired John Abraham’s latest film, Vedaa, has been receiving positive feedback since its release on August The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) is proud to announce that renowned Indian actor Pankaj The upcoming historical drama Chhava, starring Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna, has been making waves Raksha Bandhan is a special occasion to celebrate the bond between siblings, and what better Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan continue to be one of Bollywood’s most admired Award winning composer and music maestro A.R. Rahman was felicitated with the prestigious ‘Excellence in Song Rote Rote Movie Ghudchadi Singer Jubin Nautiyal Featuring Sanjay Dutt, Raveena Tondon, Parth Samthaan Song Name – New Woman Featuring – LISA and Rosalia Check out New Woman Song Taylor Swift’s final series of shows for the European leg of her Eras tour at Ankita Lokhande recently shared a fun moment on her Instagram Stories, revealing that her husband, Devoleena Bhattacharjee, a beloved figure in Indian television, has thrilled her fans with the heartwarming Shaheer Sheikh recently returned from his vacation and made a heartfelt visit to his best Actress Disha Parmar recently shared an adorable moment with her daughter, Navya, on Instagram, capturing “Kota Factory,” once hailed for its relatable depiction of student life in Kota, has unfortunately “The Legend of Hanuman” Season 4 continues to impress with its blend of stunning animation, “Gullak” Season 4, much anticipated by fans of the charming Mishra family, unfortunately fails to “Blackout,” starring Vikrant Massey, is a thriller that strives to keep viewers on the edge glamsham.com® (since 1999) is an English language news / information platform with an aim to connect with people with information about the  entertainment industry.