You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Aug 29, 2023, 11:02pm Computer programming involves knowing how to write code—a handy skill for a variety of technology jobs. In everything from creating websites to developing software programs, strong computer programming knowledge can set you apart from the pack. A computer programming bachelor’s degree provides a solid foundation in this subject. In this article, we discuss computer programming degrees in detail, including typical admission requirements, required coursework and popular career options for graduates. Keep reading to learn more about bachelor’s degrees in computer programming. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. A computer programming bachelor’s degree is an undergraduate degree that covers various computer programming languages, programming skills, application development, web scripting and other valuable competencies that can help you qualify for high-paying tech jobs. Colleges and universities often offer computer programming as a concentration within a broader computer science bachelor’s program. A bachelor’s in computer science provides foundational knowledge of many computer science-related topics, such as data structures and algorithms, artificial intelligence and application security. As a computer programming bachelor’s student, expect to earn around 120 credits to graduate, which takes most learners four years. You may need longer if you study part time, and if you pursue an accelerated online program, you might be able to complete your degree in under three years. Computer programming degree programs may also require a capstone project or an internship during your last semester. Below are common admission requirements for computer programming undergraduate degrees, but these vary, so you should check with your school for more information. If you performed well on the ACT or SAT, you might also submit your test scores, even if you’re applying to a test-optional program. And if standardized tests are not your forte, check out our list of the best test-optional colleges. Course offerings for computer programming degrees vary among programs, but below we list some common courses for computer programming majors. A programming logic course introduces object-oriented programming principles, such as programming standards, algorithm development, data types, software testing, debugging, problem-solving, repetitive statements, operators, arrays and other concepts relevant to an object-oriented framework. This course uses the open systems interconnection model to cover network design fundamentals and technologies. Learners study operating systems, network installation, upgrades, configuration of remote access, disaster recovery protocol and network troubleshooting methods. This course focuses on emerging computer programming languages, including their design, implementation and key features. It covers topics such as API design and patterns, supporting software services, language paradigms, run-time systems and various approaches to execution. Learners in an artificial intelligence (AI) course explore the basics of AI. The curriculum covers search algorithms, machine learning, logic, intelligent agents, knowledge representation and other concepts related to AI techniques. This course teaches essential skills for mobile application development. Students learn about designing and developing applications, testing and debugging, creating user interfaces, addressing cross-platform issues and working with cross-platform environments. Programmatic accreditation assures the quality of a department or degree program; graduating from an accredited program can give you a leg up in the job market. ABET handles accreditation for many computer, engineering and technology degree programs, including computer science programs. As you narrow down your college search, consider schools with ABET-accredited degree programs. You can search ABET’s database to find out your prospective program’s accreditation status. Below we list several popular computer programming jobs you might pursue with a computer programming degree. We sourced salary data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and Payscale. Median Annual Salary: $97,800
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, less education sometimes sufficient with significant professional experience
Job Overview: Computer programmers write the code used in computer software programs and applications. Their responsibilities include modifying and testing code and scripts, improving existing programs and applications, and repairing faulty code to ensure it works properly. Programmers use various coding languages, such as JavaScript, Java and Python, in their day-to-day jobs. Median Annual Salary: $99,620
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, master’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Quality assurance analysts design and test software. They also troubleshoot problems and provide solutions. These professionals develop test plans and procedures, conduct software testing manually or with automated programs, write documentation describing problems or issues that need to be addressed, and recommend methods to minimize project risks. Software developers and other stakeholders rely on quality assurance analysts’ feedback to improve software functionality. Median Annual Salary: $127,260
Minimum Required Education: Bachelor’s degree, master’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Software developers design and develop computer applications and systems. They identify users’ needs, write plans to execute software development, and create diagrams and models for programmers. Software developers ensure that programs and applications function properly, which involves making recommendations for software upgrades and maintenance. Median Annual Salary: $78,580
Minimum Required Education: High school education with programming knowledge, bachelor’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Web developers design, create, test, maintain and ensure the functionality of websites. Their responsibilities include using popular computer programming languages to write code, developing mockups or prototypes, handling back-end or front-end development, and incorporating payment-processing options into e-commerce websites. Median Annual Salary: $83,240
Minimum Required Education: High school education with relevant knowledge and work experience, bachelor’s degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Digital interface designers design and create websites and digital interfaces. These professionals test and adjust designs and layouts to make sure a website meets accessibility standards, ensuring interfaces and navigation menus function properly and are user-friendly across multiple devices and browsers. Digital interface designers may also modify websites to improve search engine rankings. Average Annual Salary: Around $68,100
Minimum Required Education: High school education with relevant experience and programming knowledge, game design degree sometimes preferred
Job Overview: Video game designers use programming languages and other technologies to plan, design and create video games for various platforms, such as gaming systems and computers. They may collaborate with other team members to create storyboards and flowcharts for games. Some video game designers focus on specific parts of a game, such as developing a rule system or creating environments. Average Annual Salary: Around $78,300
Minimum Required Education: Relevant experience and programming language knowledge
Job Overview: Mobile applications developers design and create mobile applications for various platforms, such as smartphones and tablets. They use common programming languages to control the look, feel and functionality of applications. App developers also test and troubleshoot applications to eliminate bugs and glitches, sometimes collaborating with other developers as well. To learn more, see our guide on how to become an app developer. Majoring in computer programming can provide you with relevant knowledge for a variety of jobs in tech. Potential careers for computer programming majors include programmer, web developer and quality assurance analyst. If your goal is to work in the tech field, a computer programming major may serve you well. Computer programmers as a whole earn a median annual salary of $97,800, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, but salaries vary by employer, position and industry. For example, computer programmers who work in scientific research and development services earn an average of $137,020, while those working in academia earn an average of $87,530. 

 Sheryl Grey is a freelance writer who specializes in creating content related to education, aging and senior living, and real estate. She is also a copywriter who helps businesses grow through expert website copywriting, branding and content creation. Sheryl holds a Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications from Indiana University South Bend, and she received her teacher certification training through Bethel University’s Transition to Teaching program.