Russell Mike, 58, died Jan. 20. Russell ”RAM”. Mike, 58, of Syracuse, died unexpectedly on Jan. 20. He was born in Syracuse and was a Henninger High School graduate. Mike worked as a housing inspector for the Onondaga County Community Development Division. Onondaga County rehab inspector Russell Mike stands with homeowner Amber Mathews, on her front porch. Mike worked on the lead-abatement project at her house. May, 16, 2019.Tim Knauss He also owned his own construction company, RAM Construction. Mike was known for his “huge smile” and being attired in the latest fashion, according to his obituary. He was a fan of the Pittsburgh Steelers. His tribute page had many condolences and memories. “He was a true gentleman, full of class and style,” one person said. Another remarked on his “ever present smile, ... smooth voice and ...calm demeanor.” Calling hours will take place from 10 a.m. to noon on Feb. 3 at Bellegrove Missionary Baptist Church, 219 Martin Luther King East, Syracuse. A funeral service will follow at noon. Burial will be in Oakwood Cemetery, 940 Comstock Ave., Syracuse. You may contact Syracuse.com’s Sharon Dellinger by phone at 315-282-8675 or by email. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices