 Log In On Oct. 2, Tucker, Georgia-based specialty building products distributor GMS acquired Phoenix, Arizona-based tool and fastener distributor AMW Construction Supply. “With a service-focused culture and deep tools and fasteners expertise, we are excited to welcome the AMW team to GMS,” said GMS President and CEO John Turner Jr. in an Oct. 3 news release. “We look forward to leveraging their capabilities to further expand this business as we continue our focus on growing this margin-accretive category.”  Founded in 1984, AMW is a distributor of tools and fasteners used in both residential and commercial framing and concrete projects. AMW will continue to operate under its legacy name and will further support GMS’s existing presence in the Phoenix market and provide additional Complementary Product offerings across the region, company official said. GMS Expansions GMS also recently established two new greenfield locations, expanding its presence to provide enhanced service and product offerings. In Jessup, Maryland, and Elizabeth, New Jersey, GMS added to its Capitol Building Supply platform, further expanding service and capabilities across the broader Northeast market. Following its acquisition by GMS in December 2021, the AMES platform over the summer added two new AMES store locations in San Antonio, Texas, and Palm Desert, California. GMS made MDM’s 2023 Top Distributors List, ranking No. 9 on the Top Building Materials/Construction Distributors List. West Florida Supply is a distributor to retailers, education systems, food processors and municipalities, City… CK Supply Inc. will take over operations as it looks to expand service offerings, the… The acquisition gives L&W Supply its ninth location in Indiana. You must be logged in to post a comment. Read the latest articles and see your reports. The MDM update newsletter is your best source for news and trends in the wholesale distribution industry. Wholesale distribution news and trends delivered right to your inbox. Sign-up for our free newsletter and get: 2 articles left Subscribe today and get: Log in MDM Premium Subscribers get: Log in 1 article left Subscribe to MDM Premium to get unlimited access. Your subscription includes: Log in Join other distribution executives who use MDM Premium to optimize their business. Our insights and analysis help you enter the right new markets, turbocharge your sales and marketing efforts, identify business partners that help you scale, and stay ahead of your competitors. Log in Back to MDM.com By providing your email, you agree to receive announcements from us and our partners for our newsletter, events, surveys, and partner resources per MDM Terms & Conditions. You can withdraw consent at any time. Δ Δ