 An official-looking plaque briefly appears near the site of a convoy counter-protest, a construction company closure ripples through the community, and a jewelry heist so dramatic, it could be a movie script.  CTVNewsOttawa.ca looks at the top five stories on our website this week  An official-looking plaque appeared on the bridge at Bank Street and Riverside Drive this week, commemorating a major act of citizen resistance to the "Freedom Convoy" occupation last year.  The plaque was designed to look like a real city of Ottawa plaque, but the city said it didn't make it nor put it up.  It appeared on the bridge Thursday morning, but by the evening it had disappeared. The city again said it had nothing to do with it and didn't take it down. Some councillors had appealed to keep it as a piece of public art before it disappeared.  The "Battle of Billings Bridge" is the name given to a counter-protest at the intersection of Bank and Riverside, where hundreds of residents blocked a group of convoy supporters from entering downtown to bolster the number of people supporting the occupation.  It's unclear who made the plaque and who took it.  A plaque commemorating the 'Battle of Billings Bridge' during the 'Freedom Convoy' protests erected at the bridge. The plaque is designed to look like an official city of Ottawa commemoration. (Tyler Fleming/CTV News Ottawa)  Homeowners and employees have been left reeling after an Orléans construction company suddenly closed its doors, walking away from half-built houses and projects worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.  Highbridge Construction closed its doors last week, leaving homeowners left with many questions and few answers. Employees' paycheques are bouncing, the locks on the company's St. Joseph Boulevard storefront have been changed, and some customers are considering a class action lawsuit.  CTV News Ottawa has made multiple attempts to contact Highbridge Construction and has not yet received a response.  Ottawa police also confirm the fraud unit is investigating.  Highbridge Construction in Ottawa has ceased operations, leaving customers with unfinished projects worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. (CTV News Ottawa)  An Ottawa restaurateur was shocked to find his business had been broken into last weekend and even more surprised to find a gaping hole in the wall that led to the jewelry store next door.  Moe Hussain operates Moe's BBQ on Bank Street in the Towngate Shopping Plaza. He arrived at work last Sunday to find his shop was broken into. Then he found a giant hole in the wall that he shares with Le's Jewellery next door. Thieves had cut through the way, including through pipes, to get at the jewelry store's safe.  Hussain said he hoped to reopen for takeout, but it’s unclear how long his dining area will be closed. The owners of Le's Jewellery said they were heartbroken by the theft, but declined to offer further details in the immediate aftermath of the robbery.  Reports indicate they lost half a million dollars worth of merchandise.  Moe’s BBQ Smokehouse restaurant was used to gain access to a jewellery store on Bank Street as part of a heist to steal a safe. Thieves cut a hole in the wall that separates the two businesses. (Leah Larocque/CTV News Ottawa)  Four people are facing murder charges in the death of a much-loved Ottawa physiotherapist.  Kyle Andrades, 35, was found dead at a commercial building on Tenth Line Road late Tuesday night.  Friends described Andrades as fun loving, outgoing and generous. The uOttawa graduate owned his own private physiotherapy practice in Gloucester, treating many patients in the region.  On Thursday, police said three Ottawa men are facing murder charges.  Nicolas Bergeret, 36, and Antoine Richemond, 33, have been charged with first-degree murder. George DaCosta, 46, has been charged with second-degree murder.  On Friday, Ottawa police said Katherine McRae, 36, of Ottawa is facing a charge of accessory after the fact to murder.  Friends held a vigil Friday to honour Andrades's life.  A shrine for Kyle Andrades at Connor's Irish Pub in Orleans, one of his favourite hangout spots. (Jackie Perez/CTV News Ottawa)  A large group of Ottawa residents came out Wednesday to support a drag storytime event at the National Arts Centre.  The event, part of Capital Pride's Winterlude programming, featured stories read by drag performers China Doll and Cyril Cinder, with music by Monkey Rock Music.  Much like other drag events, protesters were anticipated. A few dozen protesters holding signs with Bible verses turned out to oppose the event, but more than 200 supporters outnumbered them. More than a dozen police officers were on scene to keep the peace between the two sides.  Ottawa police confirm four people were arrested but all were released at the scene. No criminal charges were laid.  Cyril Cinder later thanked the crowd for their support.   Supporters of a drag storytime event at Ottawa's National Arts Centre use Pride flags to block signs held by protesters. Feb. 8, 2023. (Jeremie Charron/CTV News Ottawa) The Court of Arbitration for Sport has dismissed Canada's appeal of a six-point penalty against its Olympic women's soccer team.  Ontario Provincial Police say Martyn Rosko, the main suspect in four homicides in Kirkland Lake, is dead.  If you're planning to leave Canada, there's a laundry list of things that need to be checked off. Experts explain all the steps you need to take before making the move.  Colombian President Gustavo Petro on Wednesday called on his close ally, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, to release detailed vote counts of the weekend election in which electoral authorities declared Maduro the winner.  Fewer people are going to Starbucks and buying drinks and food, as last quarter was Starbucks' second straight with a sales decline.  Weeks after Jason Pilbin witnessed a driver get swept away by floodwaters, his northeastern Vermont community was ravaged again by flooding from heavy rains.  Six families whose loved ones died in Alabama prisons have filed lawsuits against the commissioner of the state's department of corrections, saying their family members' bodies were returned to them missing internal organs after undergoing state-ordered autopsies.  The Canadian economy continued to keep its head just above water in May, growing 0.2 per cent, led by expansions in manufacturing and the public sector.  A sailboat captain was found alive but suffering from a severe case of hypothermia on Monday after spending up to five hours adrift in the ocean off British Columbia, according to the coast guard.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Taxes are the largest household expense for families in Canada.  The Court of Arbitration for Sport has dismissed Canada's appeal of a six-point penalty against its Olympic women's soccer team.  Tiny grains of sand from the Sahara Desert are to blame for the almost month-long lull in this year's Atlantic hurricane season, scientists say. But it could soon come to an end.  Ontario is officially ending its COVID-19 wastewater surveillance program today in a move some public health experts call shortsighted.  Hamilton police are appealing for information about the whereabouts of a 24-year-old man who is facing an 11-year prison sentence in connection with a fatal hit-and-run back in 2021.  Two youths have been charged after several people were struck by gel bullets in Vaughan, prompting a police warning on the dangers of replica firearms.  A Quebec woman who allegedly pretended to be a lawyer and evaded the authorities for weeks has been arrested.  Montreal police is looking for 10-year-old Jordan Blessing Nkhingu.  For the third time this year, Quebec manufacturer of electric medium- and heavy-duty urban vehicles, Lion Electric, is slashing its workforce, reducing its workforce by 30 per cent.  Sudbury police say they are investigating a death at Bell Park and are asking the public to avoid it.  Police are asking people to avoid the Lloyd Street area after a serious crash at a busy downtown Sudbury intersection Wednesday morning.  Ontario Provincial Police say Martyn Rosko, the main suspect in four homicides in Kirkland Lake, is dead.  Environment Canada has issued a heat warning for Windsor-Essex. High temperatures are expected to continue through Thursday.  The Court of Arbitration for Sport has dismissed Canada's appeal of a six-point penalty against its Olympic women's soccer team.  A Windsor law firm has been working on the case since it first came to light nearly a decade ago.  Workers voted to ratify a new four-year collective agreement that eliminates the two-tier wage system, they said discriminated against new hires and existing workers with limited seniority.  One person has died after a crash Monday night in Lambton County. Around 10:05 p.m., crews responded to the area of London Line and Telfer road for the crash involving a transport truck and a cyclist.  Just after 12 p.m. on Tuesday, emergency crews rushed to the scene in Thames Centre after a transport carrying a full load of propane, collided with an SUV.  Waterloo residents are frustrated over the death of a wild deer that had been living in their neighbourhood, after repeated requests to help the animal were ignored.  The Mayor of Guelph is speaking out about drug use in public spaces.  Damaged books and bits of wood littered the ground on Wednesday after a free little library in Kitchener was destroyed.  Couchiching Beach in Orillia has a swim advisory in place.  Following reports of people defecating on the beach, Wasaga Beach Mayor Brian Smith passed a motion in council on Monday, formally requesting the province to ban four-sided tents on the beach.  The National Wildlife Centre in Caledon Ont., has been helping sick and injured wildlife for 10 years and will soon offer its first permanent wildlife field hospital.  There’s a buzz at the Braeside Park wading pool and it’s not the sound of kids splashing around.  The remains of a missing Manitoba man were found in a wooded area on Monday.  Protestors shut down the Maryland Bridge on Tuesday as they called for better bike safety.  It's the Alberta Day of Caring, a province-wide event to support Jasper wildfire evacuees.  A jury is set to begin deliberating today the fate of two men accused of conspiring to kill police at the Coutts, Alta., blockade in 2022.  After labouring for months to bring one of Jasper's newest business concepts to life, the owners of The Peacock Cork & Fork never dreamed the young restaurant's run would be so short-lived.  After labouring for months to bring one of Jasper's newest business concepts to life, the owners of The Peacock Cork & Fork never dreamed the young restaurant's run would be so short-lived.  We should see afternoon highs in the mid to upper 20s through the rest of the week and the coming weekend in Edmonton.  An Edmonton man has been sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted in the United Kingdom of being a member of a proscribed terrorist group.  As the devastating wildfire in Jasper National Park continues to burn, Saskatchewan is currently batting more than 80 active wildfires of its own. However, none are currently encroaching on any communities, the Saskatchewan Public Safety Agency said on Tuesday.  Former Saskatchewan Party MLA and provincial cabinet minister Lyle Stewart has died following a lengthy battle with cancer.  A long standing fixture in Radville, Sask. was destroyed by a fire in the early hours of Monday morning.  The executive director of a Saskatoon-based harm reduction group says federal Conservative leader Pierre Poilievre’s statements on supervised consumption sites are “uneducated.”  The City of Saskatoon has issued a warning to residents about the presence of toxic cyanobacteria in Briarwood Pond.  Former Saskatchewan Party MLA and provincial cabinet minister Lyle Stewart has died following a lengthy battle with cancer.  She spent nearly 20 years working for the Vancouver Police Department, and now the woman at the centre of a lawsuit is speaking publicly about the threatening environment she claims to have experienced, and the alleged inaction of management.  Last Thursday, Housing Minister Ravi Kahlon gave West Vancouver's mayor and council 30 days to change the city's bylaws to comply with new provincial regulations allowing for the construction of multiple units on all single family lots.  A poll released Tuesday shows the gap narrowing between the BC NDP and the BC Conservatives with the latter party trailing by just three points months before the provincial election.  A wildfire burning west of Victoria is no longer considered out of control, according to an update from the B.C. Wildfire Service Tuesday.  A poll released Tuesday shows the gap narrowing between the BC NDP and the BC Conservatives with the latter party trailing by just three points months before the provincial election.  A sailboat captain was found alive but suffering from a severe case of hypothermia on Monday after spending up to five hours adrift in the ocean off British Columbia, according to the coast guard.  A British Columbia co-operative that has been selling and promoting the province's fruit for the last 88 years is shutting down.  Police in the British Columbia Interior say a missing father and his four young children have been found safe after the man failed to surrender the children to their mother, in violation of a court order.  A Kamloops Mountie has been charged with assault and mischief in connection to an incident that occurred last summer, Crown prosecutors announced Wednesday.  © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy