
                Agree & Join LinkedIn
               
      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
     Bed Bath & Beyond stopped efforts to secure a buyer for its Buy Buy Baby stores after canceling an auction for the business on Friday, CNBC reports. The bankrupt retailer decided that because Buy Buy Baby's value had declined, it wouldn't be worth purchasing. But there are potential buyers still interested, anonymous sources tell CNBC. And they could place an offer by early next week before Dream on Me, a New Jersey-based retailer, solidifies its recent $15.5 million purchase of Buy Buy Baby's intellectual property in court.  
                Reporter at Thomson Reuters
             Bed Bath & Beyond was unable to find a buyer willing to acquire its Buy Buy Baby business with all stores and inventory intact. The bankrupt retailer will instead sell the brand's name and digital assets to Dream On Me for $15.5 million. 

Bed Bath & Beyond previously sold its own name to Overstock.com, but it had higher hopes for Buy Buy Baby, which initially attracted a lot of outside interest when it went up for auction. 

Reuters #reuters
https://lnkd.in/eRytQySc 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Outstanding Marketing Leadership Honoree | Marketing and Comms leader with a passion for employer branding, internal comms, and employee engagement | Forbes Contributor
             Christmas Tree Shops is like RTO. 

When Christmas Tree Shops broke off from the company that owned Bed, Bath, and Beyond, they stopped their e-commerce sales. 

Companies who are mandating RTO are ignoring the needs and desires of candidates and employees. 

Many companies will soon find them themselves in the same place (going out of business) as many retailers because they refuse to innovate and meet the demands of their customers. Without employees, organizations can’t run. 

The future of work and retail = from a laptop, when and where they want, and not in a physical place. 

#futureofwork #ecommerce 
                President and Chief Executive Officer at Woodcliff Realty Advisors, LLC
             Retailers emerging from a bankruptcy filing is not as easy as it used to be. About a dozen retailers filed in the first half of 2023, causing several well known brands to disappear from the retail landscape forever, including Bed Bath & Beyond, Harmon Face Values and Tuesday Morning. Add to the list, Christmas Tree Shops, which its lender cut its ability to replenish inventory last month sending sales circling the drain. CTS will likely liq­ui­date its re­main­ing roughly 70 stores un­less a buyer emerges within the next week or so. Also, unless they can find buyers this summer, David's Bridal and buybuy BABY could disappear as well. 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                2,898,531 followers
             Bed Bath & Beyond canceled an auction for its Buy Buy Baby business, but the chain could still end up being saved. 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                62,638 followers
             Bankrupt retailer Bed Bath & Beyond has ended its efforts to find a buyer for its entire Buy Buy Baby business, and it will instead seek US court approval for a more limited sale of Buy Buy Baby's intellectual property assets.

Bed Bath & Beyond had declared Dream On Me as lead bidder for the brand's intellectual property on June 29, but had continued to seek buyers who would take over the entire Buy Buy Baby business. But no bidder offered a higher or better bid than Dream on Me's proposal, so Bed Bath & Beyond canceled an auction that had been scheduled for Friday.

#MergersAcquisitionsDivestitures #Retail #Bankrupcy 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                Founder and CEO at MACCO Restructuring Group, LLC 
             I haven’t commented on BB&BY for sometime; however, aside from the obvious, this is the result you get when you don’t act quickly to preserve value…the lesson here is: “Hope” turnaround plans never, ever work (I’ve been in this business for 35 years and can speak with some authority on that). Decisive action, at the outset when the former CEO was ousted, might have at least preserved brand value through a robust chapter 11. Someone is going to write a case study on the multiple levels of failures here.  
        To view or add a comment, sign in
