
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Mid-East.Info)  Leading energy company is the first Infor SunSystems multi-tenant cloud customer, benefitting from enhanced security, reduced risk and lower IT footprint from which to scale operations
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates: Infor®, the industry cloud company, announced that independent energy company Gulfsands has selected Infor SunSystems Cloud as its financial platform via Infor Gold channel Partner Progressive TSL. Gulfsands, as the first customer of the multi-tenant cloud financial application, expects to benefit from increased security, reduced risk, and a smaller physical and environmental IT footprint, enabling greater resource availability and focus on its core business goals.
As part of a programme to modernise and digitalise its core systems, Gulfsands selected Infor SunSystems Cloud having been a long-standing SunSystems on-premises user. As an independent, public energy company with a growth strategy, having a robust platform from which to support its potential, scale and business expansion is crucial, as is the ability to handle the varying currency, taxation and legislative demands of a wider geographic reach.
The leading energy company, which is London based but recently opened an office in Abu Dhabi to help with its focus on the Middle East and North Africa region, opted for a cloud deployment to take advantage of having no physical servers, with reduced risk, cost and improved security as a result, as well as the updated functionality and capabilities in the latest version of SunSystems. The cloud also delivers a much easier way of supporting an increasingly dispersed workforce, whether it involves finance professionals working from home or in geographically-spread projects and teams.
“Having been a long-standing user of Infor SunSystems and having moved our other core systems to the cloud, we are incredibly excited to be the first SunSystems multi-tenant cloud customer,” commented Andrew Morris, Gulfsands finance director.“This provides important continuity in terms of both our joint venture and standalone financial reporting. The security, risk and cost benefits are also hugely valuable at a time when we are getting ready to scale up our business, and this will allow us to focus fully on our core business goals rather than dealing with an aging IT infrastructure that is out of kilter with the modern world.”
“Progressive TSL has supported us since 2013, providing in-depth experience and expertise from across the energy sector, in particular in oil & gas. Their approach is patient, pragmatic and consultative, and they've genuinely been a trusted partner in our quest to modernise and future-proof our business through deployment of the very best digital capabilities,” Morris added.
“We're delighted to welcome Gulfsands as our first Infor SunSystems customer to embrace the benefits of a full cloud deployment,” commented Joe Vargas, VP & general manager of Infor SunSystems.“So much more than a modern accounting system, SunSystems multi-tenant cloud delivers improved collaboration, security and a lower total cost of ownership that puts this energy leader in the best position from which to pursue its expansion and scale the business.”
“Powered by Amazon Web Services (AWS), Infor SunSystems Cloud provides added confidence from both a risk and security perspective, delivering resilient, world-class advanced cloud infrastructure in combination with modern, international financial capabilities,” commented Chris Walcot, CEO of Progressive TSL.“We're delighted to be working closely with Infor to deliver these capabilities to our customers, and look forward to seeing Gulfsands embrace these to fulfil its potential in the coming years.”
  About   Gulfsands  
Gulfsands Petroleum plc is an independent, public energy company, incorporated in the United Kingdom and focused on growth in the Middle East and North Africa region. Its core asset is its interest in Block 26, a world-class resource in North East Syria, which is currently under Force Majeure as a result of UK sanctions. Visit     About Progressive TSL  
Progressive is a business consultancy specialising in implementation and support of finance, supply chain and asset management solutions for asset-intensive industries (including energy, mining & extraction, and engineering services) across the globe. It has held Infor Gold Channel Partner accredited status since 2014. Visit   About Infor  
Infor is a global leader in business cloud software specialized by industry. We develop complete solutions for our focus industries. Infor's mission-critical enterprise applications and services are designed to deliver sustainable operational advantages with security and faster time to value. Over 60,000 organizations in more than 175 countries rely on Infor's 17,000 employees to help achieve their business goals. As a Koch company, our financial strength, ownership structure, and long-term view empower us to foster enduring, mutually beneficial relationships with our customers.

MENAFN19122022005446012082ID1105328290 Leading energy company is the first Infor SunSystems multi-tenant cloud customer, benefitting from enhanced security, reduced risk and lower IT footprint from which to scale operations Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates: Infor®, the industry cloud company, announced that independent energy company Gulfsands has selected Infor SunSystems Cloud as its financial platform via Infor Gold channel Partner Progressive TSL. Gulfsands, as the first customer of the multi-tenant cloud financial application, expects to benefit from increased security, reduced risk, and a smaller physical and environmental IT footprint, enabling greater resource availability and focus on its core business goals. As part of a programme to modernise and digitalise its core systems, Gulfsands selected Infor SunSystems Cloud having been a long-standing SunSystems on-premises user. As an independent, public energy company with a growth strategy, having a robust platform from which to support its potential, scale and business expansion is crucial, as is the ability to handle the varying currency, taxation and legislative demands of a wider geographic reach. The leading energy company, which is London based but recently opened an office in Abu Dhabi to help with its focus on the Middle East and North Africa region, opted for a cloud deployment to take advantage of having no physical servers, with reduced risk, cost and improved security as a result, as well as the updated functionality and capabilities in the latest version of SunSystems. The cloud also delivers a much easier way of supporting an increasingly dispersed workforce, whether it involves finance professionals working from home or in geographically-spread projects and teams. “Having been a long-standing user of Infor SunSystems and having moved our other core systems to the cloud, we are incredibly excited to be the first SunSystems multi-tenant cloud customer,” commented Andrew Morris, Gulfsands finance director.“This provides important continuity in terms of both our joint venture and standalone financial reporting. The security, risk and cost benefits are also hugely valuable at a time when we are getting ready to scale up our business, and this will allow us to focus fully on our core business goals rather than dealing with an aging IT infrastructure that is out of kilter with the modern world.” “Progressive TSL has supported us since 2013, providing in-depth experience and expertise from across the energy sector, in particular in oil & gas. Their approach is patient, pragmatic and consultative, and they've genuinely been a trusted partner in our quest to modernise and future-proof our business through deployment of the very best digital capabilities,” Morris added. “We're delighted to welcome Gulfsands as our first Infor SunSystems customer to embrace the benefits of a full cloud deployment,” commented Joe Vargas, VP & general manager of Infor SunSystems.“So much more than a modern accounting system, SunSystems multi-tenant cloud delivers improved collaboration, security and a lower total cost of ownership that puts this energy leader in the best position from which to pursue its expansion and scale the business.” “Powered by Amazon Web Services (AWS), Infor SunSystems Cloud provides added confidence from both a risk and security perspective, delivering resilient, world-class advanced cloud infrastructure in combination with modern, international financial capabilities,” commented Chris Walcot, CEO of Progressive TSL.“We're delighted to be working closely with Infor to deliver these capabilities to our customers, and look forward to seeing Gulfsands embrace these to fulfil its potential in the coming years.”   About   Gulfsands   Gulfsands Petroleum plc is an independent, public energy company, incorporated in the United Kingdom and focused on growth in the Middle East and North Africa region. Its core asset is its interest in Block 26, a world-class resource in North East Syria, which is currently under Force Majeure as a result of UK sanctions. Visit     About Progressive TSL   Progressive is a business consultancy specialising in implementation and support of finance, supply chain and asset management solutions for asset-intensive industries (including energy, mining & extraction, and engineering services) across the globe. It has held Infor Gold Channel Partner accredited status since 2014. Visit   About Infor   Infor is a global leader in business cloud software specialized by industry. We develop complete solutions for our focus industries. Infor's mission-critical enterprise applications and services are designed to deliver sustainable operational advantages with security and faster time to value. Over 60,000 organizations in more than 175 countries rely on Infor's 17,000 employees to help achieve their business goals. As a Koch company, our financial strength, ownership structure, and long-term view empower us to foster enduring, mutually beneficial relationships with our customers.  MENAFN19122022005446012082ID1105328290 MENAFN19122022005446012082ID1105328290 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN