Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     By the 1980s, Boeing had served the commercial aviation market with its twin-engine 767s and the iconic four-engine 747s. There was a strong need to fill the gap between the two already-successful types. Around the same time, the ETOPS-180 regulations set by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) enabled the use of twin-engine aircraft for transoceanic distances.
                         Taking the airlines' demands and FAA regulations into consideration, Boeing created a clean-sheet design in the form of the Boeing 777. A basic configuration was released, which had a cabin cross-section similar to a 747, capacity for up to 325 passengers, flexible interiors, a glass cockpit, fly-by-wire controls, and 10% better seat-mile costs than other standard airlines. The proposed aircraft would become the biggest two-engine jet ever to fly.
                         Want answers to more key questions in aviation? Check out the rest of our guides here!
                         The first member of the Boeing 777 family, the 777-200, entered commercial service in May 1995. Soon after, Boeing offered an extended version, the 777-200ER, to be entered into service by 1997. The -200ER could fly a distance of 7,065 NM (13,080 km).
                         In the early 1990s, Computer-Aided Design (CAD) was prevalent in various applications. Designers chose CAD to perform complex engineering designs and calculations to ensure more accurate output. Efficient CAD designs were also beneficial in terms of cost savings for the company. Automated systems allowed specialisms such as design and engineering to merge, creating more efficiencies and cost benefits for companies.
                         Designing a widebody airliner that could accommodate nearly 350 passengers using CAD was a huge feat at the time. Boeing has been incorporating CAD into its aircraft design process for some time. However, the company had never fully developed a clean sheet design using computers. The Boeing 777, which would go on to become one of the most iconic widebody aircraft, was the first aircraft to be designed 100% using CAD software.
                         Computer-Aided Three-dimensional Interactive Application (CATIA), developed by Dassault Systems of France and marketed by IBM in the United States, was primarily used for the Boeing 777. The CATIA system allows engineers to simulate the aircraft geometry on the computer during various design stages. The computer-aided software eliminates the need for costly and time-consuming construction of a physical prototype. According to Larry Olson, Director of Information Systems for Boeing Commercial Group,
                         "Hundred percent digital design was a real paradigm shift. The 777 was completed with such precision that it was the first Boeing jet that didn’t need its kinks worked out on an expensive physical mock-up plane."
                         The CAD technology was proven to be more accurate than a human engineering team. Based on the design results obtained from the software, Boeing canceled all future planned mock-ups for the 777. Various major components of the aircraft were digitally put together for interface testing. According to Boeing,
                         The 777 integrates onboard systems, advanced materials, aerodynamics, and the world’s most powerful jet engines to produce the most reliable twin-aisle airplane flying—a testament to the power of digital design.
                         Numerous variations and upgrades to the 777 program followed through the years, but the aircraft remains in service today. Boeing's 777 went on to become their most-produced widebody jet, surpassing the Boeing 747.
      What are your thoughts on the use of CAD software in the design of the Boeing 777? Tell us in the comments section.
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The whistleblower previously worked at Spirit AeroSystems before he was let go from the Tier 1 Supplier. The latest quality issue affects around 50 undelivered Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The FAA has used unusually frank and clear directions to Boeing about how things will happen from here on, and the planemaker has a long road ahead. Under the plea deal, the planemaker will be fined more than $243 million. Boeing shuts down its factories once a week to hold employee feedback sessions, provide additional training, and conduct quality control inspections. The two employees were reportedly transferred from Boeing's facilities in Renton to Everett.