As the No.1 University in the world for sport-related subjects, we offer unrivalled research, teaching and partnerships across sport, exercise and health sciences.   Our expertise spans the fields of biomechanics, cellular and molecular biology, economics, medicine, nutrition, pedagogy, physiology, psychology, sociology, sport management and more. Join us to push the boundaries of sport and health science in the UK and internationally. 
      No.1 in the world for sport-related subjects
     
      QS World University Rankings 2017-2024
     
      100% of our research impact rated 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent'
     
      Research Excellence Framework 2021
     
      Athena SWAN Silver award
     
      Recognising our commitment to gender equality
     Our undergraduate, master's and PhD programmes are influenced by world-leading research and delivered by internationally renowned academics. Find the right degree for you here.

     Covering sport business, society and performance, as well as lifestyle for health & wellbeing, our world-leading Research and Innovation activity is driving understanding of the importance of sport and exercise science in the context of public health. Loughborough’s world-leading research and expertise to play a key role in pioneering innovative new approaches to rehabilitation, following Government go ahead to build the UKs first National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC). Find out more about our research and PhD opportunities available through our vibrant new research cluster bringing together expertise in sport sociology, physiology, nutrition, management, ecology and engineering. Our researchers are investigating how interior design and aesthetics within rehabilitation facilities influence attitudes toward physical activity following a spinal cord injury. Researching how physical activity affects the immune system of clinical and non-clinical populations to investigate if it can be used to reduce inflammation. Find contact details and information regarding all members of staff affiliated with Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences. SSEHS has an international reputation for teaching and research. Find out more about us, our facilities and our people. Our commitment to addressing gender inequalities in science has been recognised with an Athena Swann Silver Award. To get in touch with the School, please use the details provided here.