Fasting may provide several health benefits, including weight loss, blood sugar control, and protection against medical conditions like cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. Despite its recent surge in popularity, fasting is a practice that dates back centuries and plays a central role in many cultures and religions. Defined as abstinence from all or some foods or drinks for a set period, there are many different ways of fasting. Generally, most fasts are performed over 24–72 hours. Intermittent fasting, on the other hand, involves cycling between periods of eating and fasting, ranging from a few hours to a few days at a time. Fasting can have health benefits, such as increased weight loss and better brain function. Here are eight health benefits of fasting — backed by science. Several studies have found that fasting may improve blood sugar control, which may be helpful for those at risk of developing diabetes. A 2023 study of 209 people found intermittent fasting 3 days per week can reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes by increasing insulin sensitivity.  Decreasing insulin resistance can increase your body’s sensitivity to insulin, allowing it to transport glucose from your bloodstream to your cells more efficiently. Coupled with the potential blood sugar-lowering effects of fasting, this could help keep your blood sugar steady, preventing spikes and crashes in your blood sugar levels. A 2022 review of research notes that intermittent fasting and time-restricted feeding may reduce risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome, a group of five risk factors that increase the likelihood of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke.  However, additional studies are still needed to compare the effects of fasting with restricting calories. Intermittent fasting and alternate-day fasting may help decrease blood sugar levels and reduce insulin resistance. While acute inflammation is a natural immune process used to help fight off infections, chronic inflammation can seriously affect your health. Research shows that inflammation may be involved in the development of chronic conditions, such as heart disease, cancer, and rheumatoid arthritis. Some studies have found that fasting can help decrease levels of inflammation and promote better health. One 2022 review of 18 studies found that intermittent fasting could significantly reduce levels of C-reactive protein, which is a marker of inflammation. A small study discovered that practicing intermittent fasting for 1 year was more effective at decreasing levels of inflammation and reducing certain risk factors for heart disease compared to a control group. Some studies have found that fasting along with resistance training could decrease several markers of inflammation and may be useful in treating inflammatory conditions. Heart disease is considered the leading cause of death worldwide, accounting for an estimated 19 million deaths globally in 2020. Switching up your diet and lifestyle is one of the most effective ways to reduce your risk of heart disease. Some research has found that incorporating fasting into your routine may be especially beneficial for heart health. One review revealed that alternate-day fasting could reduce levels of total cholesterol and several risk factors for heart disease in people with overweight compared to a control group. Another review showed that alternate-day fasting could significantly decrease blood pressure, as well as levels of blood triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL (bad) cholesterol. Fasting has been associated with a lower risk of coronary heart disease and may help lower blood pressure, triglycerides, and cholesterol levels. Though research is mostly limited to animal research, several studies have found that fasting could have a powerful effect on brain health. Animal studies from 2018 and 2021 have reported that fasting could protect brain health and increase the generation of nerve cells to help enhance cognitive function. Because fasting may also help relieve inflammation, it could also aid in preventing neurodegenerative disorders. In particular, animal studies suggest that fasting may protect against and improve outcomes for conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s. However, more studies are needed to evaluate the effects of fasting on brain function in humans.  Animal studies show that fasting could improve brain function, increase nerve cell synthesis, and protect against neurodegenerative conditions, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s. Many dieters experiment with fasting to try to lose weight. Theoretically, abstaining from all or certain foods and beverages should decrease your overall calorie intake, which could lead to increased weight loss over time. One older review from 2015 showed that whole-day fasting could reduce body weight by up to 9% and significantly decrease body fat over 12–24 weeks. Another review found that intermittent fasting was more effective in inducing weight loss compared to continuous calorie restriction. In addition, other research has found that fasting may lead to greater reductions in body fat and belly fat compared to continuous calorie restriction. Fasting may increase metabolism and help reduce body weight and body fat. Human growth hormone (HGH) is a protein hormone central to many aspects of your health. Research shows that this key hormone is involved in metabolism, weight loss, and muscle growth. Several studies have found that fasting could naturally increase HGH levels. One review article noted that fasting for 37.5 hours can increase basal HGH concentrations by as much as ten times and also reduces the metabolic rate at which the body clears HGH. Studies show that fasting can increase levels of human growth hormone (HGH), an important protein hormone that plays a role in growth, metabolism, weight loss, and muscle strength. Several animal studies have found promising results on the potential lifespan-extending effects of fasting. One 2021 study analyzed the effects of periodic fasting on the human gut and found that fasting increased the diversity of helpful bacteria in the gut microbiome, including the Christensenella species, which are related to longevity. The researchers also noted an increase in sirtuins, proteins involved in metabolic regulation that are also associated with longevity. A 2021 review of older human and animal research has turned up similar findings, reporting that fasting could be effective in increasing longevity and delaying disease. However, further studies are needed to understand how fasting may impact longevity and aging in humans and which fasting plans are most effective. Animal studies have found that fasting could delay aging and increase longevity, but human research is still lacking. A review published in the American Cancer Society Journal notes that intermittent fasting may benefit the treatment and prevention of cancer in some situations. It may decrease tumor growth and toxicity from chemotherapy in some people. But they note that more high quality clinical trials are needed and recommend that people undergoing cancer treatment only do intermittent fasting as part of a clinical trial. For some situations and types of cancer, it could potentially have a negative effect. Another review of test tube and animal suggests that fasting could reduce tumor progression and increase chemotherapy’s effectiveness. Despite these promising findings, additional studies are needed to look at how fasting may influence cancer development and treatment in humans. Some animal and test-tube studies suggest that fasting could block tumor development and increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy. There are many different types of fasts, making it easy to find a method that fits your lifestyle. Here are a few of the most common types of fasting: Within these categories are also more specific types of fasts. For example, intermittent fasting can be broken down into subcategories, such as alternate-day fasting, which involves eating every other day, or time-restricted feeding, which entails limiting intake to just a few hours each day. There are different ways to practice fasting, which makes it easy to find a method that fits into just about any lifestyle. Experiment with different types to find what works best for you. Fasting may not be suitable for everyone and may cause side effects. For example, if you have diabetes, fasting can lead to spikes and crashes in your blood sugar levels, which could be dangerous. It’s best to talk with a doctor first if you have any underlying health conditions or are planning to fast for more than 24 hours. Additionally, fasting is not generally recommended without medical supervision for older adults, adolescents, people with underweight, or people undergoing cancer treatment. If you decide to try fasting, be sure to stay well-hydrated and fill your diet with nutrient-dense foods during your eating periods to maximize the potential health benefits. Additionally, if fasting for longer periods, try to minimize intense physical activity and get plenty of rest. When fasting, be sure to stay hydrated, eat nutrient-dense foods, and get plenty of rest. It’s best to consult with a doctor before fasting if you have any underlying health conditions or are planning to fast for more than 24 hours. Fasting may have potential health benefits, including weight loss, improved blood sugar control, heart health, brain function, and cancer prevention. When coupled with a nutritious diet and healthy lifestyle, incorporating fasting into your routine could benefit your health. Share this article Intermittent fasting is a popular dieting strategy that's used for a variety of health benefits, such as weight loss and improved blood sugar control… Studies show that intermittent fasting increases several fat burning hormones, and short-term fasts may even boost your metabolism by up to 14%. Fat fasting is claimed to help break weight loss plateaus or get back into ketosis after a cheat day. This article explores what fat fasting is and… How long you live is largely within your own control. Here are 13 diet and lifestyle habits to adopt in order to live a long life. Water fasting is claimed to have several health benefits, including weight loss. However, there are some serious health risks you should know about. Gaining optimal health is not supposed to be complicated. Follow these 5 simple rules if you want to be healthy, lose weight and feel awesome every… A recent study presents evidence of a connection between the artificial sweetener erythritol and an increased risk of blood clots. After consuming… A new study compared the effects of a keto diet and a diet low in added sugars and found the keto diet was associated with raised "bad" cholesterol… A new study found a link between processed red meat and dementia risk. The saturated fat and preservatives in processed meats might contribute to this… Eating a healthy diet that is low in sugar may help slow signs of biological aging, a new study suggests. Here's why. OUR BRANDS