Glutathione is a powerful antioxidant in the body. Possible benefits include protecting the body from disease, slowing cancer progression, improving insulin sensitivity, and more. Some people believe it has properties that support aging gracefully while others say that it can treat autism, increase fat metabolism, and even prevent cancer. Read on for more information about this antioxidant and what the research says about its effectiveness. Glutathione is a powerful antioxidant found in every cell in the body. It is made of three types of molecules known as amino acids. Amino acids combine in different patterns to make all of the proteins in the body. One unique thing about glutathione is that the body is able to make it in the liver, which is not true of most antioxidants. Glutathione has many important functions, including: Researchers have found links between low levels of glutathione and some diseases. It is possible to increase glutathione levels through oral or intravenous (IV) supplementation. Another option is to take supplements that activate the natural glutathione production in the body. These supplements include: Reducing toxin exposure and increasing intake of healthy foods are also excellent ways to naturally increase glutathione levels. The benefits of glutathione may include: Free radicals may contribute to aging and some diseases. Antioxidants help to counteract free radicals and protect the body from their damaging effects. Glutathione is a very strong antioxidant, partly because high concentrations can be found in every cell in the body. Some research shows that glutathione has a role in preventing the progression of cancer. However, the same research indicates that glutathione may make tumors less sensitive to chemotherapy, which is a common cancer treatment. Determining the effects of glutathione on cancer will require more research. Hepatitis, alcohol abuse, and fatty liver disease all damage the cells of the liver. A 2023 study suggests that glutathione could help treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease due to its antioxidant properties and potential to detoxify. The researchers note that larger studies are needed to confirm this effect. Insulin resistance can result in the development of type 2 diabetes. The production of insulin causes the body to move glucose (sugar) from the blood and into cells that use it for energy. A small 2018 study indicates that people with insulin resistance tend to have lower glutathione levels, particularly if they have experienced complications, such as neuropathy or retinopathy. A 2013 study reaches similar conclusions. More recently, a 2024 study suggests that boosting levels of glutathione might help prevent or manage type 2 diabetes.  According to a 2021 study, there is evidence that maintaining glutathione levels may help improve motor function in people with Parkinson’s disease. However, the research admit their were limitations to their study and that further research is necessary to support its use. Like other inflammatory diseases, ulcerative colitis has been linked to oxidative damage and stress. A 2020 studyinvestigated the role of glutathione in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Researchers discovered that glutathione levels are lower in the inflamed parts of the colon compared to people without IBD. This suggests that glutathione might play a role in the disease and that its decreased activity could be linked to inflammation in IBD. The benefits of taking glutathione supplements may include preventing the progression of cancer and reducing the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. However, more research is needed to support these claims. Some foods that are high in glutathione include:  Some studies claim that glutathione is an effective skin-lightening agent. It may also yield other cosmetic benefits, such as improved skin elasticity and a reduction in skin wrinkles Glutathione is a very strong antioxidant that the body makes and uses every day. Researchers have associated low levels with several medical conditions. While supplements may be appropriate for some people, they may not be safe for everyone, and they could interact with other medications a person is taking. A person should speak with a doctor before starting glutathione supplementation to determine whether it will be safe or effective. Share this article Glutathione is an important antioxidant with a range of health benefits. There are several natural ways in which a person can boost their glutathione… Free radicals are unstable atoms that can cause damage to cells and lead to illnesses and the aging process. Exactly what impact do they have on the… Antioxidants are in many healthful foods. Experts believe that they help the body fight harmful free radicals that can lead to various health… A new study found that compared to an equivalent amount of white rice, people eating baked potatoes experienced a modest decrease in fasting blood… The popular sugar substitute erythritol may increase a person's risk of blood clots, a new study finds. OUR BRANDS