This video can not be played Women's World Cup 2023: Sweden through to face Japan after beating USA  - highlights Netherlands forward Lineth Beerensteyn says she celebrated the USA's World Cup exit as the defending champions had "a really big mouth".  The USA beat the Dutch in the 2019 final but their title defence ended with defeat by Sweden on penalties on Sunday. The four-time winners' last-16 exit was their worst performance at a World Cup. "The first moment when I heard that they were out, I was just thinking, 'Yes! Bye!'" said Beerynsteyn. Spain v Netherlands preview: Dutch 'know everything' about Spain Go here for all the latest from the Women's World Cup "From the start of this tournament they already had a really big mouth," the Juventus attacker added, before the Netherlands' quarter-final against Spain in Wellington. "They were talking already about the final and stuff. "I was just thinking, 'you first have to show it on the pitch before you are talking'." The USA were bidding for an unprecedented third consecutive title, having previously never failed to reach the semi-finals. They opened their World Cup campaign with a 3-0 win over Vietnam but then failed to win another game, including a 1-1 draw with the Netherlands in the group phase which meant the Dutch finished ahead of them in Group E. "I am not being rude in that way. I mean, I have still a lot of respect for them, but now they are out of the tournament," said Beerensteyn. "For them, it's a thing that they have to take with them in the future - don't start to talk about something that's far away. "I hope that they will learn from that." Megan Rapinoe, one of the USA's most successful and prolific players, who is set to retire at the end of the year, said after the loss it was "like a sick joke" and the USA have received criticism since their shock exit. Journalists in the USA called the campaign a "catastrophe" while fans said they were "confused" by the defeat. The twisted mind of Michael Sams: Will Stephanie Slater's kidnapper be given parole? A new drug, a new story, a new era:  LA's streets are about to get more dangerous... Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE England still Stokes' team, says stand-in skipper Pope Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.