    The Borgata Bonus Code is NYPBONUSBOR. New customers can claim $100 in bonus bets for the sportsbook or get a $1,000 first deposit match for Casino. Already have an account with Borgata? Check out the best sports betting sites and best betting apps. By using the Borgata online promo code during the sign-up process of creating your Borgata account, you’ll be entitled to $100 in bonus bets by simply wagering $20. When it comes to bonus bet-related sign-up offers, there aren’t much more generous than Borgata’s. As long as you wager a minimum of $20 as your first bet on a pick that has odds of -200 or higher, you’ll be entitled to $100 in bonus bets in the form of 10 $10 bonus bets, with these being available for as many as seven days once they’ve been accredited to your account.  Interesting MLB and NFL preseason matchups are on the horizon!  The Los Angeles Dodgers will face the Seattle Mariners on Monday, while the New York Yankees go up against the Cleveland Guardians on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the New York Mets clash with the Baltimore Orioles, and Thursday features the Atlanta Braves taking on the Philadelphia Phillies. As the weekend approaches, the Detroit Tigers take on the Chicago White Sox on Friday, followed by the Colorado Rockies against the Yankees and the Orioles vs. the Houston Astros on Saturday. Sunday’s game highlights the Cincinnati Reds against the Pittsburgh Pirates. In the NFL preseason, the Indianapolis Colts will face the Cincinnati Bengals on Thursday. Friday’s matchups feature the Jacksonville Jaguars taking on the Atlanta Falcons, along with the San Francisco 49ers squaring off against the Las Vegas Raiders. Saturday will see the Los Angeles Rams clash with the Houston Texans, while Sunday wraps up with the Tennessee Titans battling the New Orleans Saints. As well as offering interesting promotions to their new customers, Borgata also offers promotions and bonuses for their existing customers as well, with these able to be used across a variety of different sports and sporting events. Borgata Sportsbook operates in just New Jersey and Pennsylvania currently, with more states set to be added to this list in the near future. This may seem like a small list, but Borgata will hopefully expand their availability in the near future, as they were only established in 2019.  Borgata is an iconic casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey, meaning it was no surprise that the Garden State was the first state to launch Borgata Sportsbook. The Casino opened to a great deal of fanfare in July 2003 and has long been established as the top-grossing casino in the Garden State. Whilst there is not a great professional sports presence in New Jersey, bettors are still able to use Borgata. Pennsylvania welcomed Borgata sportsbook in 2021, becoming the second state to do so. There’s plenty of sports teams to bet on in Pennsylvania, with the only block in place is that wagering on College Sports is not permitted.  Borgata’s sportsbook comes in as one that’s very impressive across the board, with their range of markets and odds for a wide number of sports proving to be generally great.  The layout of their mobile site, app and desktop site all make their sportsbook very simple to navigate, with their live streaming and live betting services also proving to be top drawer.  Should you wish to learn more about Borgata sportsbook, our sports betting expert’s extensive Borgata sportsbook review is definitely worth checking out.  The Borgata sports betting app is just as impressive as the desktop site. The app offers a strong and consistent performance, whilst being very easy to use. The Borgata sports app replicates the design of the desktop site, with a similar user experience, but there are lots of thoughtful tools that improve the specific navigation process for mobile users. The latest Borgata Casino bonus code allows you to claim two fantastic welcome bonuses, with the details outlined below.  Borgata will match your first deposit up to the value of $1,000. A very generous sum, which is one of the best bonuses of any online casinos. However, it’s important to remember that your funds are subject to a wagering requirement.  This means you must play through the total bonus funds you claim 15 times before you can withdraw any winnings you win with them. This wagering requirement is pretty standard for online casinos, given the generosity of the new customer offer.  The main part of the offer is one of the best available of any online Casino, getting you off to a fantastic start to life with Borgata Casino.  As well as a fantastic deposit match, Borgata Casino gives new players $20 on the house to try out some of their very best slots and table games, excluding jackpot slots and poker tables. This is a great offer for US bettors that only one or two competitors can boast about beating.  The wagering requirements for this bonus are x1, which means if you win with your $20 bonus bet, you can keep the winnings.  Borgata Casino is very impressive, with their range of slots and dedicated poker section proving them to be a strong competitor in the online casino game. Their range of live tables, and the fact they offer users the chance to wager on virtual sports, set them apart from the competition in the best way possible.  Given Borgata’s history in the Casino game, it’s no wonder that they have managed to produce a fantastic online casino.  The Borgata Hotel and Casino has been synonymous with luxury accommodations and legendary gambling for decades. Now, online poker players in Pennsylvania can get the Borgata experience while sitting on their couches. Borgata online poker has a two-part offer for new players: Borgata has built a sterling reputation over the years, and players know that they can trust it. As such, you will likely find a great pool of regular poker competitors online, day or night.  Borgata is completely legit, with their sportsbook being 100% regulated and licensed in a number of states across the US. In order to operate in these states, they need to comply with specific rules and regulations, as well as report their earnings and taxes. Your money and details are completely safe and secure, and you can always use the customer service feature should you need any help.  Borgata Sportsbook is legal and licensed in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The Borgata Casino and Poker are legal and licensed in New Jersey only.  In any of the legal and licensed states in which Borgata operates, you must be at least 21 years of age, and within state lines.  In order to use Borgata, it needs your location to allow you to play. If you are on the browser site, you may receive a pop-up to allow the website to know your location. Setting for geolocation can be found in your wifi, browser or phone setting if you are using your mobile. Make sure to have this turned on, and Borgata is unblocked. Yes, Borgata has a fantastic app on both iOS and Android devices. Their app is free to download from the App Store and Play Store. Unfortunately, users in New York are unable to wager with Borgata Sportsbook or Casino.   You can access all of your account information, including current balance and transaction history, by clicking “My Account,” which is listed under your name in the upper-right-hand corner of the page. Yes, PayPal is one of the many methods accepted on Borgata. For depositing, PayPal transfers are free and instant. For withdrawing money from your Borgata account, PayPal is one of the quickest methods taking 24-48 hours, and, again, it is free to use. Bettors can visit the cashier section to deposit money into your Borgata sportsbook account. The following deposit methods are all accepted: 