
Columbia Global Technology Growth Fund wins for fifth consecutive year, with its 10-year performance recognized for best risk-adjusted returns for third year in a row
 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments today announced that two Columbia funds, the Columbia Dividend Income Fund and Columbia Global Technology Growth Fund, earned 2023 U.S. Refinitiv Lipper Fund Awards. The awards evaluate funds for outperformance versus peers in their respective Lipper classifications for periods ending November 30, 2022.
 
The U.S. Refinitiv Lipper Fund Awards recognize funds and asset management firms for their consistently strong risk-adjusted three-, five-, and 10-year performance relative to their peers, based on Lipper's quantitative, proprietary methodology.2 The award-winning Columbia funds highlight the firm's consistent, long-term equity performance in the technology and equity income sectors.
 
"The awards reflect our strong, long-term investment performance powered by thoughtful decision making and the firm's global research capabilities," said Melda Mergen, Global Head of Equities at Columbia Threadneedle Investments. "These two equity strategies are a great representation of our focus on delivering consistent results to help our clients reach their long-term financial goals."
 
To learn more about Columbia Threadneedle's mutual funds, please visit: https://www.columbiathreadneedleus.com/investment-products/mutual-funds.
 
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
 
About Columbia Threadneedle Investments
 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments is a leading global asset manager that provides a broad range of investment strategies and solutions for individual, institutional and corporate clients around the world. With more than 2,500 people, including over 650 investment professionals based in North America, Europe and Asia, we manage $584 billion of assets across developed and emerging market equities, fixed income, asset allocation solutions and alternatives.3
 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments is the global asset management group of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. AMP. For more information, please visit columbiathreadneedleus.com. Follow us on Twitter.
 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments (Columbia Threadneedle) is the global brand name of the Columbia and Threadneedle group of companies.
 
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
 
1 Within the respective Lipper classification.
 
2 The Lipper Fund Awards are based on the Lipper Leader for Consistent Return rating, which is a risk-adjusted performance measure calculated over 36, 60 and 120 months. The highest Lipper Leader® for Consistent Return (Effective Return) value within each eligible classification determines the fund classification winner over three, five or 10 years. For a detailed explanation, please review the Lipper Leaders methodology document.
 
3 As of December 31, 2022.
 
The Lipper Fund Awards are sponsored by Refinitiv, formerly the Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters, and celebrate exceptional performance throughout the professional investment community. The Lipper Fund Awards recognize the world's top funds, fund management firms, sell-side firms, research analysts, and investor relations teams. For more information, please contact enquiries.awards@refinitiv.com or visit https://www.lipperfundawards.com/.
 
Investors should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of a mutual fund carefully before investing. For a free prospectus or a summary prospectus, which contains this and other important information about the funds, visit columbiathreadneedleus.com. Read the prospectus carefully before investing.
 
Market risk may affect a single issuer, sector of the economy, industry or the market as a whole. Value securities may be unprofitable if the market fails to recognize their intrinsic worth or the portfolio manager misgauged that worth. Investments in a limited number of companies subject the fund to greater risk of loss. The fund may invest significantly in issuers within a particular sector, which may be negatively affected by market, economic or other conditions, making the fund more vulnerable to unfavorable developments in the sector. There are risks associated with fixed-income investments, including credit risk, interest rate risk, and prepayment and extension risk. In general, bond prices rise when interest rates fall and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer term securities. Foreign investments subject the fund to risks, including political, economic, market, social and others within a particular country, as well as to currency instabilities and less stringent financial and accounting standards generally applicable to U.S. issuers. Income from tax-exempt municipal bonds or municipal bond funds may be subject to state and local taxes, and a portion of income may be subject to the federal and/or state alternative minimum tax for certain investors. Federal and state income tax rules will apply to any capital gains. The products of technology companies may be subject to severe competition and rapid obsolescence, and their stocks may be subject to greater price fluctuation.
 
Institutional, Institutional 2 & Institutional 3 Class shares are sold at net asset value and have limited eligibility. Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. offers multiple share classes, not all necessarily available through all firms, and the share class ratings may vary. Contact us for details.
 
Investment products are not federally or FDIC-insured, are not deposits or obligations of, or guaranteed by, any financial institution and involve investment risks, including possible loss of principal and fluctuation in value.
 
Columbia funds and Columbia Acorn funds are distributed by Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc., member FINRA. Columbia funds are managed by Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (CMIA), and Columbia Acorn funds are managed by Columbia Wanger Asset Management, LLC, a subsidiary of CMIA.
 
© 2023 Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Adtrax: 5453251
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230327005034/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.