CALGARY, AB / ACCESSWIRE / May 29, 2023 / Jade Leader Corp. (TSX.V:JADE) ("Jade Leader", or "the Company") is pleased to report that at its Annual & Special Meeting, held on May 26, 2023, Jean-Pierre Jutras, Dr. Shane Ebert, Cornell McDowell and Dr. Peter Megaw were re-elected to the Board of Directors. Shareholders also approved fixing the number of directors at four and the appointment of BDO Canada LLP as Auditors, and ratified the Corporation's stock option plan About Jade and Jade Leader Corp. Recent articles suggest that the international Jade market is now larger than the better known worldwide market for rough diamonds, without any participation in the space by publicly listed Companies prior to the formation of Jade Leader Corp. Jade leader is leveraging this unique combination of mineral exploration expertise and Jade carving knowledge to build a portfolio of 6 Jade exploration properties on which Nephrite Jade with various characteristics has now been identified in stable, mining-friendly jurisdictions in the USA. On Behalf of the Board of Directors, "Jean-Pierre Jutras"Jean-Pierre Jutras, President/Director Jade Shop: www.jadeleader.shop  For Further Information Contact: info@jadeleader.caInstagram: @jadeleadercorpYoutube Channel: Jade Leader Corp.www.jadeleader.caOr Jean Pierre Jutras, Presidentat 1.403.233.0464 The TSX Venture Exchange has neither approved nor disapproved of the contents of this press release. Except for the historical and present factual information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release, including words such as "expects", "projects", "plans", "anticipates" and similar expressions, are forward-looking information that represents management of Jade Leader's internal projections, expectations or beliefs concerning, among other things, future operating results and various components thereof or the economic performance of Jade Leader. The projections, estimates and beliefs contained in such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Jade Leader's actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projections of future performance or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, those described in Jade Leader's filings with the Canadian securities authorities. Accordingly, holders of Jade Leader shares and potential investors are cautioned that events or circumstances could cause results to differ materially from those predicted. Jade Leader disclaims any responsibility to update these forward-looking statements. SOURCE: Jade Leader Corp. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.