HEXO Corp HEXO HEXO has won a complete dismissal of the putative securities class action lawsuit pending before the Québec Superior Court against the company and its former CEO, filed on November 19, 2019 on behalf of certain primary market and secondary market purchasers of securities of the company. HEXO and its former CEO were named in a shareholder class action lawsuit filed in the province of Québec. The lawsuit asserted causes of action for misrepresentations and breaches of disclosure obligations under the Québec Securities Act and the Civil Code of Québec in connection with certain statements contained in HEXO’s prospectus, public documents and public oral statements between April 11, 2018 and March 27, 2020. In a 48-page opinion dated January 23, 2023, the Superior Court of Québec dismissed the plaintiff’s amended motion in its entirety, with costs. The Court agreed with the defendants that there was “no reasonable possibility” that the secondary market claim filed under the Québec Securities Act had a reasonable chance of success, or that the plaintiff had demonstrated an arguable case for a primary market class action or a civil liability class action “for misrepresentation under the general principles of fault in the civil law.” The plaintiff has a right to appeal. “We’re very satisfied with the Court’s detailed opinion, which dismissed the plaintiff’s claims and supports HEXO’s position,” stated Charlie Bowman, CEO and president of HEXO. “This favorable ruling is important for our company as we continue to build investor confidence and look to position HEXO for long-term financial success.” The most successful cannabis business event in the world, the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, returns to Miami for its 16th edition. This is the place where DEALS GET DONE, where money is raised, M&A starts, and companies meet investors and key partners. Join us at the Fontainebleau Miami Beach Hotel in Florida on April 11-12. Don’t miss out. Secure your tickets now. Prices will surge very soon. Photo: Benzinga edit with photos by AJEL and lindsayfox on Pixabay  
 
   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Click on the image for more info. Want to understand what this means for the future of the industry?  Hear directly for top executives, investors and policymakers at the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, coming to Chicago this Oct. 8-9.  Get your tickets now before prices surge by following this link.