
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- GlobeNewsWire - Nasdaq)  Pune India, Feb. 07, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The market has been studied for the below mentioned-segmentation and regional analysis for North America, Europe, Asia, South America, and the Middle East and Africa. These are the key regions where the  suitcases & briefcases market  is operating and is predicted to expand soon. The manufacturers and suppliers involved in the suitcases & briefcases market are present across various countries in the above-mentioned regions.   Get Sample Copy of This Report  @   The report provides a detailed understanding of the market segments which have been formed by combining different prospects such as the type, distribution channel, and region. Apart from this, the key driving factors, restraints, potential growth opportunities, and market challenges are also discussed in the below paragraphs.  The significant players operating in the global  suitcases & briefcases market  are Berry Global, Smurfit Kappa, WestRock Company, Mondi Group, Ampac Holdings, LLC, International Plastics Inc., BioBag International AS, Billerudkorsnas, Huhtamaki Oyj., Fischer Bag Company among others. To achieve a substantial market share in the worldwide suitcases & briefcases market and strengthen their position, manufacturers are pursuing expansion methods such as current developments, mergers and acquisitions, product innovations, collaborations, and partnerships, joint ventures. Suitcases & Briefcases are any personal things a traveller brings on a flight, cruise, or bus, whether they are checked or not. Suitcases & Briefcases, which are made up of bags, cases, and containers, are used to store and transport a traveler's possessions. Antique suitcases and briefcases were frequently made of substantial materials like wood. However, the design of briefcases and suits has drastically changed over time. Depending on the sort of items, the categories may include travel, business, sports, and others. The different distribution channels for suitcases and briefcases include department stores, hypermarkets and supermarkets, internet sales, and others. Suitcases & Briefcases are priced in three different ranges: Value & Mid-Level, Premium, and Luxury. Suitcases & Briefcases has evolved over time. Historically, the most common styles of suitcases and briefcases were chests or trunks made of wood or other solid materials. Licensed movers would transfer these. Since the Second World War, smaller, lighter hand-carriable luggage and bags have replaced traditional suitcases and briefcases as the most common form.   Enquiry Before Buying This Report  @     Scope of Global   Suitcases & Briefcases Market Report       Report Metric     Information       Study Period    2022-2030      Base Year    2022      Forecast Period    2023-2030      Market Share Unit    USD Billion      Segments Covered    Type, Distribution Channel, and Regions      Regions Covered    North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, South America, and Middle-East and Africa      Major Players    Smith & Nephew, Mölnlycke Health Care AB, ConvaTec Group PLC, Ethicon (Johnson & Johnson), Baxter International, URGO Medical, Coloplast Corp., Medtronic, 3M, Derma Sciences Inc. (Integra LifeSciences) among others.      Segmentation Analysis     The travel segment is expected to be the fastest-growing segment in 2022.   The type segment is travel and business. The travel segment is expected to witness the highest growth rate during the forecast period. The fast growing global travel and tourist industry is partly to blame for the rise in the demand for suitcases. The use of renowned athletes as brand ambassadors by manufacturers of suitcases and briefcases also helps to expand the market for this industry.   The offline   segment is expected to be the fastest-growing segment in 2022.   The distribution segment includes offline and online. The offline segment is expected to witness the highest growth rate during the forecast period. The opening of specialised retail sites by top companies in the offline channel is causing the market to grow. Rapid urbanisation, a growing network of specialist retail stores, and customers' preference for the traditional manner of buying briefcases and suitcases at the local retail market will all contribute to an increase in sales of these products.   Regional Analysis   The regional analysis provides a detailed perception of the key regions and the countries. Some of the key countries analyzed for the suitcases & briefcases market include the US, Canada, Mexico, Germany, France, the U.K., Italy, Spain, Russia, China, Japan, India, Brazil, Peru, UAE, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia.   The Asia Pacific region witnessed a major share. As more residents of this region travel abroad, the market is expanding. As of 2019, China had 169 million outbound travellers compared to 50 million from India. Rising domestic travel and tourism are also beneficial to regional development. Additionally, rising disposable income and customers' increased spending on travel accessories are credited with driving the growth of the bags market.     Country Analysis      Germany     Germany's Insulation board market size was valued at USD 3.6 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 5 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 4.2% from 2023 to 2030.  In Germany, where the tourism sector is expanding, both domestic and international travel are rising. Germany experienced much less outbound tourism than the previous year as a result of the outbreak and travel restrictions. But now that the limitations have been relaxed, German tourists are keen to travel once more. German citizens spend the most on international business and leisure travel. Germans choose sturdy, lightweight trolley bags since international flights have weight restrictions on checked baggage. German travellers purchase suitcases and briefcases with smart locks and built-in GPS since there is always a chance that they may be stolen or go missing.    China     China's Suitcases & Briefcases market size was valued at USD 5.8 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 8.56 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 5% from 2023 to 2030.  China, which has rigorous visitor access regulations, is one of the countries with the highest COVID awareness. The nation's borders are now open to all travellers. In addition, more people are expected to travel within their own country. This suggests that the demand for travel bag suppliers would increase. Chinese people are renowned for their simplicity and minimalism, and this extends to their luggage as well. Chinese travel bags look simple, but they are packed with unique features and contain a tonne of capacity. Huge storage capacities and useful features are available for both backpacks and larger bags.    India     India's Suitcases & Briefcases market size was valued at USD 4.8 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 6.87 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 4.6% from 2023 to 2030.  The competition in India's baggage industry has increased significantly as newcomers like Da Milano and long-standing businesses like VIP vie for clients. The demand for travel and business bags is expected to expand due to an increase in travel and tourism activities as well as an increase in business travellers. According to the Indian Ministry of Tourism, around 26.92 million Indians travelled outside of their country in 2019, an increase of 11.66% from 2018. This suggested that there was a higher need for briefcases and suits.  Covid-19 Impact  Covid-19 had a major impact on almost all industries, such as electronics, semiconductors, manufacturing, automobile, etc. However, several companies operating in the technology sector have seen increased revenue due to significant changes in consumer preferences toward technological services. In addition, the pandemic has led to significant growth in technology across developing and developed countries. Furthermore, the growth of the suitcases & briefcases market is mainly driven by the rising travelling.   Buy Now Full Report  @     Contact Us    Rocky Shah    GreyViews    Pune India    Phone: (+44) 162-237-1047    Email:       Web:       Follow Us:   linkedin   | twitter     Browse Related Reports:   Buy Now Pay Later Market By Enterprise Type (Small & Medium Enterprises and Large Enterprises), By Application (Healthcare, Retail, Fashion & Garments, Consumer Electronics and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Anti Acne Dermal Patch Market Size By Type (Herbal Based and Chemical Based), By Age (65+, 18 to 44, 10 to 17, and 45 to 64), By Distribution Channel (E-Commerce Platform, Retail Stores, and Pharmacies & Drug Stores), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Synthetic Lace Front Wigs Market Size By Lace Type (French Lace, Swiss Lace, and Others), By Lace Color (Black, Transparent, Brown, and Others), By Distribution Channel (Specialty Stores, Online Channels, and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Suitcases & Briefcases Market Size By Type (Travel and Business), By Distribution channel (Offline and Online), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Refrigerated Trailer Market Size By Type (Chilled Food and Frozen Food), By End-User (Meat & Seafood, Dairy, Fruits & Vegetables and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030  Laundry Detergent Pods Market Size By Product (Biological and Non-Biological), By Application (Household and Commercial), By Type (Fabric Softener, Detergent Powder, Laundry Liquid, and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Breastfeeding Accessories Market Size By Product (Nipple Care Products, Breast Heating Pads, Breast Shells, Perineal Cooling Pads, Nursing Tank Tops, Breast Pads, Breastmilk Preparation & Cleaning Products, Breast Cooling Pads, Baby Weighing Scales, Maternity/Nursing Bras, Lactation Massagers, Breast Pump Carry/Tote Bags, and Postpartum Recovery Accessories), By Application (Hospital Use and Personal Use), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Premium Cosmetics Market Size By Product (Skincare, Color Cosmetics, Fragrance, Haircare, Suncare, Baby Care, Deodorants, and Bath), By Distribution Channel (Offline and Online), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Parenteral Packaging Market Size By Product Type (Bags, Vials, Ampoules, Pre-Filled Syringes & Cartridges and Ready-to-Use Systems), By Packaging Type (Large Volume Parenteral and Small Volume Parenteral), By Technique (Vials, Bags & Bottles, Ampoules, Prefilled Syringes & Cartridges and Ready to Mix Syringes), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Packaging Robots Market Size By Type (Primary Packaging and Secondary Packaging), By Application (Filling, Case Packing, Pick & Place, Tray Packing and Others), By End-User (Logistics, Consumer Products, Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030    Tags suitcases & briefcases market suitcases & briefcases report suitcases & briefcases size suitcases & briefcases share Related Links   pre-treater laundry products market   brush & dauber caps market   nail care products market   bottled water market   biobased biodegradable plastics market   waxing base paper market    gift card market   children mattress market    wearable materials market   hair color market   MENAFN07022023004107003653ID1105539330 Pune India, Feb. 07, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The market has been studied for the below mentioned-segmentation and regional analysis for North America, Europe, Asia, South America, and the Middle East and Africa. These are the key regions where the  suitcases & briefcases market  is operating and is predicted to expand soon. The manufacturers and suppliers involved in the suitcases & briefcases market are present across various countries in the above-mentioned regions.   Get Sample Copy of This Report  @   The report provides a detailed understanding of the market segments which have been formed by combining different prospects such as the type, distribution channel, and region. Apart from this, the key driving factors, restraints, potential growth opportunities, and market challenges are also discussed in the below paragraphs.  The significant players operating in the global  suitcases & briefcases market  are Berry Global, Smurfit Kappa, WestRock Company, Mondi Group, Ampac Holdings, LLC, International Plastics Inc., BioBag International AS, Billerudkorsnas, Huhtamaki Oyj., Fischer Bag Company among others. To achieve a substantial market share in the worldwide suitcases & briefcases market and strengthen their position, manufacturers are pursuing expansion methods such as current developments, mergers and acquisitions, product innovations, collaborations, and partnerships, joint ventures. Suitcases & Briefcases are any personal things a traveller brings on a flight, cruise, or bus, whether they are checked or not. Suitcases & Briefcases, which are made up of bags, cases, and containers, are used to store and transport a traveler's possessions. Antique suitcases and briefcases were frequently made of substantial materials like wood. However, the design of briefcases and suits has drastically changed over time. Depending on the sort of items, the categories may include travel, business, sports, and others. The different distribution channels for suitcases and briefcases include department stores, hypermarkets and supermarkets, internet sales, and others. Suitcases & Briefcases are priced in three different ranges: Value & Mid-Level, Premium, and Luxury. Suitcases & Briefcases has evolved over time. Historically, the most common styles of suitcases and briefcases were chests or trunks made of wood or other solid materials. Licensed movers would transfer these. Since the Second World War, smaller, lighter hand-carriable luggage and bags have replaced traditional suitcases and briefcases as the most common form.   Enquiry Before Buying This Report  @     Scope of Global   Suitcases & Briefcases Market Report     Segmentation Analysis     The travel segment is expected to be the fastest-growing segment in 2022.   The type segment is travel and business. The travel segment is expected to witness the highest growth rate during the forecast period. The fast growing global travel and tourist industry is partly to blame for the rise in the demand for suitcases. The use of renowned athletes as brand ambassadors by manufacturers of suitcases and briefcases also helps to expand the market for this industry.   The offline   segment is expected to be the fastest-growing segment in 2022.   The distribution segment includes offline and online. The offline segment is expected to witness the highest growth rate during the forecast period. The opening of specialised retail sites by top companies in the offline channel is causing the market to grow. Rapid urbanisation, a growing network of specialist retail stores, and customers' preference for the traditional manner of buying briefcases and suitcases at the local retail market will all contribute to an increase in sales of these products.   Regional Analysis   The regional analysis provides a detailed perception of the key regions and the countries. Some of the key countries analyzed for the suitcases & briefcases market include the US, Canada, Mexico, Germany, France, the U.K., Italy, Spain, Russia, China, Japan, India, Brazil, Peru, UAE, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia.   Country Analysis     Germany's Insulation board market size was valued at USD 3.6 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 5 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 4.2% from 2023 to 2030.  In Germany, where the tourism sector is expanding, both domestic and international travel are rising. Germany experienced much less outbound tourism than the previous year as a result of the outbreak and travel restrictions. But now that the limitations have been relaxed, German tourists are keen to travel once more. German citizens spend the most on international business and leisure travel. Germans choose sturdy, lightweight trolley bags since international flights have weight restrictions on checked baggage. German travellers purchase suitcases and briefcases with smart locks and built-in GPS since there is always a chance that they may be stolen or go missing.   China's Suitcases & Briefcases market size was valued at USD 5.8 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 8.56 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 5% from 2023 to 2030.  China, which has rigorous visitor access regulations, is one of the countries with the highest COVID awareness. The nation's borders are now open to all travellers. In addition, more people are expected to travel within their own country. This suggests that the demand for travel bag suppliers would increase. Chinese people are renowned for their simplicity and minimalism, and this extends to their luggage as well. Chinese travel bags look simple, but they are packed with unique features and contain a tonne of capacity. Huge storage capacities and useful features are available for both backpacks and larger bags.   India's Suitcases & Briefcases market size was valued at USD 4.8 billion in 2022 and is expected to reach USD 6.87 billion by 2030, at a CAGR of 4.6% from 2023 to 2030.  The competition in India's baggage industry has increased significantly as newcomers like Da Milano and long-standing businesses like VIP vie for clients. The demand for travel and business bags is expected to expand due to an increase in travel and tourism activities as well as an increase in business travellers. According to the Indian Ministry of Tourism, around 26.92 million Indians travelled outside of their country in 2019, an increase of 11.66% from 2018. This suggested that there was a higher need for briefcases and suits.  Covid-19 Impact  Covid-19 had a major impact on almost all industries, such as electronics, semiconductors, manufacturing, automobile, etc. However, several companies operating in the technology sector have seen increased revenue due to significant changes in consumer preferences toward technological services. In addition, the pandemic has led to significant growth in technology across developing and developed countries. Furthermore, the growth of the suitcases & briefcases market is mainly driven by the rising travelling.   Buy Now Full Report  @     Contact Us    Rocky Shah    GreyViews    Pune India    Phone: (+44) 162-237-1047    Email:       Web:       Follow Us:   linkedin   | twitter     Browse Related Reports:   Buy Now Pay Later Market By Enterprise Type (Small & Medium Enterprises and Large Enterprises), By Application (Healthcare, Retail, Fashion & Garments, Consumer Electronics and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Anti Acne Dermal Patch Market Size By Type (Herbal Based and Chemical Based), By Age (65+, 18 to 44, 10 to 17, and 45 to 64), By Distribution Channel (E-Commerce Platform, Retail Stores, and Pharmacies & Drug Stores), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Synthetic Lace Front Wigs Market Size By Lace Type (French Lace, Swiss Lace, and Others), By Lace Color (Black, Transparent, Brown, and Others), By Distribution Channel (Specialty Stores, Online Channels, and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Suitcases & Briefcases Market Size By Type (Travel and Business), By Distribution channel (Offline and Online), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Refrigerated Trailer Market Size By Type (Chilled Food and Frozen Food), By End-User (Meat & Seafood, Dairy, Fruits & Vegetables and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030  Laundry Detergent Pods Market Size By Product (Biological and Non-Biological), By Application (Household and Commercial), By Type (Fabric Softener, Detergent Powder, Laundry Liquid, and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Breastfeeding Accessories Market Size By Product (Nipple Care Products, Breast Heating Pads, Breast Shells, Perineal Cooling Pads, Nursing Tank Tops, Breast Pads, Breastmilk Preparation & Cleaning Products, Breast Cooling Pads, Baby Weighing Scales, Maternity/Nursing Bras, Lactation Massagers, Breast Pump Carry/Tote Bags, and Postpartum Recovery Accessories), By Application (Hospital Use and Personal Use), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Premium Cosmetics Market Size By Product (Skincare, Color Cosmetics, Fragrance, Haircare, Suncare, Baby Care, Deodorants, and Bath), By Distribution Channel (Offline and Online), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Parenteral Packaging Market Size By Product Type (Bags, Vials, Ampoules, Pre-Filled Syringes & Cartridges and Ready-to-Use Systems), By Packaging Type (Large Volume Parenteral and Small Volume Parenteral), By Technique (Vials, Bags & Bottles, Ampoules, Prefilled Syringes & Cartridges and Ready to Mix Syringes), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   Packaging Robots Market Size By Type (Primary Packaging and Secondary Packaging), By Application (Filling, Case Packing, Pick & Place, Tray Packing and Others), By End-User (Logistics, Consumer Products, Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Others), Regions, Segmentation, and Projection till 2030   MENAFN07022023004107003653ID1105539330 MENAFN07022023004107003653ID1105539330 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN