In a report released on August 14, Arun Viswanathan from RBC Capital maintained a Buy rating on Berry Global Group (BERY – Research Report), with a price target of $78.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $65.38. According to TipRanks, Viswanathan is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 5.1% and a 56.40% success rate. Viswanathan covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as PPG Industries, Celanese, and Graphic Packaging. Berry Global Group has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $75.89, implying a 16.08% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 14, Citi also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $80.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $68.01  and a one-year low of $43.96. Currently, Berry Global Group has an average volume of 1.37M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 24 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is neutral on the stock. Earlier this month, William J. Norman, the President of BERY sold 39,000.00 shares for a total of $2,581,620.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Berry Global Group, Inc. engages in the provision of value added engineered materials, nonwoven specialty materials and consumer packaging with customized solutions. It operates through the following segments: Consumer Packaging International, Consumer Packaging North America, Health, Hygiene & Specialties, and Engineered Materials. The Consumer Packaging International segment consists of containers, closures, dispensing systems, pharmaceutical devices and packaging, polythene films, and technical components. The Consumer Packaging North America segment consists of containers, foodservice items, closures, over caps, bottles, prescription vials, and tubes. The Engineered Materials segment consists of tapes and adhesives, polyethylene-based film products, can liners, and specialty coated and laminated products. The Health, Hygiene & Specialties segment consists of nonwoven specialty materials and films used in hygiene, infection prevention, personal care, industrial, construction, and filtration applications. The company was founded on November 18, 2005 and is headquartered in Evansville, IN.  Read More on BERY: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks