If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on July 10, 2023
 
By: Christy Bieber
 Writer  KEY POINTS Amazon Subscribe and Save is a feature the online retailer offers that allows you to get reduced prices on items if you arrange for them to be shipped on a regular schedule. When you buy five or more items through Subscribe and Save, you can qualify for a 15% discount on them, which leaves you more money in your checking account. I buy many items through Subscribe and Save, both because I like that this discount means charging less on my credit card and also for convenience. In fact, here are a few key items I always make sure to purchase using this method. We don't drink sodas in our house but we occasionally like to have a drink that has more flavor than plain water can provide. Bai 5 drinks are our solution. But, they can be expensive. And if you buy them in stores, you often are stuck choosing between purchasing individual bottles or buying variety packs that contain some flavors we aren't big fans of.


 Through Amazon Subscribe and Save, however, I can buy packs of just the flavors we want. This is a better value for us because we'd rather have a 12-pack of the specific kinds of drinks we enjoy. Dishwashing detergent is another item that we always buy through Subscribe and Save. Bottles of dish detergent are heavy and a pain to bring home. Amazon has Seventh Generation (our preferred brand) at a competitive price. We can get a 6 pack for $36.03, which comes down to about $6 a bottle -- considerably less than the $13.07 per bottle we'd spend at a local big box store. Supplements for my dog are another item that I always opt to get from Subscribe and Save. My dog is 16.5 years old and takes a lot of different supplements to help keep her heart strong after heart surgery and to help stave off arthritis in her joints so she can continue to take long walks with me. Many of these supplements wouldn't be easy to find in local stores. And I don't want to have to remember to get them when she runs out and risk her missing a day or two of pills until I'm able to pick them up. With Subscribe and Save, I just get a new bottle at the exact right time that the old one is running out and I never have to think or worry about whether she'll get her vitamins. Finally, baby diapers are another item that I love to get from Amazon. It is really convenient to have diapers just show up at my house rather than having to carry the bulky items. Plus, this is one thing you definitely don't want to run out of, so it's helpful to have them arriving on a regular basis -- rather than being forced to remember when I might be running low. There are other items I add to my Subscribe and Save list on a periodic basis, but these are the must-buys. The convenience and value simply can't be beat. 
Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with 15 years of experience. She has a JD from UCLA and is a former college instructor.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.