Microsoft's Bing search engine, powered by OpenAI's ChatGPT, is now open for beta testing. Interested users can sign up to receive an invitation from Microsoft, which has already begun sending out invites to select users across the world.   



 ALSO READ: Best smartphones to gift your tech-savvy partner this Valentine’s Day According to Microsoft, more than a million applications have been received to test the new ChatGPT-based Bing. Although still in development, early testers have been praising the new and improved Bing, based on the latest version of ChatGPT. ALSO READ: Online dating site scam: Lending money to your online lover? BEWARE! Users who don't have an invitation from Microsoft can still check out the new Bing in preview mode, although they won't be able to search for a query. Instead, they can select from pre-defined queries featured in the preview mode. To gain access to the preview mode, users can set Microsoft defaults on their PC, which involves making Edge their default web browser and adding the Microsoft Bing Search extension for Google Chrome. A colleague who received an invitation from Microsoft to test out the new Bing described it as an "AI-powered co-pilot for the web". With the ChatGPT technology behind it, Microsoft's Bing is expected to offer significant improvements over its previous versions. As it enters the beta phase, Microsoft is hopeful that the new Bing will be well-received by users and cement its position as a leading search engine. FAQs    
Related Stories

Tech industry in turmoil: Layoffs on the rise as companies struggle to stay afloatMicrosoft cuts 10,000 jobs to fuel future growth: Here’s what CEO Satya Nadella has to say Microsoft started rolling out tabs in Notepad for Windows 11Tech employees earning up to $1 million per year got laid off: Know-why? Microsoft to remove Windows 10 Home, and Pro downloads from the saleMicrosoft Apps down: Know why thousands of users are unable to accessMicrosoft clarifies the reason for recent mega outrage: All you need to know ChatGPT creator OpenAI launches new platform to track AI-generated text: How does it work? ChatGPT becomes the fastest-growing app in the world, records 100 million users in 2 monthsChatGPT to face competition with its new Google rival ‘Bard’: Know everything Why Microsoft discontinued the Authenticator app from Apple Watch?ChatGPT owner OpenAI traffic up by 3,572 per cent, reaches top 50 global sites: Know-moreFake ChatGPT apps are stealing data and must be deleted immediately: Here is the listGoogle loses over $100 billion market value after AI chatbot Bard provides a false responseHere are the top 5 ChatGPT extensions for Google Chrome that would boost your productivityVelocity launches Lexi- India's first ChatGPT-powered AI chatbot  Q1: What is Microsoft's ChatGPT and how is it used in Bing? 
Microsoft's ChatGPT is an artificial intelligence language model developed by OpenAI and integrated into the Bing search engine. It helps Bing provide more accurate and relevant search results to users by understanding natural language queries. Q2: How can I participate in the beta testing for Microsoft's ChatGPT-powered Bing?
Interested users can sign up for beta testing on Microsoft's website to receive an invitation. Microsoft is already sending out invites to select users worldwide. Top News Kolkata rape-murder: Padma awardee doctors write to PM Modi seeking law for healthcare workers Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside Cricket West Indies announce squad for T20I series against South Africa; KKR star misses out Related Technology News Massive price drop on Google Pixel 8a: Save up to Rs 13,000 on Amazon India Poco Pad 5G tablet set to launch with 10,000mAh battery: Details Realme introduces 320W charging: Phones fully charge in just 4 minutes, but is it safe? OnePlus Buds Pro 3 set to launch on August 20: Expected features and price WhatsApp brings Custom Sticker creation with Meta AI: Here’s how it works Latest News Assam Police forms multiple special investigation teams to crack ULFA-I bomb cases  Haryana: Two girls fall in pot of hot vegetables at 'bhandara' in Faridabad, one dies  Cricket West Indies announce squad for T20I series against South Africa; KKR star misses out  Russia: Volcano erupts after powerful earthquake in Far East, scientists warn of stronger one   © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Muqabla: Turmoil over teacher recruitment...What solution does Yogi Adityanath have?    Haqiqat Kya Hai: Has CBI reached real killer of victim doctor?    Coffee Par Kurukshetra: Has 'Operation Lotus' started in Jharkhand and Haryana?    Paris Olympics 2024: Vinesh Phogat on Olympic Disappointment Pain, says 'Healing time is uncertain'    Virat Kohli completes 16 years in International cricket | SA VS WI Test |18th Aug | Sports Wrap    Kolkata rape-murder: Padma awardee doctors write to PM Modi seeking law for healthcare workers   Champai Soren to join BJP? Jitan Manjhi's 'welcome to NDA' post hints at 'Jharkhand Tiger' switch   Champai Soren highlights major friction in JMM, likely to join BJP today   Govt holds high-level meeting on monkeypox preparedness review    Dhankhar says, 'Those who prioritise individual, political interests over country should be...'   Russia: Volcano erupts after powerful earthquake in Far East, scientists warn of stronger one    Indian-origin couple, daughter killed in car crash in US, police call it 'worst' crashes in 26 years   Bangladesh: No respite for Sheikh Hasina, case filed against her for carrying 'mass murder' in 2013    'Deeply anguished': Air India after its cabin crew 'sexually' assaulted at 5-star hotel in London   Germany: Ferris wheel catches fire at music festival, leaves more than 18 injured | VIDEO    Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside   Ananya Panday UNVEILS first poster of Prime Video series Call Me Bae, trailer to be out on THIS date   'Got a problem with that?': Amitabh Bachchan REVEALS real reason why he keeps working even at 81   Assamese musician Baba's song 'Hold Me Tonight' touches No 1 spot on iTunes US pop charts   Before Stree 2, THESE 10 Bollywood sequels shattered box office records    Cricket West Indies announce squad for T20I series against South Africa; KKR star misses out   Deepti Sharma's late heroics against Welsh Fire power London Spirit to The Hundred Women 2024 title   Mohammed Shami set to return after 11 months on sidelines; likely to feature in Ranji Trophy games   WDL vs NDS, DPL 2024 Highlights: West Delhi Lions record huge win over North Delhi Strikers   'Ten years of unfinished business': Nathan Lyon tips Australia to end Border-Gavaskar Trophy drought   Massive price drop on Google Pixel 8a: Save up to Rs 13,000 on Amazon India   Poco Pad 5G tablet set to launch with 10,000mAh battery: Details    Realme introduces 320W charging: Phones fully charge in just 4 minutes, but is it safe?   OnePlus Buds Pro 3 set to launch on August 20: Expected features and price   WhatsApp brings Custom Sticker creation with Meta AI: Here’s how it works   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    What is Waqf Board Bill? Why was there a need for amendment?   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   'India needs to create 148 million additional jobs by 2030': IMF's Gita Gopinath   Union Cabinet gives nod to two new airport, three metro rail projects across India | DETAILS   Saraswati Saree Depot IPO allotment: Key details and step-by-step guide to check status   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study   How can PCOS/PCOD impact female fertility? Know from expert   5 important things men should do in their 20s, 30s and 40s to lower cancer risk  