Claro Colombia press release This is an automated translation of the original press release issued in Spanish Bogotá, June 7, 2023. Claro Colombia, Samsung and Nagra announced that Claro tv+ can now be enjoyed on Samsung Smart TVs without the need for an additional decoder. This launch expands the multiscreen content consumption experience for customers, facilitating access to all the content in this entertainment ecosystem. This joint development with Samsung and Nagra is available for 2020, 2021 and 2022 model smart TVs, and generates a new viewing experience and ease of access, taking full advantage of all Samsung Smart TV hardware, using the Same TV remote. “We work together with Samsung and Nagra to facilitate access for our customers who have televisions of this brand without the need for additional devices. Thus, we reinforce our purpose that the client can watch television how and when he wants, in a simple way and without the need for a decoder. In addition, to strengthen our purpose of generating the same experiences for our clients from any device and with an Internet connection”, pointed out Rodrigo de Gusmao, Executive Director of the Claro Colombia Mass Market Unit. This solution offers an intuitive customer experience with built-in security. To use it, Claro TV+ customers only have to download the Claro TV Key application from the Tizen platform on Samsung Smart TVs. “We are excited to innovate hand in hand with our strategic allies, impacting the user experience. With this new option, we expand our portfolio of entertainment applications, so that customers can enjoy an immersive experience when watching their favorite content with the highest image quality and smart sound from our televisions”, said Paula Andrea Ospina, VD Marketing Head of Samsung. The development also meets MovieLabs requirements for enhanced content protection of 4K Ultra HD, HDR, and early release content. “We are proud of the long-term relationship we have built with Claro Colombia and our continued work to help them extend their leadership position in the market,” said Sebastián Kramer, Nagra's Senior Vice President of Business Development and Product Line Management. "Building on the success of Claro Colombia and its innovative Claro Tv+ proposal, this is another proven solution to facilitate the experience and respond to the growing consumer market in Colombia." Claro tv+ is the entertainment ecosystem where customers can enjoy the experience of live programming anywhere and anytime as long as they have an Internet connection. About Claro Colombia: Claro is the mobile telecommunications operator with the largest coverage in Colombia. It carries its 2G, 3G and 4G signal to 1,098 municipalities in the country with a network of more than 9,600 base stations and has more than 37 million users who have chosen it as their mobile voice and data service operator. It also offers fixed telephony, broadband Internet and closed television services to more than 3 million homes. About América Móvil: América Móvil is the leading integrated telecommunications services company in Latin America. The deployment of its world-class communications platform allows it to offer its clients a portfolio of value-added services and enhanced communication solutions in 23 countries in the Americas and Europe. As of March 31, 2023, the company had 374.3 million access lines, which include 300.9 million mobile subscribers and 73.4 million fixed income-generating units (fixed telephony, broadband and pay television). ). Subscribe to the leading business intelligence platform in Latin America with different tools for Providers, Contractors, Operators, Government, Legal, Financial and Insurance industries. BNamericas provides an overview of Latin America's 15 public cloud regions deployed in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Colombia. The funds were delivered by Deutsche Bank, IDB Invest and Proparco to support operations in Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Peru. Subscribe to Latin America’s most trusted business intelligence platform.  Get critical information about thousands of ICT projects in Latin America: what stages they're in, capex, related companies, contacts and more. Request Demo  Get critical information about thousands of ICT companies in Latin America: their projects, contacts, shareholders, related news and more. Request Demo Subscribe to BNamericas to find news reports, information on projects and contact information relating to thousands of companies that drive business in Latin America.  3 viewing opportunities left   Request a demo and access exclusive content 