The company has apologised for the outages Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Keep up to date with the latest stories with our WalesOnline newsletter We have more newsletters Virgin Media users have been left frustrated after their internet services went down for hours overnight. Thousands of Virgin Media customers have reportedly been left without internet, with some reporting on social media it went down at around 1am.  The company itself confirmed they had an issue that was affecting broadband services and their contact centres at around 8.20am this morning. They said on Twitter: "We’re aware of an issue that is affecting broadband services for Virgin Media customers as well as our contact centres. Our teams are currently working to identify and fix the problem as quickly as possible and we apologise to those customers affected." According to website DownDetector, reports of Virgin broadband being unavailable started coming in from customers at around 1.15am on Tuesday, with nearly 15,000 reports on the website at 2am. Nearly 29,000 reports of Virgin services being down were reported at around 8am, when many people would have been logging on to start work.  DownDetector's map shows reports came from customers in places like Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham, Cardiff and London. Customers took to Virgin Media's Twitter page to express their frustration that there was no confirmation of the problem from the company until after 8am this morning.  One person wrote: "A sleepless night thanks to @virginmedia and ZERO information or apology. Things go wrong, the least you can do is tell us via a reliable service page. Would have saved me a trip to the office at 3am." Another said: "Ah someone has finally logged in to the Virgin Media twitter account. The fact it took you 8 hours to become ‘aware’ of the issue fills me with confidence that you’ll fix it quickly…" A third worried user said: "How can vulnerable customers get in touch? Even the emergency phone my parents were given by you doesn't help to get in touch with Virgin Media and we've wasted credit trying to call you. Can't get through app as saying is now blocked and online is impossible. This is stressful." Others said the company should reimburse customers for the outage. One wrote: "Just let me know when you’re discounting the bill for this." According to reports, Virgin Media's own website was down until around 8.30am today, with the Guardian suggesting it is now serving a mobile version of the website, even on a desktop.  Some users are still suffering problems, although others have reported they are back online again. One person reported they pressed the reset button and it is now working, although the router is still showing a problem.  