Mobility scooter users are now free to broaden their horizons by taking them on to Northern trains Letting the train take the strain is a sentiment many more Northern travellers can now get on board with, thanks to the rail operator's mobility scooter scheme. More than 1,000 people with disabilities have signed up for a free permit, enabling them to safely board using electric mobility scooters at 160 stations, on 28 routes operated by Northern, the UK’s second-largest train operator.  Since the scheme was introduced two years ago, the Northern Accessibility User Group (NAUG), which works with the train company on improving access for all, has received many messages from travellers with disabilities, whose experiences have been transformed. Tony Jennings, a mobility scooter user, collaborates with Northern on improving access to its services. He says, “We’ve had so much feedback from people saying, ‘This has changed my life!’; ‘I can now go and visit my family’, or ‘I can enjoy days out like everyone else.’  “Train travel is meant to be affordable, and not everyone has the means to buy a wheelchair-accessible car, so this scheme has transformed the lives of over 1,000 people – 1,000 families, in fact – by providing easier access to the world around them.” Tony blazed a trail by becoming the first passenger to be issued with a permit to board a Northern train, using a ramp, at his local station, Ulverston in the Lake District Now many others with a disability are also making the most of the greater freedom to travel the scheme has provided.  “We all want to take part in everything society has to offer, whether that's work, education or leisure,” says Tony. ‘Soon after I got my permit, my wife and I had friends staying with us, and together we travelled the length of the Cumbrian coastline – one of the most beautiful lines in the country. “Previously I wouldn’t have been able to join them on a trip like that, and seeing those spectacular sights with people I care about was really lovely.” To ensure the safety of all passengers, scooter users, many of whom rely on the vehicles in place of other mobility aids, such as power chairs, must register to ensure their device is the right size and weight and has sufficient manoeuvrability.  It is the smaller, lighter Class 2 mobility scooters that can be taken on Northern trains. These must also be capable of travelling up a six-degree incline, to ensure they can climb access ramps; navigate a maximum turning circle of 1.5m; drive no faster than 4mph, and fit within a standard wheelchair space of 120cm by 70cm. Registered passengers are given personalised stickers to place on their vehicles; if that’s not possible, they are also issued with a card to show to staff. Through the Passenger Assist service, scooter users, like all customers with disabilities, can request additional support online up to two hours before they travel. This will ensure staff are on hand with ramps, and to help with boarding and disembarking at either end of their journey. Customers can also receive assistance without booking in advance just by requesting help when the train arrives. A designated area for up to two vehicles – scooters or wheelchairs – with an accessible toilet close by is available on each train. Before the introduction of the permit scheme, Northern – in common with many other operators – only allowed mobility scooters that could be folded on its trains, making rail journeys impossible for many who rely on mobility scooters. Maxine Myers, Northern’s accessibility improvement manager, says one hurdle she and her team have had to overcome is a widespread lack of awareness of just how vital mobility scooters are to many people. “Sadly – and in part due to how they have been portrayed in the TV comedy series Benidorm – it’s often assumed that people using mobility scooters can manage without them and don’t necessarily use them as a mobility aid,” says Maxine. “In fact, scooters are mostly used as an alternative to a power chair, as the handlebars can be a better option for people who, due to their disability, struggle to operate a joystick.  “Electric wheelchairs are also very expensive, while you can often pick up a second-hand scooter for just a few hundred pounds. And they are no less essential to many people’s ability to get around.” Northern has teamed up with mobility device retailer TGA, which has identified scooters suitable for travel on Northern’s routes. It will sign up customers for the permit scheme and is offering a 10 per cent discount on purchases. To benefit from this scheme, quote ‘Northern trains’ when ordering or call TGA on 0800 144 8800 for further assistance.