Ghana Women's Premier League giants, Hasaacas Ladies have signed a partnership agreement with Betika. The sponsorship deal was announced by the fast growing gaming firm in Ghana on September 28,2023 at their head office in East Legon, Accra. According the Country Manager, John Kwawam, partnering with the Hasmal was always top of their agenda. "We wanted Betika to be the first who would partner with an amazing club like Hasaacas Ladies because they are huge and we wanted to be part of this journey. “Also Betika is globally known in nine countries that we operate in. Once we support a club, whether it's football or any other sport, we try to see how we can assist their players as well in growing, in nurturing their game and seeing where they can reach," he said. He also revealed the type of contractural agreement they have with the Sekondi-based side. "This is an open contract, we don't look at the dates because we are working as one-on-one. We believe that our partnership will last for dates, it's an open date", he concluded. President of Hasaacas Ladies, Nana Banyin Eyison, also spoke about their new alliance. "We saw the good they are doing and zeal they have to promote football in Ghana so it was not a surprise when they agreed to partner with us. Today is a happy day for us because we've been praying for this day. We saw what they did with Kotoko and were confident we could also have that because when it comes women's football, we are the number one in Ghana and number two in Africa." Hasaacas Ladies are record four-time champions of the Ghana Women’s Premier League and became the first Ghanaian club to participate in the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League, reaching the final in 2021. 
The Multimedia Group
 
Advertise With Us
 
Contact Us
 
Terms of Use
 
Privacy Policy
 
Joy 99.7 FM
 
Adom 106.3 FM
 
Hitz 103.9 FM
 
Asempa 94.7 FM
 
Luv 99.5 FM
 
Nhyira 104.5 FM
 
Joy News
 
Adom TV
 
Joy Prime
 
MultiTVWorld.com
 
Adom TV (Audio)
 
Joy News (Audio)
 
YouTube
 
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Instagram
 
LinkedIn
 
Infographics
 
Games
 
Habitat Fair
 
Impact Makers
 Archives