Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Help us change more lives, join TUKO.co.ke’s Patreon programme. The popular betting company, Betika has announced Eli Kipruto Rotich as their first winner of the weekly mega jackpot competition. The 22-year-old IT student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) was declared the winner of KSh 200 million after correctly predicting 17 football matches. While revealing that he used KSh 49 to place his winning bet, the new millionaire, who has been betting for the last three years said he has never lost hope in betting despite losing on some occasions. Read also KCPE 2022: Teen Who Just Buried Maternal Grandpa Gets Reason to Smile After Scoring 415 Marks PAY ATTENTION: Join TUKO.co.ke Telegram channel! Never miss important updates The winner, who is the fifth born in a family of seven,  resides in Nakuru with his brother.  He disclosed that he usually spends KSh 100 every weekend on betting.  He thanked Betika for having offered him a financial advisor to guide him on how best to utilise the winnings. Read also Dandora Boy Dazzles with Creative House Replicas, Hopes to Meet Ababu Namwamba He insisted that his priority is to build his parents a decent home and clear his education, adding that he has no plans of marrying despite his new riches. Nyandarua County Executive Committee member (CEC)  in charge of Lands, Physical Planning, and Urbanisation John Ndung'u Muiru was also recently unveiled as this year's SportPesa Mid Week Jackpot winner. Muiru, who won the KSh 38,792,902 jackpot on Thursday, October 27, presented himself at the SportPesa offices today, Saturday, October 29, after attending an hour-long vetting at the Nyandarua county assembly on Friday, October 28. SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri confirmed the news to TUKO.co.ke when contacted for comment. Additional reporting by John Papanoo, TUKO.co.ke correspondent. PAY ATTENTION: Click “See First” under the “Following” tab to see TUKO News on your News Feed Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Amos Khaemba                                    (Current affairs editor)
                            
Amos Khaemba is an accredited journalist and current affairs editor at TUKO.co.ke. He holds a degree in Communication and Journalism from Moi University having graduated in 2015. Attended training by Google News Initiative Journalism. Has over 2 years of experience in the digital media industry. Previously worked at Kenya News Agency and Kivumbi.co.ke. Email: amos.khaemba@tuko.co.ke
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you