Courtney Lawes will win his 98th England cap against Wales at Twickenham on Saturday Courtney Lawes says his consistency of performance is "night and day" compared to the start of his career as he prepares for a fourth Rugby World Cup. England vice-captain Lawes has battled a string of injuries to return to the starting XV for Saturday's match with Wales at Twickenham.  And the Northampton flanker says it is "pretty nuts" to be on the verge of another World Cup at the age of 34. "It really does fly by," Lawes told BBC Sport.  "All your seasons and all your pre-seasons almost blend into one and it's really hard to differentiate between them. "You just get through. You just do your best and work your hardest.  "I think because you are always, or you should be, striving to get better, to do more, to be a better player, it just kind of pushes you on and keeps you going year after year.  "And eventually you end up 34 years old at your fourth World Cup and just hoping to be a part of it." England recall Farrell and Vunipola for Wales return match Lawes was in outstanding form last summer, captaining England to a series victory in Australia, before missing the autumn because of concussion and a subsequent issue with his vestibular system. His Six Nations involvement was then heavily curtailed because of calf and shoulder problems. "If we look back to last summer I was probably playing my best rugby, and then to have four injuries in one season and just not be able to stay on the park was obviously very tough, but you get through it," he said. "Hopefully, I am out of the back of it now and I am feeling quite confident going into the game. "I was always pretty determined to get back but you never can be too sure, especially when you get a bit older." Lawes has been one of the great England forwards of his generation, making his debut as a 20-year-old in 2009, playing at World Cups in 2011, 2015 and 2019, and being a key part of the British and Irish Lions tours in 2017 and 2021.  However, after announcing himself to international rugby he admits he "definitely plateaued" in his early career before "kicking on" in his late twenties.  "I burst onto the scene pretty quickly and then definitely plateaued a bit and got a little bit lazy through the middle of my career," he explained. "But since then from 26 or 27 I have really been able to kick on.  "I have really tried to learn everything I can, about the game, about myself, and about how you perform consistently.  "And I think that's really helped me push on and be the player that I am,  which is consistent, and then from the big games you try and play out of your skin." And Lawes explains that his consistency levels are markedly improved compared to the start of his England career.  "It's night and day especially in terms of consistency of performance," he added. "When I was younger I was much more up and down as a lot of young people are, because you have to learn what makes you tick.  "But now I feel like I have got a lot of strings to my bow, so it doesn't matter exactly where the game goes, I can always have a bit of an impact." Who made BBC Sport readers' XV for England's World Cup opener? As he nears a century of England caps - Saturday will be his 98th - Lawes says he wants to enjoy the rest of his career while it lasts.  "I am just looking to enjoy my last year or two playing rugby and hopefully winning a bit of gold," he said.  "I just want to feel like I have been the best player I can be before I retire. "To be honest I don't think I ever will feel I have, but that's what I want to be honest, rather than accolades. "Obviously it would be amazing to win a World Cup, a Premiership, a European Cup, but it's not entirely in my hands that.  "But what is in my hands is my ability to go out there and express myself on the pitch." The twisted mind of Michael Sams: Will Stephanie Slater's kidnapper be given parole? A new drug, a new story, a new era:  LA's streets are about to get more dangerous... Sinner cleared after testing positive twice for banned substance  'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' Women's T20 World Cup moved from Bangladesh to UAE Messy, tender comedy from Kyla Harris Tetraplegic artist Freya asks her chaotic best friend Jo to be her carer in her new home What do you do when your daughter marries an idiot? Greg Davies, Andy Samberg and Taylor Lautner bring a piece of Hollywood to Lichfield A host of stars bid to become Celebrity MasterChef 2024 Celebrities whip up culinary triumphs in the MasterChef kitchen An absorbing mystery in a beautiful Swedish setting Haunted by the past, grief therapist Vera believes her missing brother is still alive 'Pope and England's chance to prepare for life without Stokes' 'Hull overcomes Olympics setback for Women's Open bid' PFL turns to boxing's blueprint – gimmick or genius? 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.