Until 23:59pm tonight, the Shark Style iQ Ionic Hair Dryer has 25% off in the Amazon Prime Day sales - which some people have been saying is better than Dyson Hair care enthusiasts have been blown away by a hair dryer that is "as good, if not better than the Dyson" and "dries hair in no time". The Shark Style iQ Ionic Hair Dryer usually retails around £200, but for Amazon Prime customers, today is your last chance to get it for 25% off - reduced to £149.99. The hairdryer, which comes with three different 'intelligent' stylers; a style brush to detangle and smooth, concentrator for precision and a diffuser to enhance natural curls, has received high praise for its ability to dry hair at a fast rate and for doing so with little to no heat damage. With the three different attachments, you can recreate a plethora of salon styles from the comfort of your own home from big bouncy blow-outs to super sleek straight styles.  Not to mention it lends itself to a whole range of hair types - from super curly coils to those who have natural poker straight locks, and has the option for you to change up the temperature and airflow to get the best results for your hair - to lock in your style, too, it has a button to give a burst of cool air. And it's proved to be a hit amongst Amazon shoppers who have given the styling tool a thumbs up with over 200 five star reviews.  "Dries my long hair in no time!" said one, "This hairdryer is brilliant, and great value for money. All the attachments make it easy to style your hair, and it doesn't make your hair go frizzy or fluffy like my other did. It's a nice weight, and not to heavy. I love all the shark products I have." Another five star customer added: "Two Dysons down and now on to a Shark (having followed a similar route with my vacuum cleaners!). Both Dysons have broken - the second one in under a year because the internal filter can’t cope when you use any sort of product on your hair. I’d call that a major design flaw! Yes, you can take the whole thing apart and clean it but then it does all over again in a matter of days - overheats and won’t work. "Soooo, why bother when the Shark is half the price and so much better?! It dries faster, my hair has more volume and looks in better condition (honestly!). The Shark is noisier than the Dyson but it’s a hair dryer so that’s allowed! Very impressed and definitely won’t be going back to the Dyson!" A third shared: "By far the best hair dryer we've owned. Super-fast drying, easy to use controls/buttons on the back of its head (rather than switches), leaves my hair silky smooth and far less bulky than other hairdryers. Also really impressed with the roller brush attachment. It isn't just a gimmick. It really does give a professional blow dry effect, and it is my go-to instead of hair straightners now. Okay, it's not cheap, but you get what you pay for in spades, and having used a Dyson, this isn't just comparable. Like Shark's vacuums, in my opinion, it's superior and still much cheaper. Highly recommended!"  While many of Shark shoppers have had a epic results with this hairdryer, some have been left unimpressed and their hair a little deflated. One, who left the product a two star review on Amazon, said: "I was given this as a Christmas present, unfortunately it is not what I expected. I have very fine hair that doesn’t take long to dry, however after just a few weeks use on a low heat setting it keeps cutting out when using the 2 in1 concentrator. The other attachments work even on a higher heat setting so don’t understand the problem, filter kept clean using the brush but no go so I’m very disappointed in this , I wouldn’t buy again!!" Despite Shark products being one of the most popular in the hair-care (and vacuum) industry, there are a number of other brands whose hairdryers have left customers with perfect coiffed tresses. Panasonic's Advanced Folding Hair Dryer has nanoe and double mineral technology and "is designed to tackle the visible signs of hair damage such as lack of shine, frizz, dryness, dullness and split ends". It also comes with a concentrator and diffuser to boost your style and is also included in Amazon Prime Day's cost cuts, being priced for today at £110, rather than £199. As is the ghd Helios Hair Dryer, which claims to add 30% more shine to your hair (£135 down from £179).  For something a little more budget friendly, Remington's power dry D3010 - which claims to leave you with glossy, frizz free hair thanks to its ceramic ionic grill - is only £15.99 from Currys while the BaByliss Super Power 2400 Hair Dryer is £34.45 from LookFantastic. For the Shark hairdryer, see here - but be quick as  Prime Day ends tonight! 