Healthy changes start with little changes. Whether you want to lose weight, drink less alcohol, get active or quit smoking, you have access to lots of free tools and support through Better Health. You can also find simple ways to lift your mood with Every Mind Matters. There has never been a better time to kickstart your health. Let's do this! Quitting smoking is about taking the first step. Get your easy-to-follow quit plan, tips for handling cravings, and practical support. Discover the health benefits of quitting and start your smoke-free journey today. Losing weight is not about getting it right – it's about getting started. Making small, simple changes can really help you shed the pounds. Get started today with our tips, support and special offers. No matter how active you are, physical activity is good for your body and mind. Aim to be active every day, the more you do the better you'll feel. Try these tools, tips and special offers to get active and move more. Drinking less can help you feel a bit better every day – and it's easier to make a change than you think. We have some simple tips and tools to help you start cutting down today. Looking after your mind is just as important as looking after your body, but it can be easily overlooked. Every Mind Matters has lots of expert advice and practical tips to help you stay on top of your mental wellbeing. If you want to improve other aspects of your wellbeing, we have more great free tools to support you: Start finding healthier swaps today! A 12-week plan to help you lose weight. A running app for absolute beginners. Track and build up your daily walks – start with 10 minutes every day! For the days you do not want to drink alcohol. Daily support to help you quit smoking and start breathing easier. Check your body mass index (BMI). Getting a check is the only way you can find out if you have high blood pressure, as there are usually no symptoms. If you are over 30, the Heart Age Test tells you your heart age compared with your real age. Take the short test now to see how your lifestyle choices affect your heart age, and learn how to reduce your risk of cardiovascular diseases through diet and exercise. To keep bones and muscles healthy, everyone should consider taking a daily vitamin D supplement in autumn and winter, when we cannot make vitamin D from sunlight. And some people who are at risk of not getting enough vitamin D should take them all year round. Just 10 micrograms a day is all you need – it's the same for kids and grown-ups. © Crown copyright