It has been revealed that Prince Harry will be a guest speaker at a two-day summit for business leaders in the US in March, with tickets for the event costing $995 - just weeks after the release of memoir Spare Prince Harry's next move after the release of his controversial memoir Spare has been revealed.  It has been announced that he will a guest speaker at a two-day summit for business leaders in the United States, with tickets for the event costing $995. Called Uplift, it is described as a "two-day immersive summit" where attendees will "hear firsthand from renowned leaders, luminaries and researchers about how human transformation is key to building a thriving business today, and tomorrow".  It will take place in San Francisco on March 7 and 8 and Harry will be appearing in his role as Chief Impact Officer at start-up BetterUp, which is hosting the event.  He is down to be a guest speaker, although it is not clear exactly what he will be speaking about.  A programme for the event says: " Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex is a husband, father, humanitarian, military veteran, mental wellness advocate, and environmentalist."   Others appearing at the event include BetterUp's CEO Alex Robichaux and actress Issa Rae, who appeared on Meghan Markle's Spotify podcast Archetypes.  BetterUp said: "The immersive summit will feature the exchange of ideas and inspirational conversations delivering unparalleled insights for leaders around talent retention, growth and how to best enable managers to lead high-performing teams through the current climate of change and uncertainty. "The event will also explore the latest trends in AI, research around resilient workforces, the intersection of wellbeing and performance, and ultimately how to foster human transformation at scale." Harry joined BetterUp, a start-up that focuses on coaching people on their mental health to help people's performance, in March 2021. It offers custom support and services that "strengthen mental fitness," with the aim of allowing customers to "unleash personal and professional performance." The company's chief has kept his lips sealed on how much Harry is paid for his role.  But Colin Plamondon, a US-based apps investor, previously told the Mirror the royal's star appeal to clients could bring handsome compensation of £500,000 to £2million a year "at a minimum" including salary and equity.  News of his latest upcoming appearance comes just over two weeks after the release of his controversial memoir Spare.  The memoir, which hit the shelves on January 10, includes claims that his brother Prince William physically attacked him and that the King put his own interests above Harry’s.  The memoir is the fastest-selling non-fiction book in the UK since records began in 1998. According to Nielsen BookData, which collects and provides information on distribution and sales measurement of books, Harry’s headline-grabbing autobiography Spare sold 467,183 copies in its first week. Despite the memoir hitting shelves in Spain ahead of the official publication date, and a number of extracts leaking in the lead-up to the book’s UK release, Nielsen’s data suggest sales were not negatively affected. Get our daily royal round-up direct to your inbox