Home » Press Release 
BetterUp®, the human transformation company and inventor of virtual coaching, today announced the achievement of the “In Process” designation granted by the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP). This is a critical milestone on the path to achieving FedRAMP authorization, which will allow BetterUp to operate as a trusted partner to federal agencies. This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230711098492/en/ (Graphic: Business Wire) 
FedRAMP is the U.S. government program that provides a trusted and standardized approach to security and risk assessment for cloud technologies that support federal agencies. The rigorous authorization process requires an in-depth examination of BetterUp for Government’s data security and data governance capabilities, as well as the security practices of its cloud services. BetterUp has partnered with a U.S. Federal agency to obtain a FedRAMP Moderate Authorization. 
“The U.S. Federal Government has incredibly high standards for cloud technologies, which is why the FedRAMP Marketplace is the sole source for all federal agencies seeking trusted solutions,” said Rob Smith, General Manager of Government at BetterUp. “As BetterUp moves forward on the path to full FedRAMP authorization, we’re one step closer to supporting federal, state and local government teams in reaching peak performance and human transformation at meaningful scale through world-class coaching, powered by AI and behavioral science.” 
Trust and security are critical to how BetterUp operates and delivers transformational solutions for its customers. This milestone builds on the company’s existing security program, which is already in compliance with ISO 27001, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and AICPA’s Service Organization Control 2 (SOC 2) Type II reporting requirements. These certifications uniquely demonstrate BetterUp’s commitment to continuously improve its private data governance, security and compliance programs to support both private and public sector customers. 
BetterUp for Government offers 1:1 coaching and content powered by a roster of expert coaches that specialize in supporting a wide range of topics like sleep, nutrition, communication effectiveness, diversity, equity, inclusion & belonging, and more. BetterUp supports hundreds of thousands of people, driving transformational behavior change at scale and improving individuals’ mindsets and organizational outcomes at more than 600 companies, including global Fortune 1,000 enterprises like Hilton, Salesforce, Chevron and Snap Inc., and government agencies like NASA and the U.S. Air Force. 
About BetterUp 
Founded in 2013, BetterUp® is a human transformation company that drives peak performance in individuals and organizations, through unparalleled access to coaching, content and cutting-edge AI technology. With more than 2 million coaching sessions, BetterUp is the inventor of virtual coaching and the largest mental health and coaching startup in the world, with the world’s largest network of over 3,000 Coaches offering support in 64 languages across over 70 countries. Trusted by more than 600 organizations including NASA, U.S. Air Force, Federal Aviation Administration, Google, Salesforce, Hilton, Warner Media and other leading Fortune 1,000 companies, BetterUp delivers on three key impact areas – Mental Fitness, career & leadership development, and social connection – inspiring people everywhere to live with greater clarity, purpose, and passion. BetterUp is available to the Public Sector through a partnership with Carahsoft. BetterUp’s Science Board is composed of leading researchers in the fields of positive psychology and human performance including Martin Seligman, Adam Grant, Shawn Achor, and Quinetta Roberson. BetterUp is a Workday Design Badge recipient and has been recognized in the Inc. 5000, Fortune’s Great Places to Work, People Magazine’s Companies that Care, and Fast Company’s Best Workplaces for Innovators. To learn more, visit www.betterup.com.  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230711098492/en/