Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online.  Prince Harry has recently been photographed with a thick, dark head of hair, in a stark contrast to his usual thinning barnet. His profile of a new mental health tech start-up he is involved in shows how things could be…  By Prince Harry has been busy promoting a new mental health tech start-up - while inadvertently showing off his thicker-than-usual red locks.  The  Duke of Sussex  typically has  thinning hair  at the top of his head, but a photograph published on his profile page on the company page of the start-up shows thick and dark locks. Pictures from a week earlier - while he played polo in Singapore - showed his  hair  usually looks much thinner.    Harry , now 38, took on the role of Chief Impact Officer at BetterUp in 2021, when he announced he aimed to “help create impact in  people’s lives  ”. The tech company uses “world-class coaching and science” to help provide the “mindsets, skills, and behaviours your workforce needs to be ready for any challenge”.   Hair was a hot topic for Harry at the beginning of this year after he described  Prince William’s  hair loss as “alarming” in his controversial autobiography, Spare. Despite the two-year age gap, William’s hair loss was “more advanced than mine”, he claimed.  In 2021 Dr Asim Shahmalak, a leading cosmetic surgeon from the UK, claimed Harry’s hair loss had accelerated since he moved to the states with Meghan - and predicted baldness by the age of 50. But he also said Harry is balding slower than Prince WIlliam, and is a strong ten years behind his older brother in terms of hair loss. At 36 years old, Harry’s head of hair was as thick as William’s at 26 years old, Dr Shahmalak stated. He said: “The baldness gene is not as strong in Harry but he is still losing his hair quickly. At present most of Harry's hair loss is around the crown area. “He has a growing bald patch right across his crown and you can also see that his hair is also thinning out towards the front. Without treatment, the acceleration we have seen over the last 15 months will only increase over the next year. Harry may never be as bald as his brother William. William has been more affected than any of the royal men.”  Another hair stylist also suggested Harry’s hair was notably thinner the same year - compared to how he looked on the Time 100 cover with Meghan Markle, where “clever retouching skills” had given him a thick head of hair.  Read more Lionness Alessia Russo shares how music is important for her pre-match ritual with Beats Get our daily royal round-up direct to your inbox