The Duke of Sussex Prince Harry will give his first public speech since the release of his bestselling memoir, Spare, at the upcoming Uplift summit in San Francisco, California. The two-day event is hosted by coaching platform BetterUp and will take place on March 7 and 8. It will, of course, feature Prince Harry as a speaker who will discuss “how human transformation is key to building a thriving business today and tomorrow.” However, the event has an outrageous ask. Attending the event in person will come with a hefty price tag, as tickets are currently on sale for $995, NY Post reports. But those who are unable to afford the cost will still have the opportunity to hear Prince Harry’s speech, as “selected” sessions from the conference will be streamed online for free. It is not announced when Prince Harry will speak exactly. Event organizers have said that they are expecting a warm welcome for the Duke, who serves as Chief Impact Officer on BetterUp’s leadership team. Prince Harry’s company profile on BetterUp says that he as a co-founder of Archewell, aims to promote change across all communities through non-profit work and creative efforts. The mission of Archewell, which includes Archewell Foundation, Archewell Productions, and Archewell Audio, is based on the belief that compassion is crucial in shaping the culture of the 21st century. The Uplift summit will also feature a diverse lineup of speakers including Emmy and Golden Globe nominated actress, writer and producer Issa Rae, New York Times Best-Selling author Robin Arzón, and Quinetta Roberson, a professor of management and psychology at Michigan State University. In the past month, Prince Harry has been making headlines for the release of his book, Spare, which has become the fastest-selling nonfiction book in history. He has also been making appearances on talk shows to promote the book and discuss the themes and revelations it has. 
 We bring you the Latest updates & news articles about Fashion & Music from UK.  © 2020 Brit Pop News - All Rights Reserved  © 2020 Brit Pop News - All Rights Reserved Login to your account below 

 

 



 Fill the forms bellow to register 

 

 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



