
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? An affiliate of Michigan retail real estate investment firm, Agree Realty Corp. purchased the location of a BJ’s Wholesale Club at 26 Whittier St. in Framingham for $28 million. Agree Limited Partnership purchased the 114,000-square-foot retail property from an affiliate of Illinois-based Inland Real Estate Group in a transaction recorded by the Middlesex South Registry of Deeds on Wednesday. Inland Real Estate Group last purchased the property in 2014 for $26.5 million. Agree Realty is a real estate investment trust specializing in owning properties leased to large chain retail stores. The company’s stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The company reported $463 million in revenue in 2022.  In Central Massachusetts, Agree owns property leased to retailers Best Buy in Leominster and to Lowe’s Home Improvement in Worcester. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy