Actor Manoj Bajapyee has given some powerful performances over the years and collaborated with several powerhouse performers in various projects. However, the National award-winning actor is in awe of some co-stars who amaze him every time they work together. For Manoj, one such name is actor Vijay Raaz, with whom he worked in 2016 film Saat Uchakkey and while he is in awe of the latter’s acting talent, he hasn’t forgotten the controversial abusive video the actors did for the film’s promotion for which they still get trolled. In their defence, Manoj said that they were fooled into making that video by the film’s marketing team. In an interview with Samdish, Manoj said that Vijay’s performance is so powerful that it becomes difficult for a co-star to keep up with him. Manoj said, “Uske saath scene karo to samajh hi nahi aata ki leke kahan jayega. Agla line, aapka imagination jo bhi hai, aap humesha surprise hoge. Aapki apni performance sankat mein aa jati hai. Wo aadmi aisa hai. Doosra jo aadmi aisa hai wo hai Gajraj Rao. Gajraj Rao ke saath mein aap kabhi bhi easy nahi ho sakte. Ye log kuch alag dhang se kaam karte hai (If you do a scene with him, you never know where he will take it. Whatever your imagination is, Vijay will always surprise you. Your performance is in danger. Another person like that is Gajraj Rao and you can never take it easy with him. These people work differently. Manoj recalls the controversial promotional video he and Vijay had done for Saat Uchakkey and reveals that he still gets trolled for the abuses he and Vijay used in that video. He also says that they were promised the video would be taken down but it never hapened. “Maine uske saath Saat Uchakkey ki thi, to hum log promotion kar rahe the. To marketing walo ne kahan ki hum gaaliyo pe banayenge. To Vijay Raaz ne kahan ki ‘main nahi karta’, to marketing waalo ne convince kiya. Aur hum bewakuf, humne kar diya (I did Saat Uchakkey with him and we were promoting the film when the marketing people said that we will make a video with abuses it it. Initially Vijay refused but they convinced and us and we were naive enough to do it),” Manoj said. Manoj, who was recently seen in the film Bandaa added, “Abhi jo kuch log keh rahe hai ki gaaliyan nahi honi chahiye films mein, humein troll karte hai. Unko pata nahi hai ki humein bewakoof bana ke kiya gaya tha, ki hum 2 din mein hata denge, aur wo hatana bhool gaye aur wo cheez 11 saal pehle ki cheez hai and aajtak kuch log jo hai usko viral kar rahe hote hai, kuch log gaali de rahe hote hai (Today there are some people who feel there should be no abuses in films. They troll us. They don’t know that we were fooled into making that video. We were told that they would remove the video in 2 days but forgot to do that. It happened 11 years back and still some people make that video viral and abuse us).” Manoj will next be seen in the third season of his famous web series The Family Man. The shooting is expected to begin at the end of this year. Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express. BJP suspends Bardoli taluka panchayat vice-president Bipinchandra Chaudhary for six years due to "anti-party activities". Chaudhary lost the Sumul Dairy bypolls to BJP leader Jitendra Patel by 20 votes. BJP leaders tried to convince him to withdraw his nomination, but he refused. A no confidence motion was passed against him and he has been removed from his post.  