Smart trailers, the internet of things, cloud computing, APIs … if this all makes your head swim, this episode of HDT Leadership Insights explores how these technologies can come together to help fleet managers effectively use the reams of data available to them today. This episode of HDT's Leadership Insights video podcast is sponsored by, and produced in partnership with, Clarience Technologies.  Deborah Lockridge, editor in chief of Heavy Duty Trucking, talks to Nada Jiddou, executive vice president of Clarience Technologies and general manager of Road Ready, about: Read More:  New Connectivity Platform Takes Road Ready Beyond Smart Trailers Can Smart Trailers Improve Driver Retention? 
                Comments are moderated and may not appear for 24 hours or more. Comments that include personal
                attacks or slurs, hate speech, demonstrably false information, excessive profanity, or that are thinly veiled promotions for a product, will not be approved.
              See all comments 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         Serving Car & Truck Fleet Management Professionals Serving Small Fleet Owners & Managers Serving EV Intenders & Professionals In Commercial & Public Fleets Serving Public Sector Fleet Professionals Serving Medium & Heavy Duty Commercial Truck Professionals Serving Transit Bus, Private Motorcoach, & Passenger Rail Professionals Serving School & Pupil Transportation Fleet Professionals Serving Vocational & Service Fleet Professionals 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         
            The secure and easy all-access connection to your content.
            Bookmarked content can then be accessed anytime on all of your logged in devices!
         Already a member? Log In