The company's Original collection uses Eastman Tritan Renew material, which contains 50% certified recycled content. Dutch reusable bottle company Dopper has achieved Cradle to Cradle Gold certification for its Original reusable bottle collection. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The certification makes the Dopper Original the company’s most sustainable reusable water bottle collection. Dopper Original is produced using Eastman Tritan Renew material, which contains 50% certified recycled content. Eastman developed Tritan Renew using molecular recycling technology, which breaks down hard-to-recycle plastic waste into fundamental building blocks that can be used again in manufacturing. Biobased polypropylene is used to produce the remaining portion of the bottle, including the container and the cap. Dopper said the bottles are manufactured at facilities powered by 100% renewable energy. According to Eastman, the Original collection integrates the classic bottle design with components such as a lid that can be turned upside down to become a drinking cup. Eastman speciality plastics commercial director Glenn Goldman said: “It is exciting to see Dopper’s commitment to sustainability be realised with the Cradle to Cradle Gold certification for the Dopper Original bottle featuring Tritan Renew. “Eastman is proud to be part of the solution to empower forward-looking brands like Dopper to make material changes now that lay the groundwork for a better future.” The Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute granted the certification following an assessment of Dopper Original bottles across five categories. These were material health, product circularity, clean air and climate protection, water and soil stewardship and social fairness. Dopper CEO Virginia Yanquilevich said: “With the new Dopper Original collection, we show the industry what’s already possible: a bottle collection with a zero-carbon footprint, made of 85% upcycled materials, produced in a factory that runs on 100% renewable energy and more. “The Cradle to Cradle Gold certification shows the world that we can — and must — make sustainable choices in every part of the production process, hopefully inspiring others to follow.” Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Inside Packaging : Packaging Gateway Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the packaging industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024