Sign up for our daily newsletter If you buy through a BGR link, we may earn an affiliate commission, helping support our expert product labs. Netflix, like the rest of us, is preparing to turn the page on 2022 and say goodbye to another year of streaming supremacy. Before we move into 2023, though, we still have a few more days of new Netflix releases to enjoy, including shows like The Circle as well as the film White Noise — the final remaining Netflix original movie hitting the streamer between now and New Year’s Eve.  
Below, we’ve included the rundown of Netflix’s new releases that will debut on the service each day through the end of this week. Just a few days left to go, and then it’s on to a new year that will include new seasons of Stranger Things, Bridgerton, The Witcher, and much more. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TCOZMsLYqsU










 
If you need more ideas for what to watch than the Netflix new releases above, you can also check out our curated weekend guide of new titles that debuted in recent days. We’ve also already prepared a snapshot of what’s coming to Netflix starting in January, so you can get a jump on deciding what forthcoming new releases you’d like to add to your watch list. Sign up for the most interesting tech & entertainment news out there.        By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use and have reviewed the Privacy Notice.   Andy Meek is a reporter based in Memphis who has covered media, entertainment, and culture for over 20 years. His work has appeared in outlets including The Guardian, Forbes, and The Financial Times, and he’s written for BGR since 2015. Andy's coverage includes technology and entertainment, and he has a particular interest in all things streaming. Over the years, he’s interviewed legendary figures in entertainment and tech that range from Stan Lee to John McAfee, Peter Thiel, and Reed Hastings. Sign up for the most interesting tech & entertainment news out there. By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use and have reviewed the Privacy Notice. BGR’s audience craves our industry-leading insights on the latest in tech and entertainment, as well as our authoritative and expansive reviews. We guide our loyal readers to some of the best products, latest trends, and most engaging stories with non-stop coverage, available across all major news platforms. Founded in 2006 Over 2 billion visitors 100K+ articles published Millions of readers helped 
						Honest news coverage, reviews, and opinions since 2006. -
						Jonathan S. Geller, Founder BGR is a part of Penske Media Corporation.
© 2024 BGR Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.