Advertisement Advertisement Beosin recently announced its strategic partnership with Cobo. The blockchain security firm will see Cobo leverage Beosin KYT. The collaboration will result in the parties tackling Beosin’s compliance and security challenges. Beosin KYT, the virtual asset AML and analysis platform, will be a crucial part of the partnership. Cobo is one of the market’s most well-known digital asset custody solution providers. It is the first omni-custody platform covering a wide spectrum of wallets. Due to its wide range of services, some of the best crypto wallets use it. Advertisement It assists custodial and non-custodial wallets, smart contract and MPC wallets, along with wallet-as-a-service and off-exchange settlement network wallets. The platform is trusted by 500+ global institutions with billions in assets under custody. On the other hand, Beosin is a leading blockchain security company with an expansive blockchain security portfolio. It provides various tools and services, such as stolen digital asset recovery, pre-launch code security audits, alerts and blocks, KYT/AML, live security risk monitoring, etc. Beosin KYT is a premium product by the company that is powered by its advanced AI and big data analytics technology. It helps platforms identify suspicious transactions, make risk assessments, and identify on-chain relationship risks. The partnership with Cobo shows Beosin’s commitment to enhancing its compliance and security. After the partnership, Cobo will use Beosin KYT for several use cases, such as on-chain fund tracing, STR report generation, malicious address search, and address transaction risk scoring.  Advertisement This strategic collaboration will help digital asset service providers access comprehensive compliance solutions to address compliance challenges. Beosin KYT’s potent capabilities and Cobo’s digital asset custody expertise and market presence will yield positive results in the compliance development of the blockchain industry.  Advertisement 