NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT You’d be forgiven for thinking that Chloe Drew-Batty’s song, 16, was your usual teen angst. But listen to the lyrics and something far darker lies beneath the melody. ‘I keep hoping this is all a dream/And I keep hoping that someone will hear my screams,’ wrote Chloe two years ago, aged 16. Words framed from a teenager isolated by lockdown? Worse, these are lyrics from a child facing her second round of gruelling chemotherapy and tackling a double whammy of Covid isolation and cancer. Now, two years later and with the release of her first album, Chloe, 18, is on the brink of possible stardom. Cancer, she believes, gave her the confidence to sing out.  ‘Before I was ill, I used to be quite timid and shy,’ she says. ‘I’d written songs but I was too scared to show anyone my lyrics and I was too terrified to sing out loud. It sounds like a cliché but my diagnosis made me realise that life really is too short. My confidence has sky-rocketed.’ It was different in March 2020, when Chloe was in lockdown with her music-teacher parents, Fran and William. She says: ‘I was studying for my GCSEs and a month into lockdown I discovered a lump on my collarbone. ‘I went to the GP and was told it was probably nothing. I tested positive for glandular fever, so thought it must be because of that.’  In June, with the lump still evident, Chloe was referred for a biopsy. ‘We didn’t hear anything for two weeks and I remember my parents ringing the hospital,’ she says. ‘A nurse said, “If you’ve not heard anything, it’s probably fine.” So when we returned at the end of the fortnight, I walked into the room with my mum and dad thinking, “It’s probably a cyst”. It wasn’t and being told I had cancer was a very surreal experience. I was diagnosed with Hodgkin lymphoma, stage two, but didn’t know what that meant.’ The Teenage Cancer Trust provided Chloe with some much-needed reassurance after her mum showed her its website. ‘There were stories from other young people who’d had cancer and who were well again and I can’t stress how important that was to me.’ It was ‘daunting’ to find herself in Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge for the start of four cycles of chemotherapy in August. ‘It’s such a large place and overwhelming,’ Chloe, who lives in Bungay, Suffolk, recalls. But, again, the Teenage Cancer Trust provided a haven.  ‘You could hang out with other young people, which is really useful when you are being pumped full of toxic chemicals. Yes, it was scary when I saw the others on the ward with no hair but I didn’t walk away feeling scared.’ Chloe physically returned to school in March, 2021, and her treatment ended with three weeks of radiotherapy in May.A clear scan a few months later led to the all-clear in August. ‘I was working at my holiday job when I got the phone call andchopping onions, so already had tears in my eyes. But when I got home, I burst into tears,’ she says.  Chloe studies at BIMM music institute in Brighton and her band Pearll have released their first album – the girl too shy to perform is now singing out. And when the Teenage Cancer Trust holds its concert at the Royal Albert Hall this month, Chloe will go backstage and hopes to meet charity supporter and her idol, Roger Daltrey. Sharon Osbourne makes bold statement at Taylor Swift's Wembley concert Indie icons charging £30 for their gigs because ‘nobody has money anymore’ I'm a Taylor Swift fan - but I'm starting to think she's exploiting us Taylor Swift makes change to Wembley Eras shows after terror plot ‘Music became a way to channel my anxiety throughout my treatment,’ she says. ‘There are songs I wrote I’ll always link to my experience of cancer, a reminder of what I faced, and how I was helped.’ Emboldened by her battles – this future star has finally found her voice. Run clubs have become our new nightclubs – here’s why Teenage Cancer Trust gigs are at the Royal Albert Hall from Mar 20-26, Tickets at teenagecancertrust.org. See Instagram @pearll.music 

	MORE : The Big Happiness Interview: Pete Cohen on how to build a happier future

 

	MORE : Why you could be suffering from ‘junk sleep’ – and how to tackle it


 Sign up to our guide to what’s on in London, trusted reviews, brilliant offers and competitions. London’s best bits in your inbox By ticking this box, you confirm you are over the age of 18*. Privacy Policy »  Get us in your feed