
  A YOUNG artist who has appeared in Bridgerton has released a new music video featuring northern Powys and the surrounding area.
 
  Julius Eastwood, 27, is a singer-songwriter from Trefonen, and he released his new music video ‘Borderlines’ yesterday with snapshots of many historic local sites including the Lake Vyrnwy, Llanrhaedr Waterfall as well as Old Oswestry Racecourse in Shropshire.
 
  The singer has been working with local director Julia Pentz to bring his vision to life.
 
OTHER NEWS:
 
  He said: “Julia reached out to me to collaborate on this project – and she has a lot of knowledge of the beautiful spots in the area so it worked out great.
 
  “Since it came out I have been really busy and it’s been going really well, I am really happy.”
 
  Julius’ music passion started with his parents, as he explained that he was always surrounded by it growing up.
 
  “My dad is really musical and so is my mum” he added “We always had records playing around the house.”
 
  The songwriter started composing his own songs from his love for poetry.
 
  “I just wanted to combine the two, and it worked” Julius continued. “And I really wanted to highlight the local area, its importance and its rich history.”
 

 
  Described by BBC Presenter Michaela Wylde as a ‘gorgeous tune’, ‘Borderlines’ amassed over 2,000 streams in its first two weeks on Spotify and has been played by BBC Radio in Shropshire and Hereford.
 
  In the song Julius explores his life growing up and the places that he loves, and how they shaped him into who he is today.
 
  Julius’ work has been compared to artists such as Rufus Wainwright, Declan McKenna and Nick Cave.
 
  The artist has studied at BIMM University in London, where his debut single ‘Westminster’s on Fire’ was selected as Track of the Week across all BIMM Universities and featured as an ‘Artist to Watch’.
 

 
  Although Julius studied song writing he is also always filming and acting, and in a fortunate turn of event he had the opportunity to play the trumpet in season two of Netflix’s Bridgerton.
 
  Now the artist is planning to release a new EP in June, called ‘Vision’ featuring three songs with more electronic influences.
 
  He hopes to have this out in June of this year.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.