The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced that it has reduced the total amount of time the public spends accessing DHS services by 20 million hours annually, a goal set by Secretary Alejandro N. Mayorkas in 2022 to build a more equitable and accessible experience for DHS customers.  Following President Biden’s Executive Order 14058 “Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government,” Secretary Mayorkas established the DHS Burden Reduction Initiative (BRI) to remove administrative barriers, increase equity, build trust, and strengthen security. As the Department that interacts more frequently on a daily basis with the American public than any other federal agency or department, the achievement announced today will have a tremendous impact on the safety, security, and well-being of residents across the country. “Improving the customer experience is one of the Department’s top priorities. Through the tremendous talent and dedication of our personnel, we have made great strides in doing so,” said Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas. “There is much more work to be done. We will continue to find new ways to modernize services and harness technology to improve efficiency, equity, and accessibility in everything that we do.” The Department reached this milestone by simplifying online paperwork processes, including through the use of automatic renewals and short forms; enabling online submission of forms, where appropriate; and pre-populating forms and reusing data where applicable. Initiatives that have contributed to DHS reaching the burden reduction milestone include: The Department will continue to take proactive steps to ensure the public can efficiently access the services and programs it offers, including by increasing transparency and accessibility through policy and regulatory changes, and improving the digital experience for DHS customers. The Department continues to actively recruit for roles in customer experience, product management, design, software engineering, and data science at multiple levels. To learn more, visit DHS.gov/Join-DHS-CX-Team. To learn more about the Department’s progress to improve customer experience, please visit the DHS CX portal or contact [email protected]. Read more at DHS Log in to leave a comment 
POWERED BY MHA Visuals