
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Mid-East.Info)   Ben Zhou, co-founder and CEO of Bybit, the world's third most visited crypto exchange, has taken to the stage at Token2049 to offer a world-class gateway to the crypto market for institutions and retail investors.
Speaking on the main stage at Token2049, the world's premier crypto event in Singapore, Zhou spoke about his vision for the future of crypto exchanges.“Our job is not to create the next killer app or digital asset; we're building roads and charging a small fee to provide extremely efficient and usable access to the crypto market. Right now, I don't see these services being offered elsewhere.”

Speaking about decentralized finance (DeFi), Zhou said Bybit's products make DeFi simple to use.“We love DeFi and we want to bring people to Defi, but using blockchain wallets is still scary for many people. So we're determined to educate the public and build products for beginners, to bring them the yield of ETH staking, or real world assets like on-chain US Treasuries.”
Bybit has increased its market share considerably during the bear market and is one of the top three exchanges across many metrics, including trustworthiness as measured by CoinGecko. 
The crypto exchange market is extremely competitive and Zhou said that he is happy with Bybit's stellar performance in recent years.
“We don't want anything bad to happen to Binance,” Zhou said.“We want strong competition to inspire us to provide the best products, especially in the institutional space, and offering yields that beat traditional financial products.” 
Bybit is a cryptocurrency exchange established in 2018 that offers a professional platform where crypto traders can find an ultra-fast matching engine, excellent customer service and multilingual community support. Bybit is a proud partner of Formula One's reigning Constructors' and Drivers' champions, the Oracle Red Bull Racing team, esports teams NAVI, Astralis, Alliance, Made in Brazil (MIBR), and Oracle Red Bull Racing Esports. MENAFN21092023005446012082ID1107090561  Ben Zhou, co-founder and CEO of Bybit, the world's third most visited crypto exchange, has taken to the stage at Token2049 to offer a world-class gateway to the crypto market for institutions and retail investors. Speaking on the main stage at Token2049, the world's premier crypto event in Singapore, Zhou spoke about his vision for the future of crypto exchanges.“Our job is not to create the next killer app or digital asset; we're building roads and charging a small fee to provide extremely efficient and usable access to the crypto market. Right now, I don't see these services being offered elsewhere.”
 Speaking about decentralized finance (DeFi), Zhou said Bybit's products make DeFi simple to use.“We love DeFi and we want to bring people to Defi, but using blockchain wallets is still scary for many people. So we're determined to educate the public and build products for beginners, to bring them the yield of ETH staking, or real world assets like on-chain US Treasuries.” Bybit has increased its market share considerably during the bear market and is one of the top three exchanges across many metrics, including trustworthiness as measured by CoinGecko.  The crypto exchange market is extremely competitive and Zhou said that he is happy with Bybit's stellar performance in recent years. “We don't want anything bad to happen to Binance,” Zhou said.“We want strong competition to inspire us to provide the best products, especially in the institutional space, and offering yields that beat traditional financial products.”  MENAFN21092023005446012082ID1107090561 MENAFN21092023005446012082ID1107090561 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN