James Whatley of Mary Kay [Photo: Mary Kay] James Whatley has been appointed as chief information officer of Addison-based beauty and entrepreneurship company Mary Kay Inc. In this new role, the company said Whatley will champion its digital innovation efforts, including revolutionizing Mary Kay Independent Beauty Consultants’ ability to unleash their full potential through tools and technology. “Through the development of digital technology, tools, and applications, we’re improving not only the experience for the independent sales force, but for their customers around the world,” Mary Kay Chief Operating Officer Deborah Gibbins said in a statement. “James is a change champion. He understands how to equip the independent sales force to compete—and provide exceptional service—in our always-on, always-connected world. We’re excited to see how his passion for innovation will transform our digital strategy moving forward.” Whatley has been with Mary Kay for 25 years and has played a key role in designing systems that ensure an independent beauty consultant can run her business anytime, anywhere. That includes the development of iconic Mary Kay digital properties such as MaryKay.com, Mary Kay InTouch (a digital portal used by the independent sales force), online ordering, and the independent sales force’s personal business websites. One of the largest direct sellers in the world, Mary Kay said it processes millions of orders through its commerce sites. “I’m motivated first and foremost by finding solutions for the sales force,” Whatley said in a statement. “At the same time, I want to create environments that foster teamwork, trust, and strong partnerships amongst the company’s global partners. Our founder, Mary Kay Ash, once said, ‘Standing still is the same thing as moving backward.’ I agree with her, and it’s a philosophy I take with me to work every day.” Mary Kay Inc. is a multibillion-dollar company with millions of independent sales force members in more than 35 countries.  Last month, Mary Kay Inc. appointed Sheryl Adkins-Green as its new Chief Experience Officer.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   In this week’s roundup of hires, promotions, and accolades in North Texas, you’ll also find news from Allied Electronics & Automation, Cooksey Communications, Stream Data Centers, NexBank, McKissack & McKissack, Zirtue, and more. Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Supreme Lending announced it has appointed Baiju Thakkar chief information officer of the Dallas-based full-service mortgage lender. Thakkar brings nearly 25 years of IT leadership, knowledge, and experience to the role, in which he will be instrumental in developing, engineering, and implementing innovative, efficient technology initiatives to support the company's growth. Supreme Lending said that Thakkar is passionate about delivering meaningful change through effective partnerships and will provide impactful leadership the company’s IT team to ensure security, quality, and stability. "I've inherited an excellent IT Team, and I am excited to get to know all of them individually and grow… Girls Inc. of Metropolitan Dallas is expanding its impact in helping girls dream big and learn skills for life-long success with help from Capital One. Dallas-based Primoris Services Corp. has appointed Chad Haxton as chief information officer, a role in which he will continue to drive the company's digital transformation via innovation and tech implementations. “As the specialty services and construction industries break new ground through the adoption of emerging technologies, Chad’s clear vision and leadership enable us to best serve our clients, employees, and partners,” Primoris President and CEO Tom McCormick said in a statement. “We remain committed to investing in solutions that align with our growth objectives, and Chad’s strategic direction, depth of knowledge, and forward-looking lens add integral value to our operations… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.