FN Media Group Presents USA News Group News Commentary VANCOUVER, B.C., March 15, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- March 15, 2023 - USA News Group - According to a 2022 study of more than 6 million patients 65 and older, the risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease increases by 50-80% in older adults who caught COVID-19. With Statista stating nearly 11.5 million COVID-19 cases of people over 65 years old as of November 23, 2022, and the Alzheimer's Association forecasting global dementia cases to triple by 2050, society is about to get hit with a tsunami of this devastating disease. Thankfully the biotech sector is working diligently to try and combat this coming onslaught of Alzheimer's and dementia, through new diagnostic methods and treatments, including work from companies such as Marvel Biosciences Corp. (TSXV:MRVL), Biogen Inc. (NASDAQ:BIIB), Prothena Corporation plc (NASDAQ:PRTA), Intra-Cellular Therapies (NASDAQ:ITCI), and Roche Holding AG (OTC:RHHBY). In the case of Marvel Biosciences Corp. (TSXV:MRVL), the biotech company is moving forward with its lead asset MB-204 in targeting Alzheimer's and depression. MB-204 is a novel fluorinated derivative of Istradefylline, the only clinically approved adenosine A2a receptor antagonist used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Both Istradefylline and MB-204 are highly active derivatives of caffeine, the most widely consumed psychoactive drug in the world. Caffeine consumption has been associated with a reduced risk for developing Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and improving mood and concentration. Through Marvel Biotechnology, its wholly-owned subsidiary, Marvel BioSciences initiated its 7-day dose-ranging, toxicology study, using rats, for MB-204, marking a vital step in preparation to initiate FDA Phase I human clinical trials. "We have significantly de-risked the development of our lead drug candidate MB-204 and have a strong understanding of its safety and risk profile, as we have redeveloped this candidate from an existing FDA-approved drug Istradefylline," said Rod Matheson, CEO of Marvel Biosciences. "We are on time and on budget to enter FDA Phase I human trials by early 2023. MB-204 will be highly disruptive to the existing market and, we believe, will be a welcomed therapy for patients who suffer from Alzheimer's Disease and Depression. Our studies, as noted in previous press releases, have been extremely encouraging and we look forward to introducing a novel product that we have full commercial rights to for a very large and growing market that is in real need of a new and effective approach to treatment." After completing the maximum tolerated single dose studies, the FDA requires another short study before entering the industry standard Good Lab Practice toxicology studies. This type of study requires toxicology studies in two species, typically rats and dogs, to test the safety of new drugs before being able to run trials on humans. "This is the final milestone experiment we need to execute in order to identify the optimal doses for our upcoming 4-week GLP rat study, which in combination with our dog studies, will allow us to start human clinical testing of MB-204," said Dr. Mark Williams, Chief Science Officer of Marvel BioSciences. "We are commencing the dog dose ranging study shortly and will update the market on our progress shortly thereafter." Through partners Eisai Co., biotech company Biogen Inc. (NASDAQ:BIIB) recently announced the full results from a Phase 3 Confirmatory Clarity Ad Study of Lecanemab for the treatment of Early Alzheimer's Disease. Lecanemab is an investigational anti-amyloid beta (Aß) protofibril antibody for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild AD (collectively known as early AD) with confirmed presence of amyloid pathology in the brain. What the closely watched trial showed was a slowing of cognitive decline, however also may carry a risk of serious side effects for certain patients, including bleeding in the brain. "All of these amyloid-lowering drugs carry a risk for increased brain hemorrhage," said Dr. Ronald Petersen of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. "I think the primary outcomes, the secondary outcomes, the amyloid-lowering is pretty impressive." Prothena Corporation plc (NASDAQ:PRTA) is currently testing an amyloid-targeting shot, which RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Abrahams says "from a profile standpoint (Prothena's drug) is significantly more potent." Prothena's Alzheimer's disease portfolio spans next generation antibody immunotherapy, small molecule and vaccine approaches, geared toward building upon first generation treatments to advance the treatment paradigm. The company has initiated a Phase 1 study of PRX012, a potential best-in-class, next-generation anti-amyloid beta (Aß) antibody under investigation for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Back in April, PRX012 was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA. "With its substantially higher binding strength that allows for simple subcutaneous administration, PRX012 is positioned to potentially lead a paradigm shift in Alzheimer's treatment," said
					Gene Kinney, CEO of Prothena. Dealing with the behavioral disturbances associated with dementia and Alzheimer's Disease is a goal for Intra-Cellular Therapies (NASDAQ:ITCI). One of the company's ongoing programs is its ITI-1284-ODT-SL program, which is a deuterated form of lumateperone. Intra-Cellular expects to commence clinical conduct in Phase 2 clinical trials in agitation in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, in dementia-related psychosis and certain depressive disorders in the elderly in 2023. However, ITI- 1284 is still an investigational agent and has not been approved for use for any indication. A Phase 1 program found that ITI-1284 ODT-SL was rapidly absorbed into the systemic circulation, was metabolically stable, and resulted in high systemic exposure. "We are excited about our late-stage lumateperone programs in depressive disorders and the advancement of a long-acting injectable formulation into clinical trials as well as further expanding our pipeline with ITI-1284," said
					Sharon Mates, PhD, Chairman and CEO of Intra-Cellular Therapies. Helping to diagnose Alzheimer's disease more accurately and in a more timely fashion, Roche Holding AG (OTC:RHHBY) received FDA clearance for its Elecsys Alzeheimer's disease (AD) CSF assays. Currently, the diagnosis of Alzheimer's is a diagnosis of exclusion, largely based on various cognitive tests, routine laboratory tests and structural imaging (MRI or CT scan).  Clinical criteria are currently limited and lead to an accurate diagnosis in only 70-80% of cases, whereas the Elecsys AD CSF assays achieve 90% concordance with the Amyloid PET scan imaging, and have the potential to provide a more affordable and accessible routine option to confirm the presence of amyloid in the brain. "Globally, up to 75% of people living with Alzheimer's disease have not been diagnosed, and those who have, often report a long and complicated process," said Thomas Schinecker, CEO of Roche Diagnostics. "The Elecsys AD CSF assays have the potential to guide more people with suspected Alzheimer's disease towards a diagnosis than ever before. As we are starting to see exciting results for new potential Alzheimer's treatments, reliable tests that have been clinically validated will be critical in ensuring the right patients are identified and able to benefit from them." For more information please visit:https://usanewsgroup.com/2022/12/05/the-art-of-repurposing-safe-off-patent-drugs-for-more-profitable-diseases/  DISCLAIMER: Nothing in this publication should be considered as personalized financial advice. We are not licensed under securities laws to address your particular financial situation. No communication by our employees to you should be deemed as personalized financial advice. Please consult a licensed financial advisor before making any investment decision. This is a paid advertisement and is neither an offer nor recommendation to buy or sell any security. We hold no investment licenses and are thus neither licensed nor qualified to provide investment advice. The content in this report or email is not provided to any individual with a view toward their individual circumstances. USA News Group is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Market IQ Media Group, Inc. ("MIQ"). MIQ has been paid a fee for Marvel Biosciences Corp. advertising and digital media from USA News Group ("the Company"). There may be 3rd parties who may have shares of Marvel Biosciences Corp., and may liquidate their shares which could have a negative effect on the price of the stock. This compensation constitutes a conflict of interest as to our ability to remain objective in our communication regarding the profiled company. Because of this conflict, individuals are strongly encouraged to not use this publication as the basis for any investment decision. The owner/operator of MIQ own shares of Marvel Biosciences Corp., which were purchased as a part of a private placement. MIQ reserves the right to buy and sell shares of Marvel Biosciences Corp.at any time thereafter without any further notice. We also expect further compensation as an ongoing digital media effort to increase visibility for the company, no further notice will be given, but let this disclaimer serve as notice that all material disseminated by MIQ has been approved by the above mentioned company; this is a paid advertisement, and we own shares of the mentioned company that we will sell, and we also reserve the right to buy shares of the company in the open market, or through further private placements and/or investment vehicles. While all information is believed to be reliable, it is not guaranteed by us to be accurate. Individuals should assume that all information contained in our newsletter is not trustworthy unless verified by their own independent research. Also, because events and circumstances frequently do not occur as expected, there will likely be differences between any predictions and actual results. Always consult a licensed investment professional before making any investment decision. Be extremely careful, investing in securities carries a high degree of risk; you may likely lose some or all of the investment. USA News Group is Source of all content listed above. FN Media Group, LLC (FNM), is a third party publisher and news dissemination service provider, which disseminates electronic information through multiple online media channels. FNM is NOT affiliated in any manner with USA News Group or any company mentioned herein.  The commentary, views and opinions expressed in this release by USA News Group are solely those of USA News Group and are not shared by and do not reflect in any manner the views or opinions of FNM. FNM is not liable for any investment decisions by its readers or subscribers. FNM and its affiliated companies are a news dissemination and financial marketing solutions provider and are NOT a registered broker/dealer/analyst/adviser, holds no investment licenses and may NOT sell, offer to sell or offer to buy any security. FNM was not compensated by any public company mentioned herein to disseminate this press release. This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. "Forward-looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or strategies and are generally preceded by words such as "may", "future", "plan" or "planned", "will" or "should", "expected," "anticipates", "draft", "eventually" or "projected". You are cautioned that such statements are subject to a multitude of risks and uncertainties that could cause future circumstances, events, or results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, including the risks that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, and other risks identified in a company's annual report on Form 10-K or 10-KSB and other filings made by such company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements included herein, and not place undue reliance on such statements. The forward-looking statements in this release are made as of the date hereof and FNM undertakes no obligation to update such statements. Media Contact Information:FN Media Group, LLCMedia Contact e-mail:editor@financialnewsmedia.com U.S. Phone: +1(954)345-0611  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/biotech-sector-working-fast-to-combat-alzheimers-disease-cases-that-are-set-to-explode-301772680.html