LAKEWOOD RANCH, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--accūrō Solutions, which manages medical bill review and payment processes for payers in the property and casualty industry, has acquired Splashlight Solutions, a national workers’ compensation bill review service provider based in West Des Moines, Iowa. The purchase price was not disclosed.

  
“The acquisition brings us additional proven resources to support our growth, improve efficiencies and continue to generate positive outcomes for our clients,” accūrō Solutions CEO Kenneth Hannigan, DBA said. “We built an amazing technology platform that automates many functions, yet its potential is only maximized when used by experienced professionals who have such a deep understanding of the P&C industry.”

 
All Splashlight employees have joined accūrō solutions, with its CEO and Founder Lisa Gran now serving as Chief Revenue Officer. In addition, Mike Knutter, who led Splashlight’s operations, has become Assistant Vice President of Bill Review.

 
The deal came about when Gran was investigating technology options to enhance Splashlight’s bill review services. “We wanted something fresh, new, and flexible and were very impressed by accūrō Solutions’ ARC platform,” she said. As conversations continued, Gran and Dr. Hannigan realized it made sense to combine the two companies.

 
“The acquisition reflects our investors’ commitment to the long-term growth and development of accūrō Solutions as the premier service provider in the medical bill review industry,” said Chris Feeney, Executive Board Member of accūrō Solutions.

 
About accūrō Solutions
 
accūrō Solutions provides complete and transparent bill processing technology and services to drive the workflow from the mailroom, through medical bill review and provider payment for companies in workers’ compensation and other property and casualty lines. Its proprietary ARC technology platform was built internally by IT and business professionals, with input from clients and business partners. More information can be found at www.accurosolutions.com.

 
Helen King Patterson, APR, King Knight Communications, 813-690-4787, helen@kingknight.com
 Two medical bill review companies serving workers' comp and other P&C lines join forces as accuro Solutions acquires Splashlight Solutions. 
Helen King Patterson, APR, King Knight Communications, 813-690-4787, helen@kingknight.com
