LSU entered Saturday as a top-15 team in the USA TODAY Sports college football rankings, but in the updated re-rank of all 133 FBS teams following a disappointing 55-49 loss to Ole Miss, the Tigers are free-falling. Coach Brian Kelly’s team dropped a stunning 24 spots, falling out of the top 25 all the way down to No. 37 in the rankings after Week 5. LSU still possesses one of the nation’s top offenses, but the defense is a major cause for concern, especially heading into what could be a tough matchup on the road against another top SEC offense in Missouri. Sitting at 3-2 on the year but with just one loss in SEC play, the Tigers’ hopes of reaching the College Football Playoff are likely over, but they could still contend in the SEC West. To do that, Saturday’s game against Mizzou in Week 6 feels like a must-win. Contact/Follow us @LSUTigersWire on Twitter, and like our page on Facebook to follow ongoing coverage of Louisiana State news, notes, and opinions. Follow Tyler to continue the conversation on Twitter: @TylerNettuno Story originally appeared on LSU Tigers Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts.