Fans of the Boston Celtics thirsting for some live basketball being played by members of their favorite team have kept an eye on reserve Celtics floor general Payton Pritchard, who has a notable part of Team USA’s training camp as a player on the FIBA World Cup squad’s scrimmage team. Pritchard’s remarkable performance against the main Team USA roster helped upset the main team. The former Oregon standout played a role in the win even with video of a flubbed 3-point attempt making the rounds. Pritchard’s growth and development as an NBA player needs more of these sorts of opportunities given the limited playing time the West Linn native has had in recent seasons. To talk it over along with the trickle of news still coming out, the hosts of the “Green With Envy” podcast convened on a recent episode. Check it out in the clip embedded above to hear their thoughts on Pritchard’s play for the USA Select squad this offseason. Listen to the “Celtics Lab” podcast on: Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/3zBKQY6 Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3GfUPFi YouTube: https://bit.ly/3F9DvjQ Follow all of your favorite New England teams at Celtics Wire and Patriots Wire!
 Follow all of your favorite New England teams at Celtics Wire and Patriots Wire! Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Celtics Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		 





 
				© Copyright Celtics Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		