Folarin Balogun has previously represented England in four different youth teams Arsenal forward Folarin Balogun's decision to switch international allegiance from England to the United States has been approved by Fifa. The 21-year-old, who is currently on loan with French side Reims, was born in the US to Nigerian parents but raised in England. Balogun has previously played for England Under-21s but withdrew from the squad in March because of injury. He will not play in the upcoming European Under-21 Championship. A Fifa spokesperson told BBC Sport: "The change of association of the player Folarin Jolaoluwa Balogun from England to the USA has been approved." Balogun has scored 19 Ligue 1 goals in 34 appearances for Reims this season. Speaking to US Soccer's official website, Balogun said the decision was a "no-brainer" and he feels at "home". Balogun said: "When I broke the news to my family they were all just over the moon, especially my mom. She said, 'What took you so long?' "To represent the United States means a lot, more than people would know. I'm very proud and honoured to have this opportunity, and I want to give everything I have to make our team successful." He has previously said he would be open to representing Nigeria but has decided to become available for the United States - a choice he was eligible to make having not won a senior England cap. Our coverage of your Premier League club is bigger and better than ever before - follow your team and sign up for notifications in the BBC Sport app to make sure you never miss a moment Veteran Vardy earns Leicester draw against wasteful Tottenham Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.