This video can not be played Women's World Cup 2023: USA begin with comfortable win over Vietnam The United States launched their bid for an unprecedented third consecutive world crown with a comfortable win against Women's World Cup debutants Vietnam in Auckland. Sophia Smith struck twice before half-time for the four-time world champions in front of thousands of travelling USA fans in a crowd of 41,107. Smith, one of 14 players in the squad appearing at their first World Cup, fired the number-one ranked team in the world ahead with a low drilled finish from an angle. Her second was awarded following a lengthy check by the Video Assistant Referee for an offside before captain Lindsey Horan, after an assist by Smith, swept home the third in the 77th minute. There was a memorable moment for Vietnam keeper Tran Thi Kim Thanh when she was mobbed by her jubilant team-mates after keeping out Alex Morgan's penalty, which was awarded for a foul on Trinity Rodman. Vietnam rarely managed to get out of their own half but worked hard and produced a gritty defensive performance to keep the scoreline respectable. Reaction as the United States defeat Vietnam at the Women's World Cup Are history-seeking USA still the team to beat? What do you know about the past 24 hours at the World Cup? There was a 40,000-plus crowd at Eden Park for the second successive game at the 2023 Women's World Cup While this was not the hammering some had predicted in the build-up, the United States did enough to get their campaign off to a winning start. Four years ago in France they recorded the biggest Women's World Cup win, a 13-0 thrashing of Thailand, in their opening game on the way to winning the tournament. They carved out enough chances against Vietnam to record another double-digit win and there was a tinge of disappointment from boss Vlatko Andonovski that his side did not make the most of their 28 attempts. The USA arrived in New Zealand as favourites but tougher tests lie ahead and only after Thursday's match against the Netherlands in Wellington - a repeat of the 2019 final - will their fans learn more about whether they can make it three World Cup successes in a row. This was so comfortable that Andonovski sent on 18-year-old Alyssa Thompson for her first taste of the World Cup, while fellow substitute and icon Megan Rapinoe also made her 200th appearance for the Stars and Stripes - 17 years to the weekend she made her debut. Rapinoe had a chance to mark the milestone with a goal but failed to take her chance, while Rose Lavelle struck the bar in the closing stages. Vietnam fans show their support during their country's first match at a men's or women's Fifa World Cup Eden Park was awash with colour as the defending champions launched their bid for a fifth world title. There was red, white and blue all around the ground as fans, who had travelled thousands of miles from the United States to be in Auckland, watched their team get off to a solid start at New Zealand's national stadium. Chants of "USA, USA, USA," broke out around the ground at regular intervals, while some supporters came dressed up as the Statue of Liberty. Others wore shirts with 'Rapinoe' on the back and one couple even brought their baby to the match. There was also a good luck message from former US President Barack Obama before the game. "You represent the best of the best, and I'll be cheering for you all the way," he wrote on social media., external Inside the ground there were patches of red as Vietnam's expat community turned up to watch a moment in their country's sporting history, with it being the first time the nation had appeared at either a Fifa men's or women's World Cup.  Vietnam were organised, tenacious and disciplined but they did not test American keeper Alyssa Naeher once despite neutrals in the crowd roaring each time their players crossed the halfway line. Reaction: Veteran Vardy scores as Leicester draw with Spurs on return to Premier League 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke Sinner beats Tiafoe to win Cincinnati Open title Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help How PFL uses boxing's blueprint to attract fans 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.