☰ In This Section 
Undergrad
Majors & Programs
Math & Computer Science
Majors & Minors
 Math & Computer Science Our B.S. in Software Engineering degree program is built on Bethel's thriving programs in math, computer science, physics, and engineering. You'll gain a broad knowledge base and become a well-rounded thinker while honing specialized skills in programming languages and software-related project management. While similar to our B.S. in Computer Science, the software engineering major specifically focuses on the practical applications and real-world challenges of software development. The field of software engineering is growing rapidly, with the Bureau of Labor Statistics projecting a 17% national increase in the number of positions by 2024. In our software engineering degree program, you'll benefit from the expertise of highly qualified faculty from many disciplines and a broad base of learning. With business courses and communication concepts—as well as opportunities to complete industry-focused projects with students from a variety of majors—you'll be prepared to thrive in a variety of careers. While our bachelor's degree in software engineering overlaps with computer science, added engineering courses and greater hands-on experience will give you a solid foundation in applied computer science concepts. Bethel's varied computer science majors are symbiotic, and you'll benefit from other students' diverse perspectives and particular interests in shared courses. As life and communication move increasingly online, software engineers and technology employees are becoming a vital part of every industry and workplace. From ministry to education, manufacturing to corporate settings, the software engineering major will equip students for success in many roles, including: Bethel alumni work as software engineers at: View a full list of where Bethel math and computer science graduates are currently working. Top 10 college math team 
                            9
                     
            full-time faculty in the department
         April 19, 2024 | Noon 




                OCT

                
15

                2024 STEM Employer Showcase 2024 6 p.m.  Boardroom A great chance for STEM students to network with employers in the STEM field! Mathematically-talented Christians need to think of mathematics as a path in which they may live out their faith. We can use our knowledge to further God's kingdom and live as lights in this world. Bethel served as a launchpad for me to eventually discover my purpose in Jesus' kingdom, which includes my career as a budding entrepreneur founding Laminera, as well as how I've evolved in my faith and integrated the two. Helpful instructions on math testing for incoming and current students planning to take Precalculus, Calculus 1, or Math for Elementary Education 1. Bethel University 

Location
Location icon

Maps & Directions

 651.638.6400 Support Bethel © 2024 Bethel University | CA Student Disclosures | Privacy Policy The official policy and commitment of Bethel University is not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, age, gender, or disability in its educational programs, admissions, or employment practices.