EECS Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Helpful Links Navigate OHIO Connect With Us Whether you want to work for an industry giant like Intel, Boeing or Google; a startup in Silicon Valley; or build your own company from the ground up, the Russ College’s School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) offers a world-class, student-centered learning experience on the cutting edge of research, design and development of software and systems that power the world today – and beyond. Undergrad Programs Graduate Programs Research People Students in our Electrical Engineering Program can choose the Computer Engineering track or the Electrical Engineering track. Electrical and electronics engineers research, design and test products for power, communications, navigation and manufacturing systems, as well as circuits, lasers and optoelectronics. The discipline of computer science covers the breadth of computing technologies that have since developed in this rapidly changing field. Potential careers from this degree include a range of industries, such as software development, networking, consulting, insurance and banking.  Our bachelor's degree in Artificial Intelligence (AI) trains students in the emerging computer science discipline of AI, machine learning and deep learning. Students receive in-depth training and knowledge to transform large amounts of data into actionable decisions for complex inputs such as vision, language and databases.  Graduate study in electrical engineering will give you the tools to design, implement, test and create the next generation of electrical and electronics systems that keep our planet connected. We also offer an online M.S. in Electrical Engineering. With a master’s or doctoral degree in computer science, you can influence the future of computing systems — from immersive technologies to supercomputing. The Department of Computer Science offers both master's and doctoral degree programs, as well as a variety of specialized research opportunities. The School of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science held its annual Senior Design Showcase event on April 17th, 2024 in the Academic and Research Center (ARC) Atrium. We created highlight views for the projects displayed in the showcase. We'll let the students tell you about their work in their own words. 1 / 6 Room Availability App Go Ohio Student Routes Event Planning App Curfew - Surplus Food App Inertial Measurement Wireless Fencing Scoring System View All News Stories  A time-honored tradition at OHIO, Welcome Week 2024 is packed with activities that cater to new and returning students, setting the stage for a successful and vibrant semester.  OHIO's Gordon K. Bush Airport has been awarded $2.5 million in state funding to support improvements to its existing 12,000-square-foot box hangar space.  Researchers from several fields at Ohio University recently collaborated to make lateral flow assay biotests less expensive and more accessible allowing more people to take potentially life-saving tests. View All Upcoming Events © 2024 Ohio University. All rights reserved.