Matthew Marcus, right, a software engineer from Portland, will compete on the "Jeopardy!" episode that airs Thursday, Feb. 2. At left is host Ken Jennings.Jeopardy Productions, Inc. Another Portlander will test his ability on the popular “Jeopardy!” quiz show on Thursday. Matthew Marcus, a software engineer, will be competing with two other players on the Feb. 2 episode. Ken Jennings will host. Marcus is the latest player from the Pacific Northwest to compete on “Jeopardy!” Most recently, a bit of a kerfuffle surrounded Yogesh Raut, a Vancouver podcaster and quiz veteran, who won three “Jeopardy!” games and finished his four-game stint with more than $98,000 in winnings. On social media, some “Jeopardy!” viewers criticized Raut for what they characterized as a lack of sportsmanship, and for arrogance. Raut also posted on social media, with some thoughts about his experience, his reaction to what he said were examples of racism, and his view that “Jeopardy!” didn’t necessarily represent the top tier of quizzing talent. In an interview with The Oregonian/OregonLive, Raut said he found the backlash to him and his “Jeopardy!” appearances were “bizarrely personal,” and that he was being blamed for decisions made by others. He emphasized that he had “zero complaints about how I was treated by anyone there, or about the other contestants. They were super people. I hope to continue to be friends with them for quite some time, and I’m grateful to have had the opportunity to meet them.” The matter of who deserves to follow the late Alex Trebek, the much-loved, longtime “Jeopardy!” host, continues to be debated in some quarters, even though it was announced that “Jeopardy!” interim hosts Ken Jennings and Mayim Bialik would split hosting duties among the syndicated weekday show and primetime spinoffs, like “Celebrity Jeopardy!” The “Jeopardy!” game that airs tonight will determine who Portland’s Matthew Marcus will be competing with in the episode that airs Thursday. One of his fellow players will be Anita Perala, a product management consultant from Jersey City, New Jersey. As of Wednesday afternoon, the returning champ is Jake DeArruda, a delivery dispatcher originally from Ludlow, Vermont, who had won three games, for a total so far of $68,661. For those keeping score at home, a TV Insider piece discusses some of DeArruda’s thoughts about “Jeopardy!”, and how DeArruda said he and other contestants “collectively cheered” when they learned Jennings would be the host of the shows they were taping. “Jeopardy!” airs locally at 7 p.m. weeknights on KATU-TV in Portland. — Kristi Turnquist 503-221-8227; kturnquist@oregonian.com; @Kristiturnquist Our journalism needs your support. Please become a subscriber today at OregonLive.com/subscribe If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices