Quickparts will use CO-AM to streamline their order-to-cash operations, automate processes and securely manage production across distribution manufacturing sites. Quickparts has partnered with Materialise to leverage its CO-AM platform to manage its distributed manufacturing flows. The platform will support Quickparts’ traditional and additive manufacturing (AM) capacities and connect to existing production systems.  “Adopting CO-AM within Quickparts’ manufacturing operations will enable us to streamline our distributed global production facilities and modernize our capabilities with efficiency so we are able to achieve the fastest lead times in the industry,” says Ziad Abou, CEO of Quickparts. “Once CO-AM is integrated, we can process orders faster, which allows us to improve our cost structure through fleet optimization and machine utilization. It gives us, and our customers, traceability to every part along the manufacturing process so we can realize the highest quality standard with all of our parts.” Quickparts runs seven global design and production centers across North America and Europe. Its distributed manufacturing network required a software solution capable of connecting all sites and of integrating traditional and AM technologies. Quickparts began the CO-AM implementation at their U.S. locations in Seattle and Lawrenceburg at the end of last year and will extend the platform to additional locations in the second quarter of 2023.  Quickparts will use CO-AM to streamline its order-to-cash operations, automate processes and securely manage production across distribution manufacturing sites. This will allow Quickparts to collect and access production data, monitor and improve workflows, and achieve efficiency. The CO-AM platform integration will help Quickparts successfully scale AM operations with an open ecosystem that connects to a wide range of technologies and integrates with its existing production infrastructures. “The open architecture of CO-AM enables manufacturers to work with their preferred tools, giving them the flexibility to build a process that is tailored to their business,” says Bart Van der Schueren, CTO of Materialise. “We look forward to our collaboration with Quickparts to create and grow their software solution for high-quality, on-demand manufacturing through CO-AM.” Sources: Press materials received from the company and additional information gleaned from the company’s website. DE’s editors contribute news and new product announcements to Digital Engineering.
Press releases may be sent to them via  [email protected].