Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 This massive asset manager saw strong demand for one of its products in particular. Last month, we witnessed the failure of Signature Bank and SVB Financial's Silicon Valley Bank. The Federal Reserve introduced a Bank Term Funding Program to make depositors whole -- unfortunately with investors holding the bag as federal regulators seized the banks. The failure of the banks had another effect: It made investors and risk managers rethink what they were doing. Bond investments have become more appealing to investors in the past year thanks to rising interest rates. Interest rates on government bonds have risen above levels not seen since 2007. Investors have flocked into bonds and their related exchange-traded funds. One company that has benefited from these ripple effects is BlackRock (BLK -0.26%). Here's what investors learned when the asset manager reported earnings on April 14. BlackRock is the world's largest asset manager, with over $9 trillion in assets under management (AUM). Its key to success is its wide array of product offerings that clients can choose from to diversify their portfolios. Data source: Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. Chart by author.  It offers over 1,250 products globally, including its index and ETF products. These products span asset classes, including equities, fixed-income, and alternative assets. Its primary source of revenue is through investment advisory and fees, which are primarily based on a percentage of its total AUM. The company also offers its Aladdin software, which provides investors with portfolio and risk analytics, giving them the tools to analyze and reallocate their portfolios. BlackRock provides fixed-income products as part of its array of investment options. These product offerings include Treasury bonds, investment grade bond ETFs, and municipal bond ETFs. Last year, it saw a record $123 billion flow into these funds.  The strong inflows into bonds continued in the first quarter, with $34 billion flowing into its bond ETFs. Because of its wide range of ETFs, investors can access investment options to take advantage of changing market conditions. BlackRock has investments across the entire yield curve, which investors have used to manage risk and shift to safe-haven assets during this time of uncertainty. Data source: BlackRock regulatory filings. Chart by author. 2023 data is through Q1. BlackRock CEO Larry Fink told investors, "BlackRock ETFs once again proved their value as critically important tools for active management and in providing liquidity, transparency, and price discovery to clients during stressed markets." Fink went on to say that the recent volatility and stress in the banking market are the consequences of prolonged periods of aggressive federal and monetary policies coming to an end.  As a result, we have had a sharp rise in inflation and rapidly rising interest rates, which have caused dislocations and disruptions in capital markets. It is moments like this that "have been inflection points for BlackRock," Fink said. BlackRock is a massive player in capital markets because of its numerous investment products spread across asset classes and strategies. This, coupled with its Aladdin technology, makes it a key player in helping Wall Street's most prominent investors manage investment portfolios. Given its importance on the global investing stage, BlackRock is a solid stock that warrants consideration from long-term investors. SVB Financial provides credit and banking services to The Motley Fool. Courtney Carlsen has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends SVB Financial. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.