
Insourced Chief Investment Officer (ICIO) innovator coaxes former Blackrock executive out of retirement
 
Helios, pioneer of the Insourced Chief Investment Officer (ICIO) model, created to equip financial advisors with the necessary tools and support to increase scale and efficiency as well as communicate with more confidence, today announced that it has hired former Blackrock Managing Director of Global Equity Index Strategy, Corin Frost, CFA, as the firm's new Managing Director.

 
A 22-year veteran of the investment and portfolio management space, Frost retired from Blackrock in 2016 having spent almost 16 years at the world's largest asset manager in a variety of positions, most recently as the Global Head of Index Strategy. Frost will leverage his vast experience in developing client facing strategies, driving the growth of new investment products and assembling and managing a diverse investment strategy team to benefit Helios' clients.

 
"We are excited to welcome a professional of Corin's caliber on board the Helios team," said Chris Shuba, Helios Founder and CEO. "The experience and knowledge he amassed at Blackrock, and at Barclays prior to that, will take our outstanding team to the next level. Helios is committed to finding and hiring top-tier talent to deliver an exceptional experience for our clients."

 
Frost's appointment solidifies Helios' commitment to recruiting the best talent in the industry, following the recent addition of senior research analysts, Lena Arai, Ph.D. and Caleb Findell to the firm.

 
Retiring from Blackrock in 2016, Frost's route to joining Helios was not a traditional one. Having recently moved to Scottsdale, AZ, Frost cited his interest in resuming work within a diverse investment environment among the reasons for joining Helios. A member of both the MSCI and FTSE Client Advisory Boards, Frost's firsthand knowledge of the global investment landscape marks a highly desirable addition to the Helios team.

 
"It's exciting to be part of a firm like Helios where I feel I can really make a difference and move the needle for the firm itself and particularly for our clients," said Frost. "At the end of the day, the services we provide can really increase the value an advisor can provide to their client, allowing them to spend more time on planning and advice while gaining access to our expert analysts and suite of tools."

 
The appointment of Frost will further enhance Helios' ability to provide the highest quality of investment research at scale, and to influence the development and growth of new product offerings as it expands its reach within the industry.

 
For more information on Helios, visit https://heliosdriven.com/ or contact Corin Frost at corin.frost@heliosdriven.com
 
About Helios
 
Founded in 2016, Helios Quantitative Research was created to equip Financial Advisors with new and relevant tools that drastically improve their client's asset management experience, expand their firm's margins, and challenge the old-guard legacy providers as well as the emerging robos of Silicon Valley.

 
The Insourced Chief Investment Officer (ICIO) role, as reimagined by Helios, is designed to allow advisors to differentiate their firm efficiently and at scale, empowering advisors with the tools and resources they need to communicate effectively no matter what's going on in the markets, including white-labeled market updates, investment strategy summaries, monthly research reports and investment committee documentation, allowing the advisor to concentrate on what matters most, the end investor.

 
In a short time, Helios has grown to influence over 800 Financial Advisors who collectively manage over $30 billion.

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231030066097/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.