
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? The former headquarters of BJ’s Wholesale Club at 25 Research Drive in Westborough was sold on Friday for $32 million, a few months after a redevelopment plan was approved for the site. The buyer was Westborough Research Investments, LLC, according to the Worcester District Registry of Deeds. That entity is registered to a California real estate attorney, Brian Aronson of the law firm Mayer Brown in Los Angeles. BJ’s Wholesale Club moved its headquarters to 350 Campus Drive in Marlborough in October. In 2022, Boston developer Samuels & Associates proposed demolishing the buildings at 25 and 29 Research Drive to build four buildings totaling 715,000 square feet as a life sciences, office, and manufacturing campus. The proposal was approved in September, which was first reported by the Community Advocate. Calls placed Friday afternoon for Aronson, Samuels & Associates, and Worcester real estate broker Kelleher & Sadowsky Associates were not immediately returned. The neighboring property at 29 Research Drive is owned by Triborough Real Estate, LLC of Upton, an affiliate of Triboro Crane and Rigging Services, which operates at 29 Research Drive. The former BJ’s property was last sold in 2019 to CF Alpha & Golf MA Propco LLC, an affiliate of Broadstone Net Lease, Inc. of Rochester, New York, for $33 million as part of a portfolio sale. The 25 Research Drive property is assessed by the Town of Westborough for $26,622,900. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy