  Integral Digital delivers trading, custody and white label solution today PALO ALTO, California (January 19, 2023) – Integral (www.integral.com), a leading currency technology provider to the financial markets, announced the launch of Integral Digital, a full extension of its award-winning trading and client distribution platform to support cryptocurrencies and fiat-backed stablecoins. Developed in conjunction with Mint Exchange Inc., a leading institutional crypto exchange, the new platform supports Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Stellar, CoDEX and 100+ ERC-20 tokens. Services include aggregation and connectivity to over 30 crypto liquidity providers, desktop and mobile client trading, risk management, and hot and cold wallet custody solutions. Integral Digital is available on a monthly subscription basis and can easily integrate with in-house and third-party providers via FIX and Rest APIs. In addition, Integral Digital offers a fully integrated Prime Brokerage solution providing direct market access to multiple exchanges and market makers via a single account, maximizing netting across multiple venues and significantly reducing collateral requirements. “In one big step, Integral is reshaping the landscape of digital asset technology. By extending the leading fiat currency technology, which processes more than $1 trillion in monthly transactions, digital asset businesses no longer need to settle for sub-par technology and credit solutions. Together with our partners at Mint Exchange we are able to bring direct connectivity to every major source of crypto liquidity combined with state-of-the-art custody solutions and the highest availability trading infrastructure, all delivered from our cloud datacenters in New York, London, Tokyo and Singapore,” said Harpal Sandhu, CEO of Integral. The new offering is available now and serves both regulated and unregulated digital asset businesses globally. Further information is available on www.integral.com/digital-assets. About IntegralIntegralis the currency technology partner to hundreds of financial institutions, including banks, brokers and cross-border payment companies, with close to $60bn traded, transacted or exchanged daily on our network. Adopted first by the financial markets and now invaluable to every global business across all industries – our corporate-meets-consumer cloud, technology stack is already powering the change and solving the currency challenges every global organization is facing.Founded in 1993, we built our cloud technology before the world knew what cloud was, and maintain development, support, and sales offices in Palo Alto, New York, London, Tokyo, Singapore and Bangalore. Additional information is available at www.integral.com/digital-assets.