BlaBlaCar has announced that it plans to acquire Klaxit, a smaller French startup. Klaxit is a carpooling service so that you don’t have to drive your car to work every day. BlaBlaCar has its own commuting service called BlaBlaCar Daily. Klaxit will complement this service after the acquisition closes. BlaBlaCar is better known for its long-distance ridesharing service. The company matches empty car seats with passengers going in the same direction. It’s an alternative to trains or buses when you want to travel to another city for a vacation or if you want to visit your family. Many people have also relied on BlaBlaCar for rides between smaller cities as there isn’t a train station in every small city. Over time, the company added other services, such as a bus marketplace with the acquisition of Ouibus and an online bus ticketing platform with the acquisition of Busfor. In 2017, the company launched a new app and service called BlaBlaLines. This time, the company wanted to match drivers heading to work with other employees looking for a transportation method. The app was rebranded to BlaBlaCar Daily shortly after its launch. But BlaBlaCar wasn’t the only company thinking about commutes. Other startups like Klaxit and Karos have also been working on similar services. That’s because daily commutes represent a significant portion of car rides. And yet, most people are alone in their car when they head to work. Optimizing those rides is a good way to save money on daily commutes. It’s also better for the environment and Local governments love the idea as it improves traffic conditions. There are several ways to monetize a service like that. End users can pay riders directly. Companies can contribute to the service as it can be considered as a benefit. Local governments can subsidize the services as carpooling to contribute to reducing road infrastructure budget. Klaxit in particular has signed a ton of partnerships with local governments since its inception in 2012. More than 50 local governments and 350 companies have partnered with the platform to foster carpooling. In 2022, Klaxit facilitated 2.6 million rides on its platform. BlaBlaCar says that it plans to merge BlaBlaCar Daily and Klaxit in 2024. While it will increase the user base, there’s still a long road ahead as there are more than 10 million people driving to work alone every day in France. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.