BlackRock Inc. (NYSE: BLK) is the largest asset manager in the world, with $9.42 trillion in assets under management (AUM) as of June 30, 2023. It was funded in 1988 and had an Initial Public Offering (IPO) in September 1999. Interestingly, BlackRock stock’s initial offering was at $14 per share on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the investment company was managing $165 billion in assets by the end of 1999. It was in 2009 that BlackRock became the largest asset manager in the world — a title that is kept as of the time of publication, with BLK changing hands by $636.10 per share. Notably, BlackRock stock is up 4,443.57%, from the IPO in September 1999 at $14, to current prices on October 18. BlackRock Inc., as an investment company, has sought to position itself as an industry leader in environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG). Its largest AUM funds have also been deployed to acquire company shares worldwide with governance rights. In this context, BlackRock is known to be a major shareholder in the most relevant companies in the stock market from multiple regions and sectors. Particularly, BlackRock was also spotted as one major shareholder in 4 of the 5 largest Bitcoin miners, with the following consolidated position: Moreover, the company’s exchange-traded funds (ETFs) branch, iShares, recently requested to launch its own Bitcoin spot ETF in the United States. The SEC has delayed its response, and Blackrock’s request is still waiting for the U.S. authority’s approval. Best Crypto Exchange for Intermediate Traders and Investors 
                Invest in 70+ cryptocurrencies and 3,000+ other assets including stocks and precious metals.
               
                0% commission on stocks - buy in bulk or just a fraction from as little as $10. Other fees apply. For more information, visit etoro.com/trading/fees.
               
                Copy top-performing traders in real time, automatically.
               
                eToro USA is registered with FINRA for securities trading.
               
                    By subscribing you agree with Finbold
                    T&C’s
                    & Privacy Policy
 Or copy link Create price alerts for stocks & crypto. Get started Get started  
              Copyright © 2024 Finbold.com. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service.
           
Disclaimer: The information on this website is for general informational and educational purposes only and does not constitute financial, legal, tax, or investment advice. This site does not make any financial promotions, and all content is strictly informational. By using this site, you agree to our full disclaimer and terms of use. For more information, please read our complete Global Disclaimer.
        