FDIC taps BlackRock to sell failed bank portfolios SVB, Signature Bank’s holdings of mortgage-backed securities, CMOs to be sold off The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has hired BlackRock Financial Market Advisory to gradually sell off the securities portfolios of two recently-failed banks, New York’s Signature Bank and Santa Clara, Calif.-based Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). The FDIC retained the securities in its role as receiver for the two banks, which failed last month. On March 26, First–Citizens Bank & Trust Co. acquired SVB’s assets at a discount, but the securities portfolio remained with the FDIC. The portfolios are primarily comprised of comprised of mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. The agency said that SVB’s portfolio has a face value of US$87 billion, and Signature Bank’s portfolio is valued at US$27 billion. BlackRock will now be charged with selling off the securities holdings in a process that the FDIC said “will be gradual and orderly, and will aim to minimize the potential for any adverse impact on market functioning by taking into account daily liquidity and trading conditions.” 

					Every day, get the financial news that matters in your inbox.				
 
								Venture promised outsized returns it had no way of generating, regulators allege							 
								Forex TB Ltd. took advantage of vulnerable retail investors, regulator alleged							 
								Exchange overpromised, under-delivered on clearing system replacement							 
								Much of the industry's involvement may be outside the SRO's perimeter							 
								Department of Finance proposals would also reduce the number of people who must file a bare trust return, starting in 2025							 
								Clarifications concerning the capital dividend account are welcomed by tax practitioners							 
								Two sectors made 53% of all corporate capital gains in Canada between 2018 and 2022, data shows							 
								Settlement hearing with Royal Mutual Funds scheduled for Oct. 15							 ©

	Newcom Media Inc. 
 We use cookies to make your website experience better. By accepting this notice and continuing to browse our website you confirm you accept our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy. read more >>