Global Witness Press release | March 30, 2023 Share this      Some of the world’s biggest financiers have been bankrolling
meatpacking giants linked to deforestation in Paraguay’s richly forested Gran
Chaco region - with some increasing their shareholding tenfold in the last two
years - according to a new investigation by Global Witness. This is despite
warnings first made public in a report by the NGO Earthsight in 2020, who labelled
rampant forest destruction in Paraguay “the world’s worst deforestation crisis”.  Published
today, Global Witness’ report builds on Earthsight’s devastating exposé, which
accused meat-packing giants – Minerva and Frigorifico Concepción - of buying
cattle raised by two ranchers responsible for land grabbing and forest
clearance within the ancestral lands of Indigenous peoples in the Chaco. Three
years on from the explosive findings, Global Witness found evidence that Minerva
continued sourcing products from at least one of the deforestation-linked
ranchers in 2021 - though Minerva denied this. Despite
the companies’ links
to known deforesters in the Chaco, as well as the evidence
from the Earthsight investigation being in the public domain, many leading
financiers continue to invest in Minerva. Global Witness’ investigation found that [2]: In the EU:
(between December 2020 and December 2022)   In the US:
As of December 2022, two US-based major asset managers, Vanguard, and BlackRock, still held significant shares
in Minerva, totalling $13.3 million. This represents a substantial increase
since illegal deforestation was first identified in Minerva’s Paraguayan supply
chain in 2019.  Between September 2019 and December 2022   In the UK:
HSBC was one of several banks that underwrote a $1.4 billion bond sale for
Minerva in March 2021 – earning itself almost half a million dollars in the
process. Charlie Hammans, Civil Society Adviser at Global
Witness, said: “Our investigation shows that many UK, European and American
banks are failing to ensure their portfolios are deforestation-free and free of
any associated human rights violations. Either these banks are failing to carry
out effective due diligence or they are willing to side-line environmental and
human rights concerns in favour of business as usual.”  “Indigenous Peoples are on the front line of climate
change. They pay the price when commodities are produced illegally on their
lands. It’s time that governments ensure that major financial players turn off
the money pipeline to companies sourcing commodities from deforested land and
Indigenous areas.” All the financial institutions exposed – with the sole
exception of Vanguard - are signatories of either the Net Zero Asset Manager
Initiative or the Net Zero Banking Alliance. BNP Paribas and Santander are
members of both. Both initiatives commit the banks or asset managers to reach
net zero emissions by 2050, with all members advised to set a target to
eliminate deforestation from their portfolios. 
 Other banks including HSBC, JP Morgan and Santander have
collectively earnt over a million dollars underwriting bonds and assisting
share sales for Minerva. Other financial institutions have underwritten
Frigorifico Concepción’s bond sales, including Bank of America, which
underwrote a $285 million deal for the company in 2021. Rubens Carvalho,
Head of Deforestation Research at
Earthsight, said: “The level of carbon emissions from Chaco deforestation over
the last few decades puts its climate change contribution on a par with higher
profile deforestation frontiers in the Amazon and South-East Asia. Research has
revealed the biome stores up to 19 times more carbon than previously thought.
It is vital that urgent action is taken now to conserve this often overlooked
but critical biome. The Paraguayan government itself has been complicit by
failing to fulfil its obligations to protect indigenous land which is so
important for our planet’s future.” According to Global
Forest Watch, Paraguay lost a quarter of its net forest cover between 2000 and
2020. The country now has one of the highest rates of deforestation in the
world. Paraguay has lost an estimated 5.2
million hectares between 2001-2021, an area almost twice the size of Belgium -
putting the future of the forest and the people who depend on it at risk.  Ana Romero, a
representative of the Indigenous Youth Union of Paraguay, said: “Meatpackers are causing environmental issues, and significant
social issues as well. Theirs is a capitalist system - which focuses on
excessive consumption. We have to defend the rights of those that really defend
our ecosystems – Indigenous peoples. These ranchers and meatpackers are
destroying an ecosystem that they depend on too.” The new investigation builds upon Global Witness’ Deforestation Dividends
2021 report – launched in the run up to COP26 – which showed that banks and
asset managers based in the UK, US, EU and China made deals worth around $157
billion with just 20 agri-businesses implicated in deforestation between 2016
and 2020. It comes as legislation in the European
Union and the United Kingdom is set to ban the trading of certain commodities
produced on deforested land and amid growing support for similar measures in
the US.  However, these rules still currently allow UK and EU
financiers to fund the production of forest-wrecking commodities. There are
therefore growing calls to ensure that the new deforestation rules include
obligations for banks and financiers, with MEPs in Europe and key British
legislators backing such proposals. There are also efforts to table similar
legislation in the US. Giulia Bondi, Senior EU Forests Campaigner at Global Witness,
said: "Talk is cheap, and voluntary commitments from banks to stop funding deforestation are no exception. Time and time again, these voluntary initiatives have proven futile.  Previous evidence uncovered by Global Witness revealed that, between 2016-2020, EU-based financial institutions were complicit in financing €30.6 billion in deals with 20 agribusiness companies accused of deforestation."The urgency of the situation cannot be understated: the European Commission must swiftly fulfil its commitments agreed in the new anti-deforestation law and propose rules to stop the EU-based financial institutions bankrolling forests destruction. "The European Commission must also push ahead with its obligation to extend the new law to other wooded lands, which are vital carbon sinks but increasingly under pressure from large-scale agriculture activities."   This page was updated on 03/05/2023 to correct an error
in the original text. The page stated that Minerva Foods and BlackRock did not
respond to our request for comment. This was incorrect.  / ENDS Charlie Hammans General/out of hours media enquiries Evie Calder [1] All meatpackers and ranchers mentioned in the report were approached for comment regarding their links to deforestation in the Chaco, except for Caucasian SA who could not be contacted as they have no online presence or contact details. Frigorifico Concepcion denied these allegations in correspondence with Global Witness. Minerva denied the allegation that one of the ranches
Yaguarete Pora supplied them/Athena Foods. They did not deny Global Witness’
allegation that Caucasian SA had supplied Minerva Foods and stated that the Caucasian
SA ranches in question do not overlap into PNCAT lands or environmental
protection areas, and are in compliance with Minerva Foods cattle purchase
criteria. Please see the report for their full responses.    [2] All financial institutions mentioned in the report were approached for comment. BNP Paribas and
BlackRock responded. Please see the report for BNP Paribas’ full response. BlackRock
stated that their reply was not for publication. © Global Witness 2024 (Global Witness is not responsible for the content of external sites)