There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the NA sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on PROG Holdings (PRG – Research Report), Hilton Worldwide Holdings (HLT – Research Report) and Blackstone Mortgage (BXMT – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. PROG Holdings (PRG) Bank of America Securities analyst Jason Haas CFA  reiterated a Buy rating on PROG Holdings yesterday and set a price target of $39.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $29.39. According to TipRanks.com, CFA is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 16.9% and a 58.8% success rate. CFA covers the NA sector, focusing on stocks such as Ollie’s Bargain Outlet Holding, Qurate Retail Group, and Williams-Sonoma. Currently, the analyst consensus on PROG Holdings is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $40.75, representing a 25.5% upside. In a report issued on October 10, Jefferies also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $42.00 price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Hilton Worldwide Holdings (HLT) Bank of America Securities analyst Shaun Kelley  maintained a Buy rating on Hilton Worldwide Holdings yesterday and set a price target of $170.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $150.75. According to TipRanks.com, Kelley is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 3.1% and a 51.6% success rate. Kelley covers the NA sector, focusing on stocks such as Marriott International, Las Vegas Sands, and Vail Resorts. Hilton Worldwide Holdings has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $167.22, which is a 12.2% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, TD Cowen also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $170.00 price target.
		  Blackstone Mortgage (BXMT) In a report released yesterday, Donald Fandetti  from Wells Fargo maintained a Buy rating on Blackstone Mortgage, with a price target of $22.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $19.69. According to TipRanks.com, Fandetti is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 10.7% and a 54.2% success rate. Fandetti covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Discover Financial Services, Capital One Financial, and Synchrony Financial. Currently, the analyst consensus on Blackstone Mortgage is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $22.40, a 13.4% upside from current levels. In a report released yesterday, Bank of America Securities also reiterated a Buy rating on the stock with a $22.00 price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on PRG:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks