The Quad [Rendering: Stream Realty Partners] M Financial Group, a large financial services firm headquartered in Portland, Oregon, has signed a lease to open its first Dallas office at Stream Realty Partners’ The QUAD development at 2699 Howell St., Stream announced Thursday. M Financial Group, which announced two weeks ago that it was opening a Dallas location, is a financial services company with a network of more than 130 independent member firms in 36 U.S. states and in the U.K. The lease is for roughly 52,000 square feet in the 12-story office building under construction in the heart of Uptown Dallas. “Our expansion into Dallas gives us a more centralized location to better serve our wide-ranging community of Member Firms and their clients,” M Financial President and CEO Russell Bundschuh said in a statement.  Bundschuh said The QUAD gives the firm “the best of both worlds.” The location in Uptown Dallas is surrounded by a “flourishing financial services sector and all the benefits that provides.” Construction at The Quad. The 12-story office building is set to complete in March 2024. [Photo: Stream Realty Partners] M Financial, based in Portland since its incorporation in 1978, said the expansion to Dallas represents its first foothold outside of the Portland area. The QUAD, a development project branded by Stream Realty Partners as the dawning of “a different Dallas,” broke ground in 2022. The project site was once home to the Quadrangle, Dallas’ first mixed-use development, which dates back to 1966. Set for completion in March 2024, M Financial Group is set to call it home. The move to the distinctive QUAD building in Dallas’ Uptown could be a fitting next chapter for the firm founded by industry pioneers.  The 45-year-old financial firm built by Eli Morgan, Mark Solomon, Carl Mammel, and Peter Mullin — “the four Ms who make up the heart and soul of M Financial Group — brought the vision, the fortitude, and the boldness to disrupt a more-than-a-century-old industry that had slipped into complacency,” Bundschuh said. The firm is celebrating its 45th anniversary this year, and recently commemorated the innovation and entrepreneurism of “The Four Ms” in a mural installed at its Portland office. M Financial Group industry innovators Eli Morgan, Mark Solomon, Carl Mammel, and Peter Mullin in a new mural at the company’s Portland headquarters. Image: video screenshot] M Financial Group operates a network of firms specializing in comprehensive financial services. Through its network of independent firms, the firm provides customized insurance and executive benefit solutions to high-net-worth individuals, corporate executives, entrepreneurs, and Fortune 1000 companies. “We place a high degree of intensity on anything we do in Uptown because it’s integral to our reputation as the largest home-grown commercial real estate service provider in Dallas,” said Stream co-founder Mike McVean, at the project groundbreaking last year. “The QUAD is the largest single investment we’ve ever made in Dallas. If you’re not a big player in the urban core of your home market, then you’re not a player.” The QUAD is a 345,425-square-foot, state-of-the-art office building and surrounding 18,500-square-foot retail area. “We’ve received a strong response from the market on the offering at The QUAD, particularly as it relates to the building’s differentiated design, amenities, and technology,” Ramsey March, executive managing director & partner of development at Stream, said in a statement. “As we prepare to open the building early next year, the lease with M Financial is indicative of leasing momentum we expect to accelerate as tenants get a glimpse of the finished product.” Stream said that M Financial is the third office tenant to sign a lease in The QUAD. Earlier this year, Revantage, a Blackstone Real Estate portfolio company, agreed to take 32,000 square feet at the development. Chicago Title, the largest title insurer and provider of real-estate-related products, was the first office tenant to commit to the project, agreeing to occupy 21,000 square feet. Also, Two Hands, a community-focused eatery based in Australian café culture, was the first retail tenant to sign a lease.  Stream said it will announce the remainder of the restaurant lineup later this fall.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Welcome to the pulse of North Texas, where creativity and innovation converge to shape the future of business and beyond. Plano ISD partners with Capital One for the Savings Success program to take some of the myths out of money and turn them into financial facts. North Texas has plenty to see, hear, and watch. Here are our editors' picks. Plus, you'll find more selections to "save the date." Peruse Dallas Innovates' special once-a-year magazines. Each edition is a keeper. Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.