Comment AI21 Labs, a Tel Aviv-based startup developing a range of text-generating AI tools, has raised $155 million in a Series C funding round led by Walden Catalyst, Pitango, SCB10X, b2venture, Samsung Next and Amnon Shashua, the founder of Intel-owned Mobileye and an AI21 Labs co-founder. Google and Nvidia also participated. The tranche, which brings AI21 Labs’ total raised to $283 million, values the company at $1.4 billion — a bit higher than the figure The Information reported earlier today ($1.2 billion). “AI21 Labs came out of stealth in October 2020 with our first launch of [AI writing tool] Wordtune,” Yoav Shoham, one of AI21 Labs’ co-CEOs, told TechCrunch via email. “Since then, we’ve only managed to grow, more than doubling our workforce with plans to add even more employees.” AI21 Labs was founded in 2017 by Shashua, Shoham and Ori Goshen, the startup’s other co-CEO. Shoham, a professor emeritus at Stanford, previously sold two companies to Google, the time management app Timeful and social network friends organizer Katango. Goshen is also a serial entrepreneur, having co-founded and led several Israel-based tech companies, including the telco analytics firm Crowdx. AI21 Labs’ flagship product is AI21 Studio, a pay-as-you-go developer platform for building custom text-based business apps off of AI21’s proprietary text-generating AI models — including its cutting-edge Jurassic-2 model. The startup also sells access to the aforementioned Wordtune, a multilingual reading and writing AI assistant akin to Grammarly. Customers can tap AI21 Labs’ platform via APIs for specific generative AI use cases, like summarization, paraphrasing and grammar and spelling correction. The startup’s models support a growing number of languages, including Spanish, German, Italian and Dutch. AI21 Labs competes with an expanding roster of startups and incumbents in the red-hot generative AI space. Google, AWS and Microsoft offer tooling comparable to AI21 Studio, as do startups like Cohere, OpenAI and Anthropic (and to a lesser extent marketing-focused vendors such as Jasper, Regie and Typeface). And AI21 Labs is at a funding disadvantage; OpenAI has raised $11.3 billion to date, while Anthropic and Cohere have raked in $1.6 billion and $435 million, respectively. But Shoham asserts that AI21 Labs’ solutions are superior in several aspects, despite looking similar on the surface and not having the benefit of a higher R&D budget. For one, Shoham says, they’re developed on “some of the world’s largest and most sophisticated large language models” and offer “more refined control” than many generative AI apps on the market. Moreover, they’re trained on up-to-date data, unlike text-generating models trained on older data, which can’t accurately answer questions about current events. “The AI21’s AI systems are easy to integrate and generate reliable, trustworthy and accurate results,” Shoham said. “The quality and quantity of training data is a huge challenge in the industry. We’ve worked hard to ensure that we’re using up-to-date data, constantly training our models on additional data and working to ensure that the data used is reliable and trustworthy.” Having not tested AI21 Labs’ products recently, I can’t speak to the veracity of those claims. But exaggerated or no, AI21 Labs appears to be gaining some traction despite its disadvantages. Shoham — who wouldn’t reveal the size of AI21 Labs’ customer base, save that it includes “several” Fortune 100 companies — says that Wordtune alone has over 10 million users. And AI21 Labs was a launch partner for Bedrock, Amazon’s generative AI app development platform. Shoham says that the latest funding tranche will allow AI21 Labs to accelerate its R&D efforts and “reach its goal of developing the next level of AI,” with “the capabilities of reasoning across many domains.” AI21 Labs also plans to pursue more partnerships with companies “across the entire tech ecosystem” and increase its 200-person headcount, with a principal focus on roles in research and business development. AI21 Labs continues to build out its C-Suite, as well, recently hiring Pankaj Dugar, a former Google and Databricks exec, as its SVP of go-to-market and GM of North America. It’ll certainly need the money, given the capital-intensive nature of developing large language models. According to The Information, OpenAI spent $540 million last year creating ChatGPT. And AI21 Labs’ own research pegs the expenses for training a text-generating model with 1.5 billion parameters (i.e. variables that the model uses to generate and analyze text) at as much as $1.6 million. For reference, the predecessor to AI21 Labs’ Jurassic-2 model, Jurassic-1, contained 178 billion parameters. That’s not accounting for hosting costs to serve the models. OpenAI was at one point reportedly paying up to $700,000 a day to keep the infrastructure hosting ChatGPT up and running. Back-of-the-napkin math pegs the cost of running a model the size of GPT-3, and older OpenAI-developed model, at $87,000 per year on a service like AWS. AWS counts AI21 Labs as a partner, so it’s not clear if there’s some sort of volume discounting in play. But I’d wager to say that it’s not insignificant overhead. “We’ve focused on growing responsibly, allowing us to continue to grow and expand, bringing our customers the most up-to-date, trustworthy AI possible,” Shoham said. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  Powered by WordPress VIP