The OG Blink-182 line-up is back, and according to Tom DeLonge, the trio are working on the "best album" they've made to date 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Tom DeLonge has declared that Blink-182's forthcoming new album is the best work they've ever done. Last year, the pop punk rockers' most revered line-up reformed, comprised of DeLonge, Mark Hoppus and Travis Barker, with a new single and news of a huge world tour set to kick off in 2023. Part of their huge plans include the release of a brand new album, the trio's first offering since 2011's Neighbourhoods, which will reportedly arrive sometime this year. Blink-182 last released an album in 2019 with Nine, featuring Matt Skiba in replacement of DeLonge. Speaking of the forthcoming new project, the guitarist recently shared via Instagram that it's the greatest work they've ever created. “This is the best album we’ve ever made,” he wrote in a post. “Buckle up. I’m personally tripping and so proud of what we have created TOGETHER. As one unified force of fun, eternal youth, and most of all, close friends.” The day after the release of new single Edging on October 15, DeLonge said that the record “has some of the most progressive, and elevated music we‘ve ever had. In honesty, I am holding my breath for you to hear these other songs. Edging is fun, and a perfect way to remind you of the fun again. But just you fucking wait.” Barker's drum tech Daniel Jensen also declared last month: “I’ve been in the studio all week working on the new blink-182 album w/ Travis Barker and it’s coming out awesome! I really think Blink fans are going to love it.” The latest news, features and interviews direct to your inbox, from the global home of alternative music. Although no official release date for the album has been announced, DeLonge  promised on his Instagram back in December that it would arrive "over the next few months". Meanwhile, his bandmates have been sharing teaser posts of song lyrics and instrumental parts on their own social media accounts. Check out the content below: A post shared by Official Tom DeLonge (@tomdelonge) A photo posted by on  A post shared by Official Tom DeLonge (@tomdelonge) A photo posted by on  A post shared by travisbarker (@travisbarker) A photo posted by on  A post shared by Mark Hoppus (@markhoppus) A photo posted by on  A post shared by Daniel Jensen (@ocdrumdevil) A photo posted by on  The new @blink182 album has some of the most progressive, and elevated music we‘be ever had. In honesty, I am holding my breath for you to hear these other songs. Edging is fun, and a perfect way to remind u of the fun again. But just u fucking wait. 😈October 15, 2022 The full list of dates is as follows:

LATIN AMERICA

Mar 11: Tijuana Imperial GNP (Festival), MEX
Mar 14: Lima Estadio San Marcos, PER
Mar 17-19: Buenos Aires, Lollapalooza Argentina, ARG
Mar 17-19: Santiago, Lollapalooza Chile, CHI
Mar 21-22: Asuncion Venue TBA, PAR
Mar 23-26: Bogotá Estereo Picnic, COL
Mar 24-26: São Paulo, Lollapalooza Brasil, BRA
Mar 28: Mexico City Palacio de los Deportes, MEX
Apr 1-2 – Monterrey Venue TBA, MEX NORTH AMERICA

May 04: St. Paul Xcel Energy Center, MN
May 06: Chicago United Center, IL
May 09: Detroit Little Caesars Arena, MI
May 11: Toronto Scotiabank Arena, ON
May 12: Montreal Bell Centre, QC
May 16: Cleveland Rocket Mortgage Fieldhouse, OH
May 17: Pittsburgh PPG Paints Arena, PA
May 19: New York Madison Square Garden, NY
May 20: Belmont Park UBS Arena, NY
May 21: Boston TD Garden, MA
May 23: Washington, DC Capital One Arena
May 24: Brooklyn Barclays Center, NY
May 26: Baltimore Baltimore Arena, MD
May 27: Hershey Hersheypark Stadium, PA
May 28: Atlantic City Adjacent Music Festival, NJ

Jun 14:Phoenix Footprint Center, AZ
Jun 16: Los Angeles Bank of California Stadium, CA
Jun 20: San Diego Pechanga Arena, CA
Jun 22: San Jose SAP Center, CA
Jun 23: Sacramento Golden 1 Center, CA
Jun 25: Seattle Climate Pledge Arena, WA
Jun 27: Vancouver Rogers Arena, BC
Jun 29: Edmonton Rogers Place, AB
Jun 30: Calgary Scotiabank Saddledome, AB

Jul 03: Denver Ball Arena, CO
Jul 05: Dallas American Airlines Center, TX
Jul 07: Austin Moody Center, TX
Jul 08: Houston Toyota Center, TX
Jul 10: Tampa Amalie Arena, FL
Jul 11: Ft. Lauderdale FLA Live Arena, FL
Jul 13: Atlanta State Farm Arena, GA
Jul 14: Charlotte Spectrum Center, NC
Jul 16: Nashville Bridgestone Arena, TN

EUROPE

Sep 02: Glasgow OVO Hydro, UK
Sep 04: Belfast SSE Arena, UK
Sep 05: Dublin 3Arena, IRE
Sep 08: Antwerp Sportpaleis, BEL
Sep 09: Cologne Lanxess Arena, GER}
Sep 12: Copenhagen Royal Arena, DEN
Sep 13: Stockholm Avicii Arena, SWE
Sep 14: Oslo Spektrum, NOR
Sep 16: Berlin Mercedes-Benz Arena, GER
Sep 17: Hamburg Barclays Arena, GER
Sep 19: Prague O2 Arena, CZE
Sep 20: Vienna Stadthalle, AUS
Oct 02: Lisbon, Portugal – Altice Arena, POR
Oct 03: Madrid Wizink Centre, SPA
Oct 04: Barcelona Palau Sant Jordi, SPA
Oct 06: Bologna Unipol Arena, ITA
Oct 08: Amsterdam, iggo Dome, HOL
Oct 09: Paris Accor Arena, FRA
Oct 11: London The O2, UK
Oct 14: Birmingham Utilita Arena, UK
Oct 15: Manchester AO Arena, UK  Oct 21: Las Vegas, When We Were Young Festival, NV AUSTRALIA/NEW ZEALAND

Feb 09: Perth RAC Arena, AUS
Feb 11: Adelaide Entertainment Centre, AUS
Feb 13: Melbourne Rod Laver Arena, AUS
Feb 16: Sydney Qudos Bank Arena, AUS
Feb 19: Brisbane Entertainment Centre, AUS
Feb 23: Auckland Spark Arena, NZ
Feb 26: Christchurch Christchurch Arena, NZ Liz works on keeping the Louder sites up to date with the latest news from the world of rock and metal. Prior to joining Louder as a full time staff writer, she completed a Diploma with the National Council for the Training of Journalists and received a First Class Honours Degree in Popular Music Journalism. She enjoys writing about anything from neo-glam rock to stoner, doom and progressive metal, and loves celebrating women in music. “People go, ‘How can you write another Free Bird?’ And I go, ‘You can’t.’ Nobody could ever fill Ronnie’s shoes”: The unlikely second coming of Lynyrd Skynyrd “We knew Chris Barnes had to go. We phoned him on the road and said, ‘Dude, you’re out.’ It was as simple as that”: How Cannibal Corpse made 90s death metal classic Vile and ended up in the US charts “When we recorded Tears Don’t Fall, I passed out. On the take, you can hear a scream, and then this dropping body”: How Bullet For My Valentine stepped up to metal’s big league with The Poison Louder is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 