Clear to partly cloudy. Low 84F. Winds SW at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 84F. Winds SW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 8:25 pm August 19, 2024   Sally Robinson Finally, the heat dome seems to be cooling off. It has been a long, hard time for all. Perhaps it is not a good time to discuss burns in children, but if one burn can be prevented it is worth sweating over. Burns are the fifth leading cause of preventable deaths in children. (Don’t forget that guns are number one.) A recent study by Moser, WJ et al in Burns discussed a study of scald burns in a Chicago burn center over a ten-year period. Scalds are burns from hot liquids or steam. Scald burns are the most common type of burn and 95 percent of these burns were caused by running water. These are serious burns sometimes requiring skin grafts and years of follow-up treatment. The average length of stay in the hospital was 8 days. In some ways, it seems almost impossible that running water could cause such terrible injuries. It would seem that running tap water is a long way from the boiling water for coffee or soup. Interestingly a serious burn can occur at 140 degrees in 3 seconds. At 120 degrees it takes about 10 minutes. It is very easy with the lever type of spigot to fall against the lever and have it turn to the hottest temperature possible. This could happen at any age and three seconds pass quickly. Feeling pain occurs when the degree of heat reaches 106 to 109 degrees. A “hot bath” should not be hotter than 105 degrees and should be closer to 90 degrees. There is no evidence that hot baths clean better than comfortable baths. For a parent to test the heat it is recommended that they use the inside of their wrist, not their hand. It is interesting to learn that in 54 percent of the cases, the caregiver did not test the water and in another 39 percent of the children were unattended. However, in 2 percent of the cases, the caregiver did test the water and were present at the time of the burn. This finding showed that even when the caregiver checked the temperature of the water and was present for the duration of the bath some children still had bathing scald burns. It is strongly suggested that hot water heaters be regulated so that the maximum hot temperature cannot be over 120 degrees. There are varying types of water heaters and varying local codes. Your plumber or the source of all information, YouTube, can show you how to check or regulate the temperature. Remember to keep hot drinks and pot handles out of reach of children and never leave children alone in the bathroom or kitchen. Any hot substance can scald a child and it can happen quicker than the blink of an eye. Sally Robinson is a clinical professor of pediatrics at UTMB Children’s Hospital. This column isn’t intended to replace the advice of your child’s physician.  Sally Robinson     
Log In
 Internet forum rules ...
Real names required. No pseudonyms or partial
names allowed. Stand behind what you post.
Keep it clean. Don't use obscene, vulgar,
lewd, racist or sexually oriented language.
Don't threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be truthful. Don’t knowingly lie about anyone or
anything.
Be nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be brief. Keep posts to 250 words or less.
Edit yourself. No more than three posts per thread
and stay on topic. Do not link to sites outside galvnews.com.
Be aware. All posts are property of The Daily News
and may be republished in print.
Be proactive. Use the "Report" link on
each comment to let us know of rule violations.
 Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to read or post comments. Discover the Galveston seawall, an engineering marvel protecting the city from storms and hurricanes. Learn how this iconic barrier, completed in 1963, stands 17 feet high and 16 feet wide at the base, with 40,000 pounds of concrete per inch.  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Start your morning with the top headlines each day. Receive email alerts anytime there is breaking news or a severe weather alert. Get the latest local and national sports headlines delivered to your inbox every morning. Plan your fishing trips with Capt. Joe Kent's Reel Report every evening. Receive Laura Elder's Biz Buzz direct to your inbox every Sunday. Receive the daily weather forecast and the weekly outlook in your inbox each morning. Receive an email notification each time resident weather expert Stan Blazyk writes a new article. ICYMI is a weekly newsletter highlighting stories from the past week. Wether they were the most important, most read or most talked about we want to make sure you read them. ICYMI also features select historical content. Receive the most recent obituaries every afternoon. Get a link to the latest e-Edition delivered to your inbox each morning. Receive updates on the latest issues of Coast Monthly. Receive the latest Dear Abby column in your inbox each morning. Receive special offers from The Daily News and select partners including discounts, contests and more. Galveston Unscripted Video Series  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.