Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  The U.K. formally laid out plans to regulate the cryptocurrency industry, with the government looking to rein in some of the reckless business practices that emerged over the past year and contributed to the demise of FTX. In a widely-anticipated industry consultation launched Tuesday, the government proposed a number of measures aimed at bringing regulation of crypto asset businesses in line with that of traditional financial firms. Among the proposals unveiled Tuesday was a move that would strengthen rules targeting financial intermediaries and custodians that store crypto on behalf of clients. A big theme that emerged in 2022 was the rise of risky loans made between multiple crypto firms and a lack of due diligence done on the counterparties involved in those transactions. The U.K. proposals would crack down on such activities, seeking to establish a "robust world-first regime strengthening rules around the lending of cryptoassets, whilst enhancing consumer protection and the operational resilience of firms," according to a statement out late Tuesday. "We remain steadfast in our commitment to grow the economy and enable technological change and innovation — and this includes cryptoasset technology," Andrew Griffith, economic secretary to the Treasury, said in a statement. "But we must also protect consumers who are embracing this new technology — ensuring robust, transparent, and fair standards." The collapse of FTX has added urgency to global regulators' attempts to govern the regulation-averse crypto space. The European Union and the U.S. have already made proposals of their own to improve consumer protections in crypto. In a Dec. 2 speech, Griffith said that "recent events in the crypto market reinforce the case for timely, clear and effective regulation." The implosion of FTX, which allegedly used customer money to make risky loans and trades, set off a chain reaction of bankruptcies for digital asset lending firms with exposure to the crypto giant, including BlockFi and Digital Currency Group's Genesis lending arm. The proposals unveiled Tuesday would also enforce tougher transparency requirements on crypto exchanges to ensure they publish relevant disclosure documents and set out clear admission requirements for trading digital tokens. This self-driving car technology stock could pop by more than 400%, say three analysts Looking for alternatives to Nvidia? Futurum CEO names 3 he's bullish on for 2024 Bernstein tech analyst's best idea for 2024 is to short Tesla Morgan Stanley picks 'alpha' opportunities in China tech - giving one 52% upside Another measure would relax strict rules on crypto advertisements, allowing firms with Financial Conduct Authority registration to issue their own promotions while the broader crypto regime is being introduced. The regulatory move comes as crypto firms in both the U.K. and beyond are feeling the chill of a deep downturn known as "crypto winter." Companies are seeing their valuations slashed by investors after the blowup of FTX and a slump in crypto prices, while the industry has also been plagued by numerous rounds of layoffs. Last week, London-based crypto exchange Luno cut 35% of its workforce in a move impacting over 330 roles. Regulation takes time. It will likely take years before the measures are approved by Parliament. The Financial Services and Markets Bill, which would recognize crypto assets as regulated products, is still making its way through Parliament. The law aims to make the country's financial sector more competitive post-Brexit. Nonetheless, even the simple display of being seen as taking action is important, according to some industry executives. "Having a regulatory roadmap or regulatory direction of travel is going to be super useful for the UK in terms of being a crypto hub," Julian Sawyer, CEO of Standard Chartered-backed crypto custody services firm Zodia Custody, told CNBC Tuesday in an interview. Sawyer, who formerly co-founded British fintech firm Starling and led international expansion for crypto exchange Gemini, said it was also important to ensure "general alignment between global markets in terms of the approach to digital assets." He noted the European Union has gotten ahead of the game with its Markets in Crypto-Assets law, which is expected to come into force in 2024. Bitcoin, which has stealthily climbed about 40% since the start of 2023, was trading flat Wednesday at a price of $23,103. The U.K. wants to become a leader in crypto and blockchain technology on the global stage. However, those ambitions, which were first signposted in April 2022, have been beset by a chaotic revolving door of governments. Rishi Sunak, who took the reins as U.K. leader in October 2022, is seen by market players as a crypto-friendly prime minister, having previously said he's "determined" to make the U.K. "the jurisdiction of choice for crypto and blockchain technology." As London looks to compete with EU financial hubs after Brexit, crypto could be a way for it to improve its chances, industry insiders said previously. "There is an opportunity to provide clarity to the industry and allow it to play its role in achieving their mandate to encourage businesses to invest, to innovate, and to create jobs in the U.K.," Jordan Wain, U.K. public policy lead at Chainalysis, told CNBC in November. Sunak's administration will consult on plans to introduce a new set of rules tailored to crypto companies, with a view to closing the consultation by Apr. 30, after which it will formulate more detailed rules. WATCH: Has crypto winter thawed out? Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by