This is the second book in the series of Böhm-Bawerk translations by Scottish economist William Smart, originally published in 1891. It is, as the title suggests, the positive theory of capital. It begins with full front matter by Smart himself, and then we come to book one: The Nature and Conception of Capital. Six sections follow: Capital as an Instrument of Production, Value, Price, Present and Future, The Source of Interest, The Rate of Interest, and finally a rich and detailed index. It follows the author’s legendary method of systematically thinking and clear exposition to present what is called today the time-preference theory of interest, that is to say, that the passage of time and the preference for the present over the future are the necessary and sufficient conditions for the emergence of interest. Capital is the correlary to that notion: all production takes place over time. This is the first time this translation has been in print in longer than half a century. No content found Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk was a leading member of the Austrian School of economics. His major contributions were in the areas of capital and interest and helped pave the way for modern interest theory. His criticisms of Marx’s economics and exploitation theory have not been refuted to this day. NY: G.E. Stechert, 1930 The Mises Institute is a non-profit organization that exists to promote teaching and research in the Austrian School of economics, individual freedom, honest history, and international peace, in the tradition of Ludwig von Mises and Murray N. Rothbard.  Non-political, non-partisan, and non-PC, we advocate a radical shift in the intellectual climate, away from statism and toward a private property order. We believe that our foundational ideas are of permanent value, and oppose all efforts at compromise, sellout, and amalgamation of these ideas with fashionable political, cultural, and social doctrines inimical to their spirit. 
    Website powered by Mises Institute donors
   
    Mises Institute is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent the law allows. Tax ID# 52-1263436
  