You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Apr 24, 2024, 2:26pm Have a question for Kevin Payne or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Kevin Payne, Jenn Underwood, Kim Porter and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Capital One is a full-service bank offering competitive rates and no-fee accounts to fit most banking needs. While it has branches and Capital One Cafés in select locations, Capital One is primarily considered an online bank. Along with popular consumer banking options, Capital One offers credit cards, auto loans, and business and commercial solutions. This makes it a worthy choice for customers who want the low fees and high rates associated with online banks while still having access to the services you’d find at a traditional bank. This review focuses on personal banking solutions offered by Capital One. Account details and annual percentage yields (APYs) are current as of April 24, 2024. 
                        Why you can trust Forbes Advisor
                     Our editors are committed to bringing you unbiased ratings and information. Our editorial content is not influenced by advertisers. We use data-driven methodologies to evaluate financial products and companies, so all are measured equally. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and the banking methodology for the ratings below. Capital One 360 banking offers the high interest rates of an online challenger bank plus the convenience of a broad ATM network and branches for in-person deposits and payments. You’ll find a simplified checking and savings portfolio, but the account offerings are competitive compared to most banks. Capital One also provides CDs, auto loans and a wide variety of credit cards with no foreign transaction fees. For your checking needs, there is the Capital One 360 Checking Account. Each account comes with a 360 Checking Mastercard debit card, a complimentary first checkbook, no minimum opening deposit and no ongoing balance requirements. Capital One also offers three overdraft options for its 360 Checking accounts: If that’s not enough, Capital One checking accounts also earn 0.10% APY on all balance tiers—lower than what some of the best checking accounts offer, but still above the national average, according to the FDIC. Customers can set up online bill pay with their Capital One checking account, too. The Capital One 360 Performance Savings Account is a high-yield savings account that earns 4.25% APY. As with other Capital One accounts, there is no minimum opening deposit and no minimum balance requirement. This no-fee savings account is a great place to keep your emergency fund. It’s also a top savings account to help you meet other savings goals, like a family vacation or your child’s college education. Customers can set up automatic transfers to maximize their savings efforts. A 360 Performance Savings account is a good complement to a 360 Checking account. Another banking option through Capital One is a certificate of deposit, or CD. If you have funds that you don’t need access to right away, opening a CD is a great way to grow your savings over time. Capital One Certificates of Deposit are available with terms ranging from six months to five years. Rates vary depending on the term lengths but are competitive with the best CD rates. Here are the current CD terms and rates available through Capital One. The APYs increase the longer you’re willing to commit your money. Capital One offers some of the best CD rates on the market. Capital One CDs have no minimum opening balances. Interest accrues daily on the CDs and is credited monthly. Customers can choose how they receive interest disbursements: monthly, annually or at the end of the term. Disbursements can also be transferred to other Capital One accounts or external bank accounts. There are penalties for withdrawing your CD funds early. For 12-month CDs and less, the penalty is three months of interest. CDs longer than 12 months have a penalty of six months of interest. There are no partial withdrawals available with Capital One CDs. Parents looking for excellent banking options for their kids should check out the Capital One MONEY Teen Checking account. It’s a joint account that both teens and parents can access online and through the mobile app. It also comes with a free debit card, which can be used for purchases and at ATMs across the country. Although it’s called a teen checking account, it’s available to any kid 8 years old and older. It carries no monthly fees and has no minimum opening deposit or minimum balance requirements. MONEY Teen checking accounts earn interest, too, with 0.10% APY. Once your child turns 18 years old, they can open a 360 Checking account and transfer over their teen checking account funds. Another option for children is the Capital One Kids Savings Account. Accounts can be opened in a parent’s name or both the parent and child’s names. A savings account also can be linked to other Capital One accounts to allow transfers. While both parents and kids can access the savings account, only parents can perform more significant banking tasks, like transfers. Withdrawals, which include internal transfers, are limited to six a month. Kids Savings accounts earn 2.50% APY, have no monthly fees, no minimum opening deposit requirements and no minimum balances. To help kids learn to save, Capital One offers features like automatic savings plans and financial goal setting. Kids and parents can use the mobile app or online access to track goal progress along the way. Kids Savings accounts are automatically converted into 360 Savings accounts once a child turns 18 years old. The Capital One mobile app is highly rated, earning high ratings on the App Store and on Google Play. It truly delivers as an all-in-one mobile banking solution. Beyond access to all of your Capital One accounts, the app features a host of tools designed to make banking easier on the go. Some of the tools include: Another way to stay connected while on the go is through Eno, your Capital One assistant. Eno assists customers by providing alerts and account insights. It works behind the scenes to spot suspicious account activity. Eno also provides virtual card numbers to make online shopping more secure. Alerts are available through text, notifications and emails. While Capital One checking and savings accounts have no monthly fees, there are other standard banking fees you may be responsible for. The Capital One 360 checking account is a truly no-fee account for everyday use. It doesn’t charge monthly maintenance fees, overdraft fees or nonsufficient fund fees (NSF). If you need to send a domestic wire transfer, the cost is $30. Capital One doesn’t charge overdraft fees. Instead, transactions that may overdraw your checking account are declined or covered by a free savings account transfer or a no-fee overdraft on approved transactions. Unlike some debit cards, there are no foreign transaction fees when you use your 360 Checking debit card overseas. In-network ATM withdrawals are free for 360 Checking customers. This network includes 70,000+ fee-free Capital One, MoneyPass and Allpoint ATMs nationwide. This also includes ATMs in certain Target, Walgreens and CVS stores. Out-of-network ATM withdrawals may incur a fee of $2 or more. 
 People who are looking for an all-in-one personal banking solution should consider Capital One 360 Banking. It offers versatile accounts to fit most needs, including children’s accounts, individual retirement accounts and CDs to pair with its savings and checking offerings. Custodial account options make Capital One a top choice for family banking, too, creating long-term connections with customers. While it does have branches in some states, access is mostly online and through the mobile app at this time. Capital One Cafés are a unique customer experience available in some cities. They are basically Peet’s Coffee shops combined with a relaxing banking environment, where people can do everyday banking and get “money coaching.” But it’s hard to imagine these cafés becoming a regular sight in smaller towns. If you live or work near a Capital One branch or Café and like the option of banking in person or online, Capital One is a solid banking choice. If you like the personal touch of a local bank branch, most people will need to turn to other banks instead. When choosing a bank, it’s important to take note of what’s important to you and find a solution that fits those needs. Capital One offers fewer checking account options than Chase Bank. But with no minimum balance requirements, overdraft fees or monthly service fees, Capital One is far more customer-friendly. Both banks offer comparable checking features, but Capital One’s 360 Checking pays a higher interest rate on checking balances. Capital One 360 Savings also outperforms Chase’s savings accounts. Capital One pays a much higher interest rate and requires no minimum balance or monthly fees. You could actually lose money with a Chase savings account due to its negligible interest and potential fees. You’ll also earn significantly more interest on Capital One’s CDs. Plus, Capital One lets you open a conventional CD for any amount, as opposed to the  minimum opening balance required for Chase Bank Certificates of Deposit. You’ll find fewer CD terms available with Capital One, but given the better interest rates, this may not be an issue for you. For parents considering a Capital One bank account for their children, checking and savings accounts are available to children 8 and over. Both types of accounts earn interest, and Capital One offers parental controls you can use to monitor your kid’s activity. Chase offers a wider variety of youth checking accounts, including joint accounts for kids as young as 6 and individual accounts for individuals as young as 17. However, Chase doesn’t offer youth savings accounts and doesn’t pay interest on youth checking accounts. Capital One also finishes above Bank of America for checking options. While both banks’ accounts have similar features, you’ll likely pay fewer fees with Capital One, and you’ll earn significantly more interest. And with Capital One 360 online banking, you won’t miss out on digital features. Bank of America can’t compete with Capital One 360 in terms of savings accounts either. Both banks offer automated savings options, but Capital One’s interest rates are significantly higher, and there’s nearly no chance of fees. If you’re shopping for CDs, Capital One is again the winner with competitive interest rates and no opening balance requirement. However, Capital One doesn’t offer IRA CDs, so if this is a product you want, Bank of America could meet your needs. Bank of America doesn’t offer a designated youth savings account, but its student checking account is a decent option for anyone under 25. On the other hand, anyone age 8 or older is eligible for a joint Capital One 360 bank account. And it may be a wiser option to choose Capital One youth checking and savings because those accounts earn attractive interest rates. Discover® Bank and Capital One are pretty evenly matched in terms of banking options. Neither charges overdraft or monthly fees, and both allow early access to your direct deposits. Discover’s debit card or Discover® Cashback Debit Checking may give Discover banking a slight edge, it currently offers 1% cash back on up to $3,000 in debit card purchases each month. See website for details. However, Discover doesn’t let you deposit cash, which may be a challenge for many account holders. Capital One makes it easy to deposit cash at local branches and select ATMs. Both Capital One and Discover pay competitive interest rates on savings accounts and charge minimal fees for regular account usage. Discover also offers a money market account, but the interest rate is lower than on its savings option. Capital One doesn’t offer IRA CDs or IRA savings accounts, but Discover offers IRA CDs with competitive rates that outperform even Discover’s IRA savings. Discover doesn’t offer a youth account option, so for anyone under 18, Capital One is the clear choice. Capital One is a solid choice for anyone looking for a range of different no-fee, high-APY banking products. It won the No. 1 spot on J.D. Power’s Customer Satisfaction report in 2022​​—and has won the top spot for the past three years running. It’s worth noting the customer complaints on sites like Trustpilot and the Better Business Bureau (BBB), however, most of them are regarding the bank’s credit card products. Yes, Capital One is FDIC-insured (FDIC certificate No. 33954). Each depositor qualifies for up to $250,000 of coverage per account ownership type. Capital One employs several security measures to ensure the safety of customer accounts and personal information. These include SSL encryption, fraud protection, debit card locking features and more. Capital One did have a security breach in 2019 involving credit card accounts. The issue was resolved quickly. No, there are no money market accounts available through Capital One. Capital One Cafés are coffee shops where you can also do your banking. The Cafés offer a different kind of in-person banking experience in a more comfortable environment, where people can have coffee, use free Wi-Fi, do their brick-and-mortar banking transactions and also talk with “money coaches” who can help answer questions to make decisions about their finances. Get the Forbes Advisor newsletter for helpful tips, news, product reviews and offers from a name you can trust.