If you’re interested in transferable credit card miles and solid cash-back rewards, we recommend checking out TPG’s top picks for the best Capital One credit cards. Capital One offers cardholders many benefits, including several ways to earn cash back and miles across its credit card portfolio. You can even transfer miles from select cards to 15-plus transfer partners — most of which offer a 1:1 transfer ratio. Because Capital One offers so many flexible options for cardholders — ranging from cards with no annual fee to premium cards for frequent jet-setters and ones that offer generous cash-back rewards in varying categories — you’re bound to find a solid option that suits your spending habits. Below, review our curated selection of the best Capital One cards from our partners. When it comes to simplicity and strong rewards, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a solid choice for most travelers. You’ll earn 2 miles per dollar on every purchase with no bonus categories to memorize, making it an ideal card for those with busy lives. Read our full review of the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card. If you can maximize the $300 credit for bookings through Capital One Travel, the Venture X’s annual fee effectively comes down to $95, the same annual fee pegged to the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card (see rates and fees). Add in a 10,000-mile bonus every account anniversary (worth $185, according to TPG valuations) and lounge access, and the card may become the strongest option out there for a lot of travelers. Read our full review of the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card. If you feel like paying an annual fee negates your will to learn about travel rewards, the Capital One VentureOne is the perfect place to begin. With no annual fee and a simple 1.25 miles per dollar rate on all purchases, you’ll earn miles that can be used for travel purchases or transferred to Capital One’s 15+ airline and hotel partners. Read our full review of the Capital One VentureOne Rewards Credit Card. The Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card is a decent option for those in need of a straightforward cash back card. However, there are other options that offer more flexibility to redeem your rewards. Read our full review of the Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card. The Capital One SavorOne is a great cash back credit card for beginners looking for a solid rewards structure and no annual fee. Dining, entertainment and groceries are high-value bonus categories, and it’s rare for a card to hit all three. Read our full review of the Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card. The Capital One Venture X business card has all the Capital One Venture X Reward Credit Card has to offer and more. It offers an incredible welcome bonus and requires an equally impressive spend to qualify. In addition, the card comes with premium travel perks like annual travel credit and lounge access. Read our full review of the Capital One Venture X Business card. The Capital Spark Cash Plus is a great cash back card for larger businesses with high spending. It allows business owners to earn unlimited 2% cash back on every purchase, and Capital One will refund the card’s annual fee if the business meets a minimum spend of $150,000 annually. Read our full review of the Capital One Spark Cash Plus credit card. The Capital One Spark Miles for Business offers a simple way to earn rewards on every business purchase, no matter the category. Those miles can then be easily redeemed for travel purchases or by transferring to partners. Read our full review of the Capital One Spark Miles for Business. When it comes to simplicity and strong rewards, the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card is a solid choice for most travelers. You’ll earn 2 miles per dollar on every purchase with no bonus categories to memorize.  Whether you’re a frequent traveler or someone who takes just a few trips a year, this card is ideal for anyone who wants to easily earn miles on every purchase, which can then be redeemed for travel rewards. “The Capital One Venture is a great card that can add value to pretty much anyone's wallet. I use it to earn 2 miles per dollar on the purchases that fall outside of my other cards' bonus categories. The annual fee is low, Capital One miles are easy to redeem, and the card does come with a few nice perks — including TSA PreCheck/Global Entry application fee reimbursement.” — Madison Blancaflor, senior content operations editor The Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card card lets you earn bonus points in multiple categories, including 2 points per dollar on travel purchases and 3 points on dining. Plus, the Chase Sapphire Preferred also has the same $95 annual fee as the Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card (see rates and fees). As one of the best premium travel rewards cards on the market, the Capital One Venture X Credit Card offers valuable benefits such as lounge access, a $300 annual credit for bookings through Capital One Travel, and 2 miles per dollar spent on all purchases.  This rewards card offers lucrative travel benefits and high earning rates of 10 Capital One miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel and 5 miles on flights booked through the portal. Since this card rewards travelers, frequent jet-setters will benefit the most from using this credit card. “With an annual fee that is less than other premium cards (see rates and fees), the Capital One Venture X card is my favorite travel credit card. The card comes with an annual $300 Capital One Travel portal credit, which I use to book flights. That effectively brings the annual fee down to $95 per year. Cardholders enjoy a Priority Pass Select membership. Authorized users — you get several at no cost — enjoy their own Priority Pass Select membership and Hertz President's Circle status. I use my Venture X card to earn 2 miles per dollar in spending categories where most cards would only accrue 1 mile (e.g., auto maintenance, pharmacies, medical bills).” — Kyle Olsen, former points and miles reporter Upon enrollment, accessible through the Capital One website or mobile app, eligible cardholders will remain at upgraded status level through December 31, 2024. Please note, enrolling through the normal Hertz Gold Plus Rewards enrollment process (e.g. at Hertz.com) will not automatically detect a cardholder as being eligible for the program and cardholders will not be automatically upgraded to the applicable status tier. Additional terms apply. Though the Chase Sapphire Reserve® has a higher annual fee, this credit card offers cardholders a chance to earn bonus points on travel and dining purchases. Plus, Chase Ultimate Rewards points are worth a bit more than Capital One miles, according to TPG’s valuations.  If paying an annual fee and keeping track of bonus category spending negate your will to learn more about travel rewards, the Capital One VentureOne is the perfect place to begin. With no annual fee (see rates and fees) and a simple rate of 1.25 miles per dollar on all purchases, you’ll earn miles that can be used for travel purchases or transferred to Capital One’s 15-plus travel partners.  Since this card offers an earning rate of 1.25 miles on every dollar, this is a solid credit card option for beginners who want to ease into the world of travel rewards. You can earn bonus miles with each purchase and don’t have to worry about paying a high annual fee.  “I wanted a credit card that earns Capital One miles without an annual fee, and this is a winner. It doesn’t have the bells and whistles of some other cards, but I’m happy earning 1.25 miles per dollar on all purchases without paying a fee to keep this card year after year. I’ll never cancel this card.” — Ryan Smith, former credit cards writer If you value cash back over reward points, the Chase Freedom Flex® card offers 5% cash back on select bonus categories and travel purchased through Chase Travel℠. Cardholders will also receive a nice sign-up bonus and pay no annual fee.  The Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card has no annual fee (see rates and fees) and no limit on how much cash back you can earn. This is a good card for those wanting to immediately benefit from cash-back rewards, which will never expire. The Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card is a decent option for those in need of a straightforward cash-back card for everyday purchases. With no bonus categories, it’s a great beginner-friendly credit card. Cardholders will earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase. With no annual fee and a ​​one-time $200 cash bonus — after you spend $500 on purchases within three months from account opening — this card can be beneficial for those looking for a rewards credit card and who value earning cash back over Capital One miles. The Citi Double Cash® Card (see rates and fees) offers more cash-back rewards with an earning rate of 2% on every purchase (1% when you make a purchase and another 1% when you pay it off). This card also has no annual fee, which makes it a great alternative to the Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card. The Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card offers bonus cash-back rewards on everyday purchases, such as dining, entertainment and groceries. With no annual fee, it’s a great beginner cash-back card (see rates and fees). The Capital One SavorOne is a good option for beginners because it offers a solid rewards structure with no annual fee.  If you love going out to eat or find yourself buying weekly groceries, this rewards card will allow you to earn unlimited 3% cash back on those purchases. With a $0 annual fee, this is a great everyday card for everyone to have in their wallets. The Blue Cash Everyday® Card from American Express is a great option for people who want to earn cash-back rewards on popular categories, including U.S. supermarkets and U.S. gas stations. Plus, this cash-back card has no annual fee (see rates and fees). Capital One's Venture X Business credit card offers a ton of earning potential for a modest annual fee when it comes to premium cards. Airport lounge access, an annual travel credit, 10,000 bonus miles each cardmember anniversary and the ability to add authorized users at no added cost to the main cardholder are just a few reasons we love the Venture X Business. The Venture X Business card is great for businesses that have higher operating costs. Additionally, this card is also solid for business owners and employees who travel frequently thanks to an earning structure that features 10 miles per dollar on hotels and rental cars and 5 miles per dollar on flights when any of these three are booked via Capital One Travel. The Venture X Business card features 15-plus hotel and airline partners, meaning cardholders have several options when it comes to choosing who they want to travel with. Plus, with the Venture X Business, you can opt to redeem earned miles for statement credits, gift cards or cash back (but you will typically find that transferring miles offers the most value). If you're in the market for a premium travel credit card but do not want a business card, consider the Capital One Venture X personal card, as it features many of the same benefits as the Venture X Business but requires a lower spend to earn the welcome bonus. The Capital One Spark Cash Plus is a business cash-back card that offers 2% on all purchases with no foreign transaction fees (see rates and fees). Additionally, you can add employee cards for free and earn 2% cash back from their purchases as well. If your business spends more than $7,500 annually and you don’t want to keep up with multiple bonus categories, this is the perfect card for you. If you are a business owner, this card will earn you unlimited 2% cash back on every purchase — with no limits or category restrictions. With the Ink Business Unlimited® Credit Card, you can earn unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase made for your business. Similarly to the Spark Cash Plus card, you can earn rewards through employee cards at no additional cost. Plus, this card gives you the ability to set individual spending limits on each card. The Capital One Spark Miles for Business offers a simple way to earn rewards on every business purchase, no matter the category. Those miles can then be easily redeemed for travel purchases or by transferring to partners. Since you’ll earn 2 miles per dollar on every purchase, this is a great business card to earn rewards without having to juggle multiple bonus categories. Plus, employee cards are free, and they’ll also earn 2 miles on all spending. With a high earning rate of 2 miles per dollar on every purchase, plus the ability to earn rewards on employee cards — which are free — this card makes it easy to stack up miles on every purchase made. The Blue Business® Plus Credit Card from American Express will allow you to earn 2 points on everyday purchases, but only on up to $50,000 per calendar year, then 1 point per dollar after. Since you earn bonus points on all purchases (up to the yearly spending cap), it is a great business card option.  Whether you are jet-setting across the Atlantic or making a trip to your local grocery store, Capital One’s extensive credit card portfolio offers customers the chance to earn rewards that can be most beneficial for their lifestyle. For example, to offset the cost of weekly groceries for your family of four, you should consider an unlimited cash-back card.  However, if you want to earn and redeem miles on travel, a card that offers lucrative travel benefits, such as a $300 statement credit and bonus miles on hotels and rental cars, may be more beneficial to you. Though some Capital One cards favor travel rewards, others prioritize spending on everyday purchases (i.e., groceries and dining). It’s important to understand the specific reward rates offered on your card to maximize your earning potential.  For example, the Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card will earn you unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase, while the Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card will earn you 1% cash back on all purchases. However, the SavorOne also earns 3% cash back on dining, entertainment and popular streaming services and at grocery stores (excluding Walmart® and Target®). Therefore, if you are regularly dining out and have monthly subscriptions to Netflix and Hulu, the SavorOne card may be more beneficial in helping you maximize your rewards. If you’re in good financial standing and are able to pay off your credit card bill each month, you can benefit from having multiple rewards cards. If you’re like most people, you probably take a vacation (or two) every year, as well as spend money on everyday expenses such as groceries and streaming services. For example, the SavorOne Cash Rewards card offers solid cash-back rewards on select purchases, while the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card gives you a high earning rate on travel booked through Capital One Travel plus an array of other perks. Therefore, with both of these cards in your wallet, you can maximize your reward-earning potential.  Capital One is an American financial institution that offers a variety of services, including credit cards, banking, savings accounts and loans. With Capital One’s extensive portfolio of credit cards, consumers are able to choose the card that best fits their needs. Whether you are interested in cash-back rewards with a low annual fee or a high-earning travel credit card to redeem for flights, hotels and more, Capital One’s expansive network can benefit all cardholders.  This type of rewards card may have a high earning rate for Capital One miles that you can redeem in a variety of travel-related ways (i.e., airfare, hotels or car rentals). Through the use of travel rewards cards, you can save money when booking your next trip by redeeming miles or transferring your miles to a travel partner, mostly at a 1:1 ratio. Not all cash-back cards are created equal, and while some will offer you a flat rate on all purchases, other cards will give you a higher earning rate when using them on specific items, such as groceries and streaming services. Whether this is your first credit card or you would like to build your credit score, a beginner-friendly card with a low annual fee and several reward options can help teach you financial responsibility while also helping you set and achieve realistic goals.  Student cards can help build your credit score, which is critical when it comes time to apply for a car loan, take out a mortgage or even sign a lease for an apartment. In addition, a cash-back card can help you earn rewards on student expenses such as books, groceries and everyday purchases. You don’t necessarily need to own a business to have this type of credit card. Whether you own your own company, work as a freelancer or have a small side hustle, this type of credit card can help you keep your personal and business spending separate.  Business credit cards can offer lucrative cash back or miles on your day-to-day expenses. Plus, depending on the card you choose, there are opportunities to earn bonus rewards on business-related purchases, such as travel, office supplies and more. Being a Capital One cardholder comes with several benefits and perks. These range from a variety of transfer partners when booking travel and solid earning rates across the issuer's card portfolio. Here are other perks you get when you carry a Capital One card in your wallet. Capital One miles are earned on every purchase made with the Venture X, Venture, VentureOne and Spark Miles credit cards. You can redeem your miles at a fixed value or transfer them to airline and hotel partners. This means your rewards are flexible — they can cover standard airline and hotel charges but also nontraditional travel purchases such as helicopter rides or cruises (neither of which are typically easily covered by points and miles). TPG currently values Capital One miles at 1.85 cents apiece when you leverage the issuer’s transfer partners. This can offer some terrific value for your rewards. Capital One offers cardholders the ability to earn statement credits and bonus miles by shopping via its online portal at thousands of retailers. If you book travel through Capital One Travel, you can earn additional bonus miles using eligible cards. Plus, cardholders won’t pay foreign transaction fees when traveling. Capital One credit cards offer $0 fraud liability: “If your card is lost or stolen, you will not be responsible for unauthorized charges,” per the company’s website. Additionally, the financial institution offers fraud detection alerts via personalized emails or texts if the company detects an unexpected charge or mistake. Cardholders will surely eat up this perk: With Capital One Dining, you will receive access to hard-to-get reservations at Michelin-starred restaurants, as well as tickets to special culinary events. Additionally, cardholders will receive VIP access to sporting events, concerts and more. Plus, through Capital One Entertainment, cardholders can receive additional on-site perks. Venture, Venture X and Venture X Business cardholders will receive up to $100 credit for Global Entry or TSA PreCheck application fees after you use your card to pay for your membership. If you’re already enrolled in one of these programs, you can even use the credit for a friend or family member. Redemptions on Capital One cards are pretty simple. You can redeem your Savor or Quicksilver cash back as a check, set up automatic redemptions at a specific time or at specific cash thresholds, or redeem it for statement credits or gift cards. With the Venture X, Venture, Venture X Business or Spark Miles cards, you can use your miles to receive a statement credit for eligible travel purchases charged to your card. You can also book a flight, car rental or hotel through the Capital One Travel portal (or call if you’d rather book by phone) and use your miles to pay for it. For any of these redemption options, your miles are worth 1 cent apiece. Additionally, you can transfer your Venture or Spark miles to airline or hotel partners in increments of 1,000 Capital One miles and then use the partner program to book a hotel stay or flight. Here is a quick rundown of the loyalty programs you can transfer miles to with Capital One: It’s worth noting that the time it takes for your miles to transfer varies from partner to partner. Credit cards can make or break your travel experience which is why choosing the best card for your travel style is a very important but personal decision. Our readers share the card that has made the biggest impact on their travel and dining experience below.  Note: Reader-submitted responses have not been edited, reviewed or approved by the issuers nor reflect TPG’s opinions of these cards. Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card  “Been to 85 countries and 50 states. I’ve tried about every card along the way. My favorite… Capital One Venture X. Terrific for earning miles… and (by far) the best and most flexible options for redeeming miles.” - Brad Ball via a TPG Social Media post “Capital One Venture X. Benefits that will truly be used. Just spent 3 weeks in Europe. Used priority pass for lounge access in about 6 locations. The Europe lounges were great. Also, the Hertz President’s Circle upgrade is fantastic. Booked a small compact car and used my upgrade for an Audi SUV. We received about $700-$800 worth of value in just a few weeks.” - Ed Burke via a TPG Social Media post   **Upon enrollment, accessible through the Capital One website or mobile app, eligible cardholders will remain at the upgraded status level through December 31, 2024. Please note, enrolling through the normal Hertz Gold Plus Rewards enrollment process (e.g., at Hertz.com) will not automatically detect a cardholder as being eligible for the program, and cardholders will not be automatically upgraded to the applicable status tier. Additional terms apply. Capital One SavorOne Cash Rewards Credit Card “Right now I love the 10X on Uber Eats and the free Uber One membership on Savor One.* I do hate how it is supposed to sunset in November, I hope this gets extended!” - Will Linden via a TPG Social Media post *Through November 14, 2024. Capital One has focused on providing customers a good value in terms of earning and redeeming miles or cash-back rewards. Capital One cards are versatile and flexible. Therefore, whether you’re an individual or a business or looking to earn miles or cash back, Capital One has a card that can help you achieve your travel goals. While some Capital One credit cards, like the Capital One Venture X Rewards Card, may require an “excellent” (700 or above) credit score, other cards, like the Capital One SavorOne Student Cash Rewards Credit Card, may require a “fair” (580-669) credit score. Luckily, Capital One offers an online preapproval tool — with no harm to your credit — to let you find out which cards you are approved for. There is a limit of two Capital One credit cards per person. However, the Capital One Platinum Secured Credit Card and Capital One’s cobranded cards are not included in the limit. First, closing a credit card may negatively affect your credit score. However, if you wish to proceed with canceling your Capital One credit card because you either are no longer using the card or the rewards are not beneficial to your lifestyle, Capital One recommends doing the following:  The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.