Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark Podcast (hallmark): Play in new window | Download (Duration: 25:21 — 23.2MB) | Embed  Subscribe! Apple Podcasts | Spotify | RSS | More Megan and Wendy review the Hallmark Hall of Fame movie “The Beach House” from 2018. This family-drama stars Andie MacDowell, Minka Kelly, and Chad Michael Murrary. This movie drew a 6.5/10 rating from IMDb users and is considered a fan favorite. Girls Gone Hallmark will review Hallmark favorites all summer long! See the calendar below so you can watch along Email the show and let us know which older Hallmark Channel movie you would like Girls Gone Hallmark to review! Email: [email protected] Join our Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook Group! Tons of great people – just like you – who love Hallmark movies. We’re talking new movies, favorite movies, actors, Hallmark gossip, and so much more. Free to join, so click the link below or search “Girls Gone Hallmark” in Facebook Groups. Don’t miss out on: Girls Gone Hallmark – A Group for Hallmark Movie Fans Related: Listen to our review of “The Way Home” episode 1 Based on feedback from the awesome Girls Gone Hallmark community, Megan and Wendy will review older Hallmark movies as requested by listeners! Most, if not all, of the following movies are available on Hallmark Movies Now.  Hi, we’re Megan and Wendy! Join us for Hallmark movie reviews every Tuesday and Thursday! We review the new Hallmark Original movies, Hallmark Mysteries, Countdown to Christmas movies, and fan-favorite Hallmark movies – all year long. You can expect fun, a few laughs, lots of questions and – as always – we ask ‘Did You See That?’ Want more Megan and Wendy? Find us on Patreon! New episodes, four times a month, where we cover everyday life, pop culture, and more!  

				Read More A New Year’s ResolutionContinue
 
 

				Read More Crown the King of Hallmark – A Dudes of Hallmark BracketContinue
 
 

				Read More LGBTQ+ Hallmark MoviesContinue
 
 

				Read More The Wedding VeilContinue
 
 

				Read More Signed, Sealed, Delivered: Lost Without YouContinue
 
 

				Read More To All a Good NightContinue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark