Big changes are happening at Bloglovin', the blog discovery platform serving influencers and their followers. Today Bloglovin' and their subsequent influencer marketing arm, Activate by Bloglovin', announced that their former vice president of strategy and business development, Kamiu Lee, has been promoted to CEO. She is spearheading their full-scale rebrand to Activate, an influencer marketing agency merging human strategy, technology and data innovation on the company’s proprietary self-serve influencer marketing platform as well as the launch of their full-service influencer management suite, Activate Studio. This growth was supplemented with additional investments from Northzone, a technology investment firm with investments in Spotify, Avito, FuboTV and Playdots. I spoke with Lee for an exclusive interview about her path to CEO and Bloglovin's evolution to Activate.  Kamiu Lee, Activate's new CEO.  Elana Lyn Gross: How did you end up at Activate? What was your career path? Kamiu Lee: By a bit of random chance. I started my career in investment banking. For five years, I worked with companies that were looking to acquire other companies or raise equity capital. It was fantastic training. In working with companies from a variety of industries, I increasingly became drawn to industries that were emerging and yet to be defined — and thought digital media and e-commerce to be especially interesting. Luckily enough, I got to work for a few companies in those very industries, Refinery29, Rent the Runway and Ralph Lauren among them. Talk about an abrupt culture change, I went from the world of mergers and acquisitions to the world of content and commerce, learning about pageviews, conversion rates, affiliates and emerging social media channels. Then one day, I got a call about a little Swedish company called Bloglovin' that had just moved to New York. They were a small team of engineers and product folks that had raised some capital, weren't sure how they would monetize, and needed a generic 'business person' to help figure out and build the business side. I was already familiar with Bloglovin' from my banking days when I would peruse fashion and beauty blogs in my downtime and see the "Follow me on Bloglovin,'" widgets on their sites. As a risk-adverse ex-banker, MBA-type, it was definitely a leap of faith! My first week with Bloglovin' involved Google-translating their Swedish financials and setting up a job board so we could start hiring. I continue to enjoy making sense of emerging, yet-to-be-defined industries. That is where true opportunity lies. While I essentially 'fell' into influencer marketing, it has been incredible to see this influencer ecosystem develop and flourish before my eyes over the last four years. Our goal with Activate is to make sense of this ecosystem. We do this by building trust between influencers and brands, providing transparency and efficiency on everything from impressions to pricing and fostering truly collaborative and innovative brand-influencer partnerships. Gross: What is a workday like? Please walk me through a day! Lee: I wake up around 6 AM and catch up on the news, Slack and emails over coffee at home. I like to get any quick email and Slack responses out of the way and put together a to-do list for the day on the way to the office. Most key external meetings are scheduled as breakfasts or drinks to avoid breaking up the day, so two to three days a week I will have a breakfast meeting before I am in the office around 9:30 AM. Once in the office, every day is different — from meeting with client partners or investors to technology or data partners, to folks across the organization in data and technology, studio (our team of influencer strategists), brand partnerships and operations and finance. I try to balance my time between supporting internal and external initiatives, as it is important that I keep a very close eye on how brands and influencers continue to evolve, as well as ensuring the team is 100% aligned on and executing our strategy. From a time management perspective, I try to stack my meetings so I can have at least a couple of blocks of hours each week to dive deep into an area of the company that may need more support. I am always all ears for more time management ideas! Gross: Congratulations on being named CEO today. What are your new responsibilities as CEO of Activate? Lee: Thank you! In transitioning into this role over the last couple of weeks, there has been a significant change in how I spend my time. Much more of my time is now spent on organizational and people-related stuff — finding ways to foster more communication between teams, ensuring cross-functional alignment on the 'big' things we are going after in the coming months and spending time with each team and individual to understand what gets them excited and how they can best spend their time. As a technology and services company, our key resource is human capital (we don't own machinery or inventory) so I want to ensure that we are taking care of that as an organization. In my 'downtime,' I like to think about moments where the team can celebrate wins (big and small) together. I am also there to support every part of the company— from jumping into client meetings to mediating any disagreements or confusion between teams to helping out with our marketing efforts. If an issue continues to come up again and again, I like to take some time to think about what changes or processes can help mitigate it in the future. We are very much a small, lean organization, and everyone (including me) has the attitude of all hands on deck. Finally, I am spending more time thinking beyond the company, about the industry, where it is going and where we fit in. By thinking ahead and building a perspective outside of the team from client and industry feedback, my primary goals is to ensure that we are progressing fast enough while positioning and differentiating ourselves strategically. Gross: Bloglovin' is re-branding as Activate and with the rebrand, Activate will also launch Activate Studio, a full-service, white glove influencer management suite. What is the strategy for the new company and what can users expect? Lee: We are fusing data and technology with human creativity and strategy. (I know this sounds a little cheesy, but really that is what we are doing!) I talk about this in-depth on our blog, Influence. Our Activate Studio team is a dedicated team of individuals that focus on ideation, execution and research and insights — while leveraging our proprietary technology and data platform to continually build more and more efficiency into the process. To give you an idea of just how efficient, despite the fact that we have worked with over 75,000 influencers and hundreds of brands in the last 12 months, publishing over 6,500 pieces of content each month, we currently have a team of three people that drives the execution of these programs! Where the studio team shines is continuing to leverage learnings from our execution and from the influencers themselves to continue to push the needle in building more innovative, forward-thinking partnerships between brands and influencers. The deep partnership between our studio and technology teams — we like to say internally that studio is our technology team's number one client — means that as influencer strategies are tested and proven out, any work that requires repetition is continually built into the platform. While we do currently have over 40% of our businesses that are already self-serve clients, advertisers and agencies that have built robust in-house influencer marketing teams to leverage our platform on a self-serve basis, we have found that a majority of our spend today comes from brands that either lack the bandwidth or the specific expertise in influencer marketing to really be self-serve. This is compounded by the fact that the influencer industry continues to change. Instagram seems to launch a new feature every other month like polls, swipe up and highlights and influencers continue to find new ways to build better content that engages their audience. Our studio team strives to bridge this gap, and partners with our technology and data team to build the influencer marketing platform of the future. Gross: How will Activate Studio be working with influencers and advertisers differently in the future? Lee: From both a product and partnership standpoint, we are consistently building ways for advertisers to better identify, manage and measure sets of influencers to work with. We've learned that an influencer that works well for one brand may be completely ineffective for another brand, and even more so, may work for certain goals like storytelling, awareness, generating qualified traffic or sales, and not for others. An influencer can also become more or less effective over time. By providing transparency to the brands and influencers on this, along with the rest of our overall workflow and measurement tools, we are allowing advertisers to actually scale. This, in turn, provides more opportunity for influencers, particularly the smaller influencers, beyond the top 1%. Ultimately, our role in this ecosystem is to build trust between influencers and brands, provide transparency and efficiency on everything from impressions to pricing and foster truly collaborative and innovative partnerships. Gross: What are the most important characteristics someone needs to have to be successful in your role? Lee: Curiosity: Asking questions and listening carefully is really how you can incrementally improve existing processes or products, or arrive at interesting, new ideas. If you aren't truly curious, you end up just communicating your view over and over again, with very little learning. Empathy: Seeing and caring about other peoples' points of view requires empathy. Understanding what is important to each constituent allows you to really connect the dots and get to a solution that maximizes value for everyone involved — this is how great partnerships are formed! Note: Being empathetic by no means equals being a pushover! Patience (and impatience): You need true patience to consistently over-communicate to get everyone aligned and do the un-sexy work of building behind-the-scenes processes. I find that people who have been a teacher or teaching assistant in the past really internalize this. On the flip side, you need to be impatient to achieve goals and challenge yourself and your team to move faster and try harder. Honesty: Everyone can sniff out the bull: Your team, your clients and your investors.  Being transparent and building trust is important if you are to build something sustainable. Gross: What's the biggest lesson you learned at work and how did you learn it? Lee: This isn't revolutionary, but it is something that did take me some time to really internalize. Ideas are a dime a dozen. It almost doesn't matter whose idea it is (and this means removing your own self and ego from the situation) oftentimes multiple people end up coming up with the same idea anyway. It is all about the execution. Execution comes from being really thoughtful about putting together a plan and then just working really hard to make the plan happen! A great idea with terrible execution means nothing and can even cause people to believe that it was all just a 'bad' idea! Gross: What is one thing that you wish you had known when you were starting out your career? Lee: There are three things I wish I knew! Career paths are not linear — especially today. There have been moments where I put so much pressure on myself, feeling as though I wasn't moving in the 'right direction,' or that I was 'wasting my time.' But sometimes you need to take a detour or even a few steps back to end up in the right direction again. If you're listening and learning along the way, the time is not wasted, and therefore it's not really a detour or step backward. Take the time to understand yourself, what excites you and what is really important to you. This is so important as there won't always be constant external motivators like money and praise along your path and you really need to be able to self-motivate. What makes you happy may also change over time, I have found myself going through an 'introspection phase' every few years so I can be personally aligned with how I am spending my time. Finally, take joy in doing. Focus on the process, rather than the result. You can happen on a great result from one-off luck, but if you actually have fun building a great process, that is repeatable luck that you create for yourself. Gross: What is the best advice you've ever received? Lee: It's often not a zero-sum game. There is value in approaching most situations by first figuring out what your counterpart's goals and strengths are, and then finding ways to maximize the combined outcome by putting your heads together. It's openness to the possibilities, rather than a defensive stance, that creates real opportunities. Gross: What is your career advice for other young professional women? Lee: Support and build relationships with one another! Our head of Activate Studio, Morgan Kaye, joined the company two and a half years ago and I distinctly remember her going out of her way to be so friendly, humble and supportive, and over the years we have learned so much from each other — not to mention we've had a lot more fun this way. We have each gotten so much more out of our relationship.  Build each other up rather than tear each other down! Reach out to others for help and advice. I've learned so much from conversations with mentors, colleagues and peers. Sometimes it’s just about getting different perspectives to help you create an informed view, other times it is actually about knowing where you are weak and seeking help to balance that out. Pay it forward when others reach out to you for the same. 