Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark Fans on the family drama Ride want to know if Hallmark Channel is going to renew the series for a second season. So we must ask: will there be a season 2 of Ride on Hallmark? Since there is no official word from Hallmark’s camp, we’re going to share some information that might help you come to your own conclusion. The Writers Guild of America (WGA) have been on strike since May 2, 2023. Since the strike started, writers have stopped working on television and movie scripts. No new scripts means no new television shows or movies. When the WGA went on strike in 2007 it lasted 14 weeks which resulted in delays, shortened seasons, and even series cancelations. We also saw a huge uptick in unscripted reality television. While writers continue to strike, Hallmark is probably in no hurry to green light Ride for its second season. We got real nerdy over here and made a chart based on the ratings complied by Show Buzz Daily. You can see that Ride pulled in pretty great numbers on premiere night following the season finale of The Way Home. Ratings dipped into week two and three and then increased nicely on week four. This pattern continued through week nine (results for finale night on 5/28 have not yet been reported). Related Podcast Episode: The Way Home Recap – Episode 1 Ride has mixed reviews on IMDb. Now, we don’t take IMDb reviews that seriously in these parts because it’s usually people who just want to complain about Hallmark’s progressive take these days.  I am actually surprised by the reviews I did read on IMDb as there was no mention of Tuff McMurray’s sexuality. Instead most reviews mentioned the slow pace, the lack of action, and criticism of the writing. In the Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook group, many stopped watching after episode three as the show simply wasn’t keeping their interest. Join the conversation in the Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook Group! We’ll be keeping a close eye on Hallmark Channel renewals and will keep this post update. Based on feedback from the awesome Girls Gone Hallmark community, Megan and Wendy will review older Hallmark movies as requested by listeners! Most, if not all, of the following movies are available on Hallmark Movies Now.  Hi, we’re Megan and Wendy! Join us for Hallmark movie reviews every Tuesday and Thursday! We review the new Hallmark Original movies, Hallmark Mysteries, Countdown to Christmas movies, and fan-favorite Hallmark movies – all year long. You can expect fun, a few laughs, lots of questions and – as always – we ask ‘Did You See That?’ Want more Megan and Wendy? Find us on Patreon! New episodes, four times a month, where we cover everyday life, pop culture, and more! 

				Read More GirlfriendshipContinue
 
 

				Read More Hallmark Movies to Watch During the FallContinue
 
 

				Read More Signed, Sealed, Delivered: One in a MillionContinue
 
 

				Read More #XMASContinue
 
 

				Read More Checkin’ It TwiceContinue
 
 

				Read More Haunted Harmony Mysteries: Murder in G MajorContinue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark