London Unattached - Luxury London Lifestyle Luxury London Lifestyle for Metropolitan Singles and Couples - food, travel, restaurant reviews - London Unattached August 25, 2023 by Grace Richardson Leave a Comment  Last Updated on March 7, 2024  This bank holiday weekend, don’t shy away from West London if the Notting Hill Carnival isn’t for you. Just south of the river, Battersea Park is hosting an inaugural concert series from Saturday to Monday.  Each afternoon and evening will feature a different musical genre: a celebration of musicals on Saturday night, followed by a classical medley on Sunday and a jazzy end to the weekend on Monday. Battersea Park in Concert promises to be the perfect place to settle down with a picnic and listen to some wonderful live music whilst watching the sunset. The weekend’s festivities kick off on Saturday with A Night at the Musicals. The Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra and the London Concert Chorus will be conducted by Richard Balcombe, along with stars from the West End productions of Phantom of the Opera (Bradley Jaden and Kelly Mathieson), We Will Rock You (Alex Gaumond) and more. Expect a riotous good time with music from Les Mis, Wicked, Oklahoma, Cats, Mamma Mia and more. The 60-piece Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra are back on Sunday for Proms in the Park. This time, conducted by Pete Harrison, featuring well-known classic excerpts from Vivaldi’s Four Seasons, Tchaikovsky’s Swan Lake, Puccini’s La Boheme and Elgar’s Pomp & Circumstance. Vocalists Milly Forrest (who has previously performed at the Grange, Garsington and Royal Opera House) and tenor David Webb (previously Opera Holland Park and the Grange) are sure to be delightful. The night really will finish with a bang: a fireworks display will accompany the music after the sun has gone down. British soul singer Gabrielle and double MOBO award-winning saxophonist Yolanda Brown lead the bill for the final concert on Monday. Gabrielle will be performing as part of her 30-year anniversary tour for her hit single Dreams. Alongside these leading ladies will be the formidable Ronnie Scott’s All Stars, the house band of London’s most famous jazz club. Also performing are Das Brass, a vibrant and eclectic brass band and London-based jazz pianist Asa Martinson. Bring your own picnic, buy food from the various on-site vendors or pre-book a hamper from The Luxury Picnic Co. with charcuterie, fine cheeses, desserts and South African wines from Protea. For those who don’t fancy sitting on the ground, the Golden Circle Seats (available on Saturday and Sunday) provide the best seat in the house. With something for every musical and culinary appetite, this weekend Battersea Park in concert is a great place to while away the last of the summer weather with friends and something to drink and nibble on. Battersea Park in Concert Saturday 26th – Monday 28th August 2023 Battersea Park, London, SW11 4NJ   Filed Under: Events, Music, Outdoor Tagged With: Battersea, music festival, Proms Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Copyright © 2024 · Magazine Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in