London Unattached - Luxury London Lifestyle Luxury London Lifestyle for Metropolitan Singles and Couples - food, travel, restaurant reviews - London Unattached August 18, 2024 by Adrian York Leave a Comment  Last Updated on August 19, 2024  Hopefully, you’re reading this on a sun-drenched beach with a mojito and a good book nearby. The summer opera season is drawing to a close – we loved Glyndebourne’s transcendental Tristan und Isolde and Garsington’s otherworldly A Midsummer Night’s Dream  ( which you can still catch as a concert performance at The Proms on 10th September) Now it’s time to think about upcoming operatic treats over the autumn and winter; so here is our indispensable guide to what’s coming up, the old, the new, the classic and the avant-garde. Table of Contents  The Royal Opera House has rebranded and is now known as the Royal Ballet & Opera. The season starts with David McVicar’s classic production of Mozart’s timeless comedy “The Marriage of Figaro” (2-15 September 2024), conducted by Julia Jones and featuring a stellar cast including Luca Micheletti and Ying Fang. (see our review). It’s a perfect choice for operatic newbies. Other highlights include Tchaikovsky’s romantic “Eugene Onegin” (24 September-14 October) for which American director Ted Huffman (4.48: Psychosis) makes his much-anticipated debut for the Royal Opera House Main Stage with a new production ‘that blurs the boundaries between memory, longing and desire’. Gordon Bintner stars in the title role, alongside Kristina Mkhitaryan’s Tatyana, Liparit Avetisyan’s Lensky and Avery Amereau making her Royal Opera debut as Olga.  Beethoven’s sole opera, “Fidelio” makes its anticipated return to the Royal Opera House’s Main Stage (9 – 26 October). Tobias Kratzer’s bold production blends the work’s revolutionary spirit with modern sensibilities and challenges audiences to consider the fine line between political passivity and culpability. Jette Parker alumna Jennifer Davis takes on the role of Leonore, while Eric Cutler reprises his performance as Florestan. I’m really looking forward to the world premiere of “Festen”  (11-27 February), based on Thomas Vinterberg’s cult Dogme film. ‘Decorum descends into chaos in this piercing new opera of trauma and complicity’. Acclaimed contemporary composer Mark-Anthony Turnage (Anna Nicole, Coraline) and librettist Lee Hall (Billy Elliott) come together with tyro director Richard Jones (La bohème, Samson et Dalila) – who used to play the piano at L’Escargot in a previous life – to adapt Thomas Vinterberg’s (The Hunt, Another Round) 1998 film. An international cast is conducted by Edward Gardner and led by the fabulous Allan Clayton, the outstanding Peter Grimes of his generation. And Wagner enthusiasts will be thrilled by “Die Walküre” (1-17 May), the second instalment of the epic Ring cycle. Gods and mortals battle it out and you can enter the battle for tickets in the New Year with booking opening on 8 January 2025. For more information about opera at the Royal Ballet & Opera follow this link.  After the trauma of the Arts Council’s ill-informed cuts, the ENO’s autumn/winter season is inevitably playing it safe. Jonathan Miller’s evocative and Brassai-influenced 2009 production of Puccini’s “La Bohème” (26 September-19 October – see our review) always hits the mark and Joe Hill-Gibbins’ bold, contemporary take on Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro”  (5-22 February) brings out the comedy in the work. If you’re in the mood for something a little more Gothic, then director and designer Isabella Bywater’s take on Benjamin Britten’s haunting “The Turn of the Screw” (11-31 October) based on the 1898 novella The Turn of the Screw by Henry James, promises ‘spine-tingling drama’.  For something lighter, Gilbert & Sullivan’s “The Pirates of Penzance” (2 December-21 February) brings swashbuckling fun to the London Coliseum. This revival is directed by Sarah Tipple and conducted by Natalie Murray Beale. G&S favourites and ENO regulars Richard Suart and John Savournin are the Major General and the Pirate King respectively. After the Xmas festivities look out for a rare performance of Thea Musgrave’s “Mary, Queen of Scots” (15-18 February). Making its ENO premiere, this critically acclaimed modern opera set 500 years ago tells the story of Mary I of Scotland attempting to secure a future for herself and her country with ‘a thrilling, atmospheric score rooted in the rough-hewn Highlands of Elizabethan times.’ For more information about opera at English National Opera follow this link. Having moved to their new home in Sheffield, ETO continue to push boundaries with Olivia Fuchs’ production of Rimsky-Korsakov’s “The Snowmaiden” (28 September and 4 October at the Hackney Empire) and Judith Weir’s “Blond Eckbert” (5 October at the Hackney Empire) – ‘a haunting tale of isolation and guilt.’ Families can enjoy “The Wellies”  (24 November at the Arts Depot), a new work by Joanna Marie Skillett and Tatty Hennessy. For more information about opera at English Touring Opera follow this link. London’s vibrant fringe scene offers unique operatic experiences. The Grimeborn Opera Festival at Arcola Theatre (14 August-28 September) presents seven diverse operas, including ‘a radical new English version of’ “La bohème” and the enticing sounding “Der Vampyr”, composed by Heinrich August Marschner, a ‘hilarious and gory feminist retelling of a nineteenth-century opera’. For more information about opera at The Grimeborn Opera Festival follow this link. Wilton’s Music Hall hosts Opera della Luna’s hilarious take on the G&S classic “The Pirates of Penzance” entitled “The Parson’s Pirates” (27-31 August) which is making its London debut after 200+ performances elsewhere. For more information about opera at Wilton’s Music Hall follow this link. For an intimate experience, the Grim’s Dyke Hotel in glorious Harrow Weald presents Gilbert and Sullivan classics in the former home of W.S. Gilbert himself. Performances include “Ruddigore” (27th October), “The Mikado” (17 November) and “Iolanthe” (15 December). For more information about opera at the Grim’s Dyke Hotel follow this link.  While Glyndebourne isn’t quite London, it’s an easy train journey.  Arts Council cuts mean there’s no Glyndebourne Touring this year, but there are still a couple of productions this autumn if you fancy venturing south.  La Traviata opens on 10th October and Il Turco in Italia follows on 12th October.  Find out more about this and the Glyndebourne winter season of concerts and activities here  With such a wealth of options, London’s opera lovers are in for a treat this season. From grand productions at the Royal Opera House to intimate performances in historic venues, there’s never been a better time to experience the power and beauty of opera in the British capital.  If you are a younger opera fan, do check out the special ticket offers (under 21s can get completely free tickets at ENO).  Whatever your age, do make the most of what looks to be a stellar season ahead. Filed Under: Events, Opera Tagged With: English National Opera, Glydebourne, opera, Royal Opera House Musician, academic and writer Adrian York is a keen observer of restaurant culture and the gastronomic scene. His spiritual home is Soho where he is mostly to be found playing the piano, propping up a bar or holding forth about politics, art and culture from behind a restaurant table with a linen napkin on his lap and a glass of champagne in his hand. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Copyright © 2024 · Magazine Pro Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in