Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark With Christmas in July in the rearview mirror, Hallmark won’t take a break! New movies and new seasons are headed your way! Mark your calendars for everything on the Hallmark Channel in August 2023.  Premieres: Saturday, July 29,  Starring: Taylor Color and Kanoa Goo We mentioned this in our July post, since it technically premieres in July. But it’s part of the Summer Nights lineup so let’s talk about it again! Once again, we’re crossing everything that this isn’t yet another Chasing Waterfalls remake, but the “conservationist” traveling to Hawaii for a wedding who gets launched into work mode has a worried. What we’re not worried about? Wowie Zowie Kanoa Goo. We bet he and Taylor Cole have fire chemistry. Premieres: Saturday, August 5 Staring: Holland Roden and Corey Cott We adored Holland Roden in Time for Him to Come Home for Christmas in 2022 (even if we thought the movie itself had some serious plotholes.) We’re looking forward to seeing her play a music exec vying to represent a hot new band. Of course the frontman of the band is her childhood sweetheart.  No official word on where this was filmed, although it is set in Outer Banks, NC. Holland Roden is currently filming in Victoria, B.C. Can Canada stand in for NC? Will it have to? We’ll find out. Premieres: Saturday, August 12 Starring: Brittany Bristow and Andrew Walker Let’s start with “filmed on location in South Africa.” Yep. This movie was written by Agnes Bristow, directed by Leif Bristow and stars their daughter Brittany Bristow. Plus, we’re never going to turn down an opportunity to see Andrew Walker. Walker plays a theme park designer on location to grab footage for a ride he’s designing. Bristow, of course, plays the scientist who is his guide.  I’m a sucker for elephants and am highly optimistic about this movie.  A post shared by AW Walker (@awalkk35) Premieres: Saturday, August 19 Starring: Alexa PenaVega and Carlos Penavega The PenaVegas are back together. Alexa plays a dental assistant who falls for a substitute teacher who helps her connect with her Mexican roots.  The synopsis goes on to say that in spite of not enjoying large parties, she goes on to celebrate with a “double quincineara.” This has silly misunderstandings written all over it to me. I hope to be proven wrong! We really love Alexa! Premieres: Saturday, August 26 Starring: Denise Boutte and Colin Lawrence When Cassandra inherits a winery, she’ll need the help of local Alec to renovate the property and maybe break down some walls in her heart. We love a small town contractor, y’all.  We’re also excited to see Lawrence get some redemption after appearing on the final Evergreen movie via iPad only! It appears that the Movies and Mysteries channel will be sticking with Friday premieres for now to leave room for When Calls the Heart to soar solo on Sundays.  Premieres: Friday, August 11 Starring: Emmanuelle Vaugier and Kavan Smith This is a sequel to the 2022 movie Big Sky River. Now that Tara and Boone are in love, they must blend their families. Things might not go as smoothly as they had hoped. Should we go back and watch the original? Let us know! A post shared by Rachel Boston (@rachelboston) Premieres: Friday, August 18 Starring: Rachel Boston and Warren Christie Y’all, the synopsis of this book sounds exactly like a book I can’t ever remember the title of! Helen’s husband asks for a divorce after dropping their daughter off at college.  Naturally she’s going to find a new love (and a new dog!) Hi! We’re Girls Gone Hallmark! Megan is a longtime fan of Hallmark’s Countdown to Christmas while Wendy only just started watching Hallmark movies in 2020. Don’t miss out on our twice weekly Hallmark movie review podcast: Tuesday Fan Favorite Hallmark movie reviews and Thursday New Hallmark movie reviews. Exclusively on the Girls Gone Hallmark podcast. Subscribe today! Join our Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook Group! Tons of great people – just like you – who love Hallmark movies. We’re talking new movies, favorite movies, actors, Hallmark gossip, and so much more. Free to join, so click the link below or search “Girls Gone Hallmark” in Facebook Groups. Don’t miss out on: Girls Gone Hallmark – A Group for Hallmark Movie Fans Our current favorite way to watch Hallmark Channel movies is via Frndly TV. This app has 40+ channels, both live and on-demand, including all three Hallmark Channels! Our favorite feature is the 72-Hour Look Back which allows you to scroll BACKWARD in the guide to watch or record anything you might have missed over the last three days.  You can start a 7-day free trial and see which channels are available here! 

				Read More A Season for FamilyContinue
 
 

				Read More My Christmas Family TreeContinue
 
 

				Read More Everyone’s Favorite Dasher: Erik AthavaleContinue
 
 

				Read More Taking a Shot at LoveContinue
 
 

				Read More A Royal Runaway RomanceContinue
 
 

				Read More The Way Home Recap S2 Ep6Continue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark