Never miss an episode! Subscribe now! Girls Gone Hallmark Reviews, News and Everything Hallmark Podcast (hallmark): Play in new window | Download (Duration: 17:47 — 16.3MB) | Embed  Subscribe! Apple Podcasts | Spotify | RSS | More Megan and Wendy review “Love on the Sidelines” in today’s podcast episode. This movie stars Emily Kinney and John Reardon, directed by Terry Ingram, and written by sister team Sandra and Judith Berg. Will this movie win hearts or leave the viewers feeling defeated? Girls Gone Hallmark is new all summer long with reviews of Hallmark fan favorites! See the calendar below so you can watch along. Email the show and let us know which older Hallmark Channel movie you would like Girls Gone Hallmark to review! Email: [email protected] Related: Listen to the Girls Gone Hallmark review of “The Wedding Cottage” Based on feedback from the awesome Girls Gone Hallmark community, Megan and Wendy will review older Hallmark movies as requested by listeners! Most, if not all, of the following movies are available on Hallmark Movies Now.  Join our Girls Gone Hallmark Facebook Group! Tons of great people – just like you – who love Hallmark movies. We’re talking new movies, favorite movies, actors, Hallmark gossip, and so much more. Free to join, so click the link below or search “Girls Gone Hallmark” in Facebook Groups. Don’t miss out on: Girls Gone Hallmark – A Group for Hallmark Movie Fans Hi, we’re Megan and Wendy! Join us for Hallmark movie reviews every Tuesday and Thursday! We review the new Hallmark Original movies, Hallmark Mysteries, Countdown to Christmas movies, and fan-favorite Hallmark movies – all year long. You can expect fun, a few laughs, lots of questions and – as always – we ask ‘Did You See That?’ Want more Megan and Wendy? Find us on Patreon! New episodes, four times a month, where we cover everyday life, pop culture, and more!  

				Read More Baby, It’s Cold InsideContinue
 
 

				Read More A Kind of MagicContinue
 
 

				Read More One Bad AppleContinue
 
 

				Read More Love, Lights, Hanukah & Christmas Comes TwiceContinue
 
 

				Read More You’re Bacon Me CrazyContinue
 
 

				Read More A Merry Scottish ChristmasContinue
 
 © 2024 Girls Gone Hallmark