Lavender and Lovage 8 July 2023 By Karen Burns-Booth 10 Comments  My recipe for School Chocolate Sponge & Chocolate Custard is a real blast from the past! It’s my version of a favourite school pudding. My recipe for School Chocolate Sponge & Chocolate Custard is a real blast from the past!  It’s my version of a favourite school dinner’s pudding. Big squares of chocolate sponge cake, always baked in a big roasting tin, were served with lashings of chocolate custard. It was the best pudding ever on a wet, windy or cold school day, and the portions were always very generous too. I’ve not shared a recipe for 24 portions (or more!) of School Chocolate Sponge & Chocolate Custard today, just 9 large squares for your dining pleasure! This is a delightfully rich and light chocolate cake and it reheats well in the microwave.  You can serve it with Pink Custard if you like, but we prefer a double chocolate whammy. The custard is unashamedly made with Bird’s Custard Powder, as I’m sure the school cooks made it, with added cocoa powder. And, as you can see from the photos, it’s a lovely glossy and shiny custard, which goes perfectly with the chocolate sponge. This keeps well too, in the an airtight tin, and it can be eaten naked (the cake that is, not you!) if you prefer. Or why not add some chocolate icing or buttercream with some hundreds and thousands, for a chocolate version of my Retro School Dinner Iced Tray Bake Cake? I have shared this in July, which is of course summer in the Northern Hemisphere, as we’ve been hit with some unseasonly cold and wet weather. But I think this is a year round pud, so please enjoy it whatever the season if you make it, and please do let me know if you enjoyed it. Karen  My recipe for School Chocolate Sponge & Chocolate Custard is a real blast from the past! It's my version of a favourite school dinner's pudding. Big squares of chocolate sponge cake, always baked in a big roasting tin, were served with lashings of chocolate custard. It was the best pudding ever on a wet, windy or cold school day, and the portions were always very generous too. I've not shared a recipe for 24 portions (or more!) of School Chocolate Sponge & Chocolate Custard today, just 9 large squares for your dining pleasure! This is a delightfully rich and light chocolate cake and it reheats well in the microwave. You can serve it with Pink Custard if you like, but we prefer a double chocolate whammy. The custard is unashamedly made with Bird's Custard Powder, as I'm sure the school cooks made it, with added cocoa powder. And, as you can see from the photos, it's a lovely glossy and shiny custard, which goes perfectly with the chocolate sponge. This keeps well too, in the an airtight tin, and it can be eaten naked (the cake that is, not you!) if you prefer. Or why not add some chocolate icing or buttercream with some hundreds and thousands, for a chocolate version of my Retro School Dinner Iced Tray Bake Cake? I have shared this in July, which is of course summer in the Northern Hemisphere, as we've been hit with some unseasonly cold and wet weather. But I rhink this is a year round pud, so please enjoy it whatever the season if you make it, and please do let me know if you enjoyed it. For a thicker custard, use 450mls (3/4 pint) of milk.Once cold, store the sponge in an airtight tin.Reheat the sponge in the microwave for future pudding servings.You can serve it with Pink Custard if you like.You can get packets of instant custard powder mixtures, make up according to the packet adding the cocoa powder before adding the boiling water. For a thicker custard, use 450mls (3/4 pint) of milk. Once cold, store the sponge in an airtight tin. Reheat the sponge in the microwave for future pudding servings. You can serve it with Pink Custard if you like. You can get packets of instant custard powder mixtures, make up according to the packet adding the cocoa powder before adding the boiling water. Filed Under: All Year Recipes, Cakes, Chocolate, Historical Recipes, Hot Puddings, Slider, Tray Bakes, Winter Recipes Tagged With: Chocolate Custard, Chocolate Sponge, Retro Recipes, School Dinners, School Pudding Plus receive my FREE 47 page eBook featuring 9 full recipes from my book! 
Sue says  9 July 2023 at 8:22 am My favourite pud made it all the time when the kids were small.
 Custard is how I make it nice and thick though 
Karen Burns-Booth says  15 July 2023 at 8:22 am I do like a thicker custard or sauce! 
Julie O'Sullivan says  9 July 2023 at 12:05 pm When I was a kid, we were allowed to choose our favourite dinner on our birthday and this was always my choice of pudding. Except  we called it chocolate pudding and chocolate sauce. It would never have been made with custard powder because I have hated that all my life!!! 
Karen Burns-Booth says  15 July 2023 at 8:21 am It’s a big favourite with lots of people! 
Daniella says  18 July 2023 at 3:01 pm Looks delicious! Can you sub normal caster sugar for golden? 
Karen Burns-Booth says  26 July 2023 at 6:03 pm Yes, absolutely! 🙂 
Ashley says  7 September 2023 at 9:05 pm A fabulous recipe which I will be trying and sharing with my kids at the weekend! A bit of nostalgia! Thanks for sharing. xxx 
Karen Burns-Booth says  8 September 2023 at 10:25 am My pleasure! I’ll be sharing more soon too, Karen 
Beth says  16 October 2023 at 1:48 pm My batter was so thick !
More like brownie batter than cake is this right? 
Karen Burns-Booth says  3 December 2023 at 8:21 am Yes! It is a thick cake batter. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ Welcome! I'm Karen; it’s lovely to see you here. I was born in South Africa, but I've lived all over the world, latterly calling North Yorkshire my home where I lived for many years before moving to SW France, although I'm now living in the Lincolnshire Wolds, a designated area of outstanding natural beauty, in an old Victorian cottage. I am a freelance food and travel writer, as well as a food stylist, and recipe developer, with a passion for art, travel, books, photography, seasonal food and especially cheese and wine. Please do get in contact with me if you have any questions about my work or commissioning me. Read More…  Born from her eponymous award winning blog this book contains 160 unique recipes, all beautifully photographed by the author. They showcase the breadth and depth of her travel. Karen has lived and travelled all over the world and has brought some of her favourite recipes, experiences, and memories to share here with her readers. Buy my Book HERE Subscribe now to receive my FREE 47 page eBook featuring 9 full recipes from my book! Copyright Lavender and Lovage © 2024 Website built by Callia WebLinocut designs by Callie Jones