Megan & Wendy Your Best Friends on the Internet Books & Entertainment Disney+ has been the go-to streaming service for all things Disney since its launch in 2019. The service offers a wide range of films, TV shows, and documentaries from brands such as Marvel, Star Wars, Pixar, and National Geographic. As we gear up for November, Disney+ has some exciting new additions in store for its subscribers. We’ll see the return of fan favorite series, plus brand new shows, movies and holiday fun.  Disney+ has something for everyone this month. So, grab some popcorn, sit back, and get ready to stream some of the most highly anticipated titles of the year. Did you know we have a podcast? Check out Approved with Megan and Wendy where we each share an item we’re currently using and loving. Never sponsored, always genuine. Since Scott Calvin and Co. made the decision to head into early retirement last year, fans have been wondering when we’ll see the return of this smash hit. We’re happy to announce that The Santa Clauses with a two-episode premiere on November 8th. After the two episode premiere, new episodes will drop weekly. There will be a total of six episodes this season of The Santa Clauses. On November 17th, we’ll see the premiere of Dashing Through the Snow. This film stars Lil Rel Howery, Chris “Ludacris” Bridges, and Teyonah Parris This family comedy brings us a social worker attempting to reunite with his estranged daughter and discover the real meaning of the holidays.  When fifth grade Andy realizes he’s on the naughty list, he enlists the help of some of his naughty buddies to bring home the presents they think they deserve! Directly from the North Pole! Season 32 of Dancing with the Stars is in full swing! (See what we did there?) New episodes can be found every Tuesday in November on Disney+. Disney is launching a season two of their docuseries, “Behind the Attraction.” This series does what the name says and takes you behind the most popular attractions at Disney Parks. Viewers will be let in on the making of the attraction and and introduce you to the cast members responsible for running them! Season two features: Pirates of the Caribbean, Big Thunder Mountain Railroad, Indiana Jones Adventure, EPCOT, Nightime Spectaculars and, everyone’s favorite, the food! Hallmark Channel Countdown to Christmas Lineup “It’s a Wonderful Lifetime” Lineup UPtv Uplifting Christmas Lineup Food Network Holiday Lineup Apple TV+ Kids and Family Holiday Lineup Hi, we’re Megan and Wendy your midlife besties! Join us on Patreon every Monday where we’re talking everyday life, pop culture, and more! You can also find us on “Girls Gone Hallmark” on Tuesdays and Thursdays where we review new and fan-favorite Hallmark movies and ask the question: Did you see that? October 19, 2023 ·    Copyright © 2024 · Glamour Theme by Restored 316