MLB When the Red Sox baseball operations staff descended on the Hotel Commonwealth near Fenway Park the third week in January, there was snow in the air, but the mood was festive — just a few days prior, the club had held a news conference to announce the signing of Rafael Devers to a club-record 10-year deal. Advertisement Present were roughly 275 Red Sox staffers from across the world: scouts from Japan, Australia and South America, remote employees from across the country, analysts, minor-league coaches and front-office decision-makers all gathered together for the franchise’s organizational meetings. At Devers’ news conference, the Sox had set up two monitors listing the names of dozens of these staffers and others in the organization, past and present, who had helped in the years-long process of taking the third baseman from a promising young teen in the Dominican Republic to a star signing a $313 million contract. To Red Sox brass, Devers’ development, on-field success and ultimately his long-term signing represented the perfect example of what happens when scouting, analytics, player development, and all other aspects of a baseball operations machine are humming in sync. The Red Sox want to do more of that, more consistently. And part of ensuring they do has been recognizing they had fallen behind in some areas, including bolstering their behind-the-scenes staff. Player success on the field starts with talent — first and foremost — but a vast complement of support staff is needed to maximize performance, whether it’s keeping players healthy on the medical or mental side, coaching them through mechanical tweaks, or analyzing data that could reveal a performance glitch unseen to the naked eye. Baseball, perhaps more than any other sport, has seen an influx of science and technology into the game over the last two decades. The game within the game has become increasingly competitive and having the tools — and people — in place to capitalize on these is one of the newest frontiers in MLB’s unending competition among franchises. And that has meant rapid growth in the Red Sox baseball operations staff and front office in recent years, partly driven by the arrival of chief baseball officer Chaim Bloom in 2019. Advertisement “I think the arms race behind the scenes is so fast and so much more intense than really is visible to the outside,” Bloom said. “Teams are competing so hard with each other on the infrastructure side because acquisition, talent identification and development, both at the minor-league level and the major leagues, is so important. It is really the difference between good and great.” The Red Sox were at the forefront of innovation when they won the World Series in 2004 and 2007 with a baseball operations staff full of future general managers and a data machine, Carmine, that helped influence their decision-making. It was a sophisticated tool that most teams didn’t possess at the time or were just beginning to explore. But reaching the top is one thing, and staying there is another. Slowly over the years, the Red Sox slipped. “When you’re successful, there can be a tendency to unintentionally become complacent or not focus enough on getting better, improving,” general manager Brian O’Halloran said. “There’s a tendency to think ‘OK we’re doing a good job’ — and people should feel good about success and their part in it — but it can make it harder to see where things need to be improved or where you could get better, even if you’re pretty good at something, and candidly, I think that happened to us.” Along with executive vice president Raquel Ferreira, O’Halloran is the longest-tenured member of the baseball operations group. Both were part of the 2004 championship front office and have lived through the ebbs and flows of the organization for more than two decades. “I think there were times early in this ownership where we were one of the more innovative teams and pushing forward in certain areas and then I think there were times in certain areas where we fell behind and didn’t realize we were falling behind,” O’Halloran said. Advertisement O’Halloran cited the growth of a more defined analytics department as one example where the Red Sox were slow to keep developing in the early 2010s. “Eventually we saw we’d fallen behind and we started to address that,” he said. “I think that accelerated with the leadership change at the end of 2019 with Chaim here and with us overseeing the department that’s been a real focus for us to continue to innovate, push, grow and add capabilities where we can get advantages.” There had been some growth before Bloom, but since his arrival, the analytics/research and development staff has been bolstered noticeably. Part of it has been to keep pace with the industry itself. As recently as 2018 there were nine people in the Red Sox R&D department. That increased to 14 at the start of 2019 when Dave Dombrowski was still president of baseball operations. By the following year, Bloom’s first year on the job, there were 16 people in R&D. The group grew to 21 people entering 2021 and by the start of 2022, there were 28 people working in R&D including additional hires in sports science and biomechanics. At the start of 2023, the R&D staff had grown to 33 people, nearly four times the size it was when the Red Sox won the World Series in 2018. That has not necessarily translated to on-field wins, but reflects a reality across the sport: Many teams are staffing up in this manner, and much of the growth in that area has been a result of keeping pace with the rest of the industry. “As there’s more access to information or specific coaching philosophies or areas in which additional personnel can help us, that’s what we targeted,” said senior VP of baseball operations Ben Crockett. “We certainly haven’t gone into it saying we need to add people. We’ve gone into it saying, ‘OK here’s a problem or opportunity, how do we be better in that area?’” The player development staff in particular has grown and changed quite a bit since Bloom’s arrival. The Red Sox recognized they could be getting more out of their players, and bolstering the infrastructure and support staff seemed like the best place to start. “Having staff and the bandwidth to support all of our players for individual plans for adjustments for the ups and downs of minor league baseball is vital to our success,” said Brian Abraham, who’s entering this third season as director of player development. Changes had been in the works but really took hold in 2021, when the group re-evaluated and assessed where the minor-league player development group stood. There was an internal idea that they weren’t challenging themselves enough to strengthen player development or not supporting their prospects as well as they could be, so they began reorganizing some roles to add oversight to some departments, created sub-departments, moved on from some people and added others. Advertisement Ahead of 2022, development coaches were added to each minor league affiliate to serve as liaisons between the analytics staff and the coaching staff then ultimately the players. Sometimes data can be misconstrued or seem intrusive when coming from the top, so the goal was to have a uniformed coach with each minor-league affiliate to receive the information and create a plan with the coaching staff to implement it if they felt it could help the player. Crockett, who’d been vice president of player development before Abraham took over in 2021, moved into the senior VP of baseball operations role, where he now works closely with Bloom, O’Halloran and assistant general managers Ferreira, Eddie Romero and Mike Groopman. Crockett’s role focuses on major league operations, but with a heavy emphasis on growing the sports performance group within the organization. Meanwhile, this winter Paul Toboni, who had been director of amateur scouting — in charge of the last three drafts — moved into a hybrid player development and amateur scouting role where he’ll work with both departments, in not only scouting but transitioning players into the Red Sox system once they’ve been drafted. Devin Pearson, who’d been assistant director of amateur scouting, is now the director and in charge of the 2023 draft. Scouting and player development groups had always worked together, but Toboni’s role will help tighten any gaps and put drafted players in a better position to transition to professional ball more seamlessly. “I think his experience as an amateur scout and of running the draft and scouting department is invaluable,” Abraham said. “Obviously those two areas, player development and amateur scouting, run pretty hand-in-hand with a lot of what we do and what they do, drafting players we feel we can help, drafting players we can develop through physical or mechanical traits or different areas we can improve upon.” The Red Sox also created more defined coordinator roles in player development with Shawn Haviland, who’d worked with the club’s minor-league pitchers for the last five years, promoted to director of minor-league pitching development while hiring Jason Ochart as director of minor-league hitting development and program design. But the Red Sox also recognized a great shift had occurred in the way players were learning, practicing and implementing baseball skills. And not all of it was taking place at major-league facilities. Over the last five years, one of the bigger changes in the game has been players seeking out their own hitting or pitching facilities in the offseason. The philosophies of instructors at these outside companies spread throughout the majors, including a focus on biomechanics and finding competitive advantages in areas like launch angle and spin rate. Driveline Baseball, which opened in 2008, is perhaps the best-known of these facilities, which also includes Cressey Sports Performance and similar individualized outlets. Advertisement “I think as an industry we started to realize a lot of players — from every organization — were looking for different things outside of what we in the industry were offering because there were needs they had that were not being met,” Bloom said. In early November, shortly after hiring Ochart, Abraham took a trip to Driveline to visit the facility and some of the Red Sox prospects working out there. Ochart came to the Red Sox from the Phillies, where he’d served for four years as a minor league hitting coordinator, but before that, he had been director of hitting at Driveline. Two other former Driveline employees also joined this winter: hitting trainer John Soteropulos, who was brought on as a roving complex hitting coach, and David Besky, who will serve as a coordinator for player development. “I think if you don’t learn what is going on in other places you become too insular,” O’Halloran said. “And all you know, is what you know. Whether that’s bringing people in from other organizations or whether that’s visiting facilities or bringing people in from facilities that are good fits for your organization, just continue learning. A lot of innovation has come from outside affiliated baseball in the last 10 years.” When the Red Sox moved their spring training facility to JetBlue Park in Fort Myers in 2012, they had aspirations of making it a year-round player development hub, not just for minor leaguers or for extended spring training, but as a place where all players in the organization could go in the winter to work out. Instead, many players were going to these private facilities. The Red Sox wanted to provide the same resources and worked to give players the full suite of opportunities they were seeking at these private shops. “I think we gradually have had more and more players here, maybe not always the full offseason, but coming earlier to spring training,” O’Halloran said. “If you come here now in late January compared to late January 10 years ago, it’s totally different.” While it’s taken years for the Red Sox to implement their aspirations for JetBlue Park, the facility has hosted a growing medical and training staff as well as a larger presence from the research and development group. The player development staff has grown the most in Fort Myers over the years, and Ochart will be based out of JetBlue, too. In an effort to understand how they can continue improving JetBlue Park as a player development hub, Abraham toured Driveline alongside Ochart. Advertisement “It’s one of those things you hear, they do this or that and Twitter provides insight, it’s like any sports facility, you go into the inner chambers or whatever it may be there’s more to it than what meets the eye on the surface level,” Abraham said. “Whether it’s the biomechanics labs or weight rooms or just the staff, to get to know the staff and how they go about their daily work and converse with the players.” With so many new people coming on board, finding space for them in cramped Fenway wasn’t always easy — but integrating them into the organization was a clear priority, and their presence and efforts have become an increasingly visible part of the daily routine. After the 2018 season, the room that had been Alex Cora’s office in the Red Sox clubhouse was converted into a mini tech lab, chock full of computer monitors, where the major-league analysts as well as coaches and players had access to the team’s in-house data system. Cora’s office moved to a bigger room across the hallway from the clubhouse. Yet analysts weren’t just cooped up in rooms at Fenway Park monitoring trends; they began to travel on the road to amateur scouting combines for the draft or to minor-league affiliates to glean in-person information for models and projections. This past winter, the Red Sox sent Dan Meyer, assistant director of baseball analytics and player evaluation, to Japan along with vice president of scouting development and integration Gus Quattlebaum to scout Masataka Yoshida. “For me, it was very important,” Quattlebaum said of having Meyer on the trip. “It’s not that common. I wouldn’t be surprised, in talking to some of my counterparts (from other MLB teams), they seemed to like the idea when they asked what he was doing here and thought it was a good idea. I thought it was important, for those of us doing our objective work on these players. It’s tough to figure this translation to the majors out, it’s blurry. Any context that we can provide the architects of our models and what we do in the backend, I thought it was important for them to see.” Quattlebaum recalled that Meyer was surprised by the higher velocity from Japanese pitchers, by the size of the ballparks, so much presence of turf and the amount of small ball played in the game. Those might seem like minor observations, but they factored into the predictive models Meyer and the R&D group worked on to project how Yoshida might fit in the majors and greatly influenced the Red Sox’s conviction in signing him to a five-year, $90 million deal. “We’ve made it a huge emphasis for our analysts to get out in the field, so to speak, to go to affiliates to interact with coaches and scouts and vice versa,” O’Halloran said. “No matter how good the information, you’re building models or making predictions whatever you’re doing analytically, it makes no difference if you can’t use it and implement it properly to affect change.” One area of emphasis as the Red Sox have retooled their player development system is focusing on what’s been successful at the major-league level. Advertisement “I think overall putting in place more scalable traits, focus on certain areas on the pitching side, position player side, defensive and baserunning side, that big leaguers do really well and then having our minor leaguers work on those from the start,” Abraham said. “It’s probably a little different than maybe how some people have thought about player development at times, working backwards, but I think understanding what makes a big leaguer, why guys are in the big leagues and have success for a long time is really vital to helping our players achieve their maximum potential.” Some changes on the player development side are starting to take hold. “I think there were a lot of great things going on when I got here,” Bloom said. “I think we’ve done a lot of things behind the scenes in the last few years that made us even better. I feel, and I think we all feel, there’s another gear in us we need to hit.” All of this growth, from player development through research and development, made the organizational meetings at the Hotel Commonwealth in January even more impactful. Since John Henry and Tom Werner took over the team in 2001, the Red Sox have held these meetings for the baseball operations department roughly every three or four years as a way to bring their international group of employees into one space. But because of the pandemic, the January meetings were the first time the entire group had been together since 2016. Spring training is often a time when many people in the organization gather and where department meetings take place on a smaller scale, but there hadn’t even been a normal spring training in three years, so there was an added newness to the gathering this year. “There are all these new people and new departments and new backgrounds and we wanted to make sure we could all get together and make sure everybody knows what the mission is here,” O’Halloran said. “What their role in it is, what the other people not around them on a daily basis in the organization, what their piece of the puzzle is, and how it all fits together.” Advertisement There were breakout sessions and the intermingling of departments. Pedro Martinez spoke and other retired players, like Dwight Evans who now works in a baseball operations advisory role, were on hand. A lot had changed since the 2016 meetings. The team had won another championship and also had a new head of baseball operations. But to those who’d been with the organization for a majority of the past two decades, the growth of their staff was among the most notable things. “The more people interact with each other, ideally in person, and that’s why the organizational meetings were so great,” O’Halloran said. “You had analysts hanging with Pedro Martinez and scouts and player development staff and biomechanists talking to scouts or whoever, and we’re all part of one team with the same collective goal to win championships and build a team that can sustain success, have young players come through the pipeline and contribute to the big-league team — and win championships.” (Photo of Bloom addressing coaches and players: Jim Davis / The Boston Globe via Getty Images) Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Jen McCaffrey  is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the Boston Red Sox. Prior to joining The Athletic, the Syracuse graduate spent four years as a Red Sox reporter for MassLive.com and three years as a sports reporter for the Cape Cod Times. Follow Jen on Twitter @jcmccaffrey