To enjoy additional benefits CONNECT WITH US Updated  - June 26, 2023 12:40 pm IST  Published - June 26, 2023 10:52 am IST - TOKYO 
Japan’s military is testing Elon Musk’s Starlink satellite internet service with an eye to adopting the technology next fiscal year. File
| Photo Credit: Reuters
 Japan's military is testing Elon Musk's Starlink satellite internet service with an eye to adopting the technology next fiscal year, the Yomiuri newspaper reported on Sunday, citing unnamed government sources. The Ministry of Defense already has access to communication satellites in geostationary orbit, but use of Starlink technology, operated by Musk's SpaceX, would add a constellation of satellites in low Earth orbit, the Yomiuri said. Countries around the world are seeking to build resilience against the risk of jamming of communications or attacks on satellites in the event of conflict. Japan's Self-Defense Forces have been testing Starlink since March with the system deployed in about 10 locations and in training, the newspaper said. Defence ministry spokespeople could not immediately be reached for comment on the report outside business hours. Starlink technology is being deployed by Ukraine on the battlefield, and Russia is attempting to block its use in the region. Musk said in October SpaceX could not afford to indefinitely fund Starlink's use in Ukraine. The U.S. Defense Department said this month it had contracted to provide Starlink services there. 
Japan

/

defence equipment
 
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
 BACK TO TOP Terms & conditions  |  Institutional Subscriber Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines  for posting your comments.  We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.