Get the latest City team news, transfer stories, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox - FREE We have more newsletters Get the latest City team news, transfer stories, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox - FREE We have more newsletters Manchester City may have seen their pursuit of Lucas Paqueta fall through this week but supporters could get a chance to see signing number three at Sheffield United on Sunday. Jeremy Doku looks set to join the Blues this week and there is hope he will be registered in time to join his new teammates at Bramall Lane. City agreed a £55.5million fee with French side Rennes on Monday, with the medical scheduled to go ahead today and personal terms all but agreed. Should everything go to plan, the 21-year-old will be a City player come Sunday and will be involved in the trip west across the A57. One person who won't be there to see him, however, is Pep Guardiola - he is in Barcelona, having undergone emergency surgery on a severe back issue. The City boss identified a number of wide options to replace the Saudi-bound Riyad Mahrez, but whittled the shortlist down to one having seen the potential on offer. Doku is by no means the finished product - and nor should he be at 21 - but has the high ceiling that Guardiola can nurture so well. ALSO READ: Jeremy Doku transfer is good news for Phil Foden Fast, direct and extremely confident, Doku is something of a rough diamond but the Belgian International has plenty to work on, particularly if he is to star under the exacting Guardiola. Goals have been a problem in the winger's career thus far, with last season's seven his highest-ever tally. "I was immediately charmed by his positive attitude," former Rennes manager Julien Stéphan said of Doku in 2021. "He is very eager to learn. He listens to a manager. He adapted very well. That’s why I kept playing him. He only struggled for a while because he couldn’t score." Those words will be hugely exciting to Guardiola, who has already shown his ability to turn good wingers into world-beaters.  City spent a little less on Raheem Sterling in 2015, but Guardiola sanctioned a £49m purchase of the then-20-year-old in the knowledge that the best was yet to come. Sterling had scored 16 goals in the previous two Premier League campaigns for Liverpool but had that raw excitement that got the Anfield crowd off its feet. He failed to reach double figures in either of his first two league campaigns in Manchester, but blew up with 18 during the 2017/2018 season. The England international could have joined Arsenal that summer but knuckled down and came out swinging. Something had changed. "I think Raheem is enjoying scoring goals," Guardiola said in November 2017. "He’s not scared, he’s not afraid to take a risk. And now he’s seeing how fun, how good it is to score goals. Now he’s more focused on that. "Mikel Arteta is working many, many hours and days after training specifically about the last action on the pitch – that control in the last moment to make the right movement in the final three or four metres. Raheem has wanted to stay there on the training pitch, to improve, to practise, to shoot at the goalkeepers. "It’s part of the mentality he needs. He knows a striker has to score goals and he has to do that if he wants to achieve the next step. You won’t survive in the high level teams in his position if you don’t score goals." Guardiola, with the help of then-assistant Arteta, coached Sterling into an efficient and deadly winger that retained all the excitement of his raw Liverpool days. The mazy dribbles and devastating bursts of pace started leading to goals and assists. He hit double figures in each of his final five campaigns at the Etihad. City worked on the parts of Sterling's game that cannot be seen or measured as easily. Decision-making was, and still is, a key aspect of Guardiola's team and the England international was drilled on when to maintain possession and when to exploit the spaces. Training was equally focused on work out of possession as well, with Sterling developing the knack of always being at the back post to get on the end of crosses - only sometimes missing from close range. The City winger found countless goals from this improvement. Doku arrives at City this week in much the same circumstances: raw and exciting, but lacking the consistent final product of an elite winger. He is widely regarded as one of the world's most exciting young prospects but needs world-class coaching to go from good to elite. Guardiola will give him that. He's done it before and has the blueprint. Manchester City wrapped up the 2023/24 season with a fourth successive Premier League title, but they missed out on another Treble with defeat in the FA Cup final and Champions League quarter-finals. It's now time for Pep Guardiola and co to turn their attention to the transfer window. Our MEN team of City experts will be on top of all the goings-on at the Etihad this summer and beyond, and you can get the latest updates and inside information to your phone by joining our new free WhatsApp community. You can also join the 40,000 (and growing!) band of Blues fans who are following our WhatsApp channel. -- We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. 