NEW YORK, May 8, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The specialty coffee shops market size is estimated to grow by USD 39.17 billion from 2022 to 2027. The market is estimated to grow at a CAGR of 7.43% during the forecast period. North America is estimated to account for 32% of the global market growth during the forecast period. The demand in the region for specialty coffee shops can be attributed to its special offering, that is the ability to customize coffee or other beverages according to customer preferences. Vendors also offer food bowls that allow customers to choose to eat one meal with one food ingredient at a time or combine all the ingredients together. The busy lifestyles of working people and students are also contributing to the growth of the market in the region. The limited time to prepare food and drinks at home leads people to opt for specialty cafes for their daily coffee and breakfast. Hence, such factors drive the regional growth during the forecast period. For Comprehensive details on the market size of historic period(2017 to 2021) and forecast period (2023-2027) - View Sample report 



 Specialty Coffee Shops Market - Vendor LandscapeThe specialty coffee shops market is fragmented; the vendors are competing with competitors and are trying to get a greater market share. The market is growing, and the chances of new entrants cannot be overlooked. The major vendors have well-established economies of scale and market presence and generally rely on positioning technological advances, and the price of the products -The report provides a full list of key vendors, their strategies, and the latest developments. Buy Now Company profiles The distribution transformers market report includes information on the product launches, sustainability, and prospects of leading vendors including Barista Coffee Co. Ltd., BLUE BOTTLE COFFEE Inc., Brew Berrys Hospitality Pvt Ltd., Caffe Nero Group Ltd., Caribou Coffee Operating Co. Inc., Coffee Beanery, Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd., Costa Ltd., Doutor Coffee Co. Ltd., Ediya Co. Ltd., Gloria Jeans Coffees International Pty Ltd., Grupo Herdez SAB de CV, Inspire Brands Inc., Keurig Green Mountain Inc., La Colombe Torrefaction Inc., Luckin Coffee Inc., McDonald Corp., MTY Food Group Inc, Restaurant Brands International Inc., and Starbucks Co. Specialty Coffee Shops Market - Market Dynamics Major Drivers & Challenges-  The increasing consumption of coffee is one of the key factors driving the growth of the global specialty coffee shops market. The growing demand for specialty coffees has led to growth opportunities for the vendors in the market. As a result, suppliers are focusing on diversifying products, introducing new flavors, and expanding brands to increase sales. Coffee consumption in developing countries such as China, India, and Brazil is also increasing at a remarkable rate. Therefore, increasing global coffee consumption is expected to drive demand for specialty coffees during the forecast period.  The fluctuating prices of coffee beans are a major challenge hindering the growth of the global specialty coffee shops market. Various factors, such as the gap between supply and demand for coffee, reduced production of green coffee, unfavorable weather conditions, and high labor costs, lead to fluctuations in the price of green coffee. The gap between supply and demand for coffee beans is getting bigger and bigger, increasing input material prices not only increases costs but also reduces profit margins of producers. Increasing market competition among suppliers leads to low-profit margins despite rising raw material costs. This factor, coupled with the need to remain competitive in the market, is leading manufacturers to experiment with low-cost alternatives such as low-quality coffee beans and instant coffee powder. In addition, raw material suppliers can price their products at competitive and differentiated rates. Therefore, volatile coffee beans prices are expected to limit the growth of the market during the forecast period.  Key Trends- The increasing popularity of coffee among Millennials is an emerging trend in the global specialty coffee shops market. Millennials tend to spend more on premium beverage brands than the rest of the population. They also want to experiment with new drinks, new brands, and new flavors. Therefore, manufacturers are trying to understand the tastes and preferences of Millennials and are targeting many offers for this generation. Millennials also tend to be more social, especially in cafes. This has led to an increase in the number of coffee shops, which has further strengthened the market. Furthermore, specialty cafes offer a variety of means to attract customers. For example, specialty cafes offer Wi-Fi and air conditioning, which can help increase sales. These factors are expected to increase the popularity of coffee as well as specialty coffee globally during the forecast period.  Technavio has identified key trends, drivers, and challenges in the market, which will help clients improve their strategies to stay ahead of their competitors. - View Sample Report Competitive Analysis The report includes competitive analysis, a proprietary tool to analyze and evaluate the position of companies based on their industry position score and market performance score. The competitive scenario categorizes companies based on various performance indicators. Some of the factors considered include the financial performance of companies over the past few years, growth strategies, product innovations, new product launches, investments, and growth in market share, among others.  Specialty Coffee Shops Market - Market Segmentation This report extensively covers market segmentation by type (independent coffee shops and chain coffee shops), distribution channel (offline and online), and geography (North America, Europe, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa).  To know more about the impact of segments on market growth, download a sample report! Subscribe to our Basic Plan billed annually at USD 5000. Technavio's SUBSCRIPTION platform Related Reports:  The roast and ground coffee market size is expected to increase by USD 27.84 billion from 2021 to 2026, and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 6.89%. Furthermore, this report extensively covers market segmentation by product (coffee pods and coffee beans/ robusta coffee/ espresso-based beverages), distribution channel (offline and online), and geography (Europe, North America, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa). The rising popularity of coffee among millennials is notably driving the roast and ground coffee market growth. The home coffee grinding machines market size is expected to increase by USD 184.81 million. from 2021 to 2026, and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 5.83%. Furthermore, this report extensively covers home coffee grinding machines market segmentation by application (automatic and others), product (electric burr grinder, electric blade grinder, and manual grinder), and geography (Europe, North America, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa). Product development and innovation are notably driving the home coffee grinding machines market growth. Specialty Coffee Shops Market Scope Report Coverage Details Base year 2022 Historic period 2017-2021 Forecast period 2023-2027 Growth momentum & CAGR Accelerate at a CAGR of 7.43% Market growth 2023-2027 USD 39.17 billion Market structure Fragmented YoY growth 2022-2023 (%) 7.08 Regional analysis North America, Europe, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa Performing market contribution North America at 32% Key countries US, China, Japan, UK, and Germany Competitive landscape Leading Vendors, Market Positioning of Vendors, Competitive Strategies, and Industry Risks Key companies profiled Barista Coffee Co. Ltd., BLUE BOTTLE COFFEE Inc., Brew Berrys Hospitality Pvt Ltd., Caffe Nero Group Ltd., Caribou Coffee Operating Co. Inc., Coffee Beanery, Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd., Costa Ltd., Doutor Coffee Co. Ltd., Ediya Co. Ltd., Gloria Jeans Coffees International Pty Ltd., Grupo Herdez SAB de CV, Inspire Brands Inc., Keurig Green Mountain Inc., La Colombe Torrefaction Inc., Luckin Coffee Inc., McDonald Corp., MTY Food Group Inc, Restaurant Brands International Inc., and Starbucks Co. Market dynamics Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers and obstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis, COVID-19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, Market condition analysis for forecast period Customization purview If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and get segments customized. Browse for Technavio's consumer-discretionary Reports  Table of Contents: 1 Executive Summary 2 Market Landscape 3 Market Sizing 4 Historic Market Size 5 Five Forces Analysis 6 Market Segmentation by Type 7 Market Segmentation by Distribution Channel 8 Customer Landscape 9 Geographic Landscape 10 Drivers, Challenges, and Trends 11 Vendor Landscape 12 Vendor Analysis 13 Appendix About Us Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focus on emerging market trends and provides actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios. Contact Technavio ResearchJesse MaidaMedia & Marketing ExecutiveUS: +1 844 364 1100UK: +44 203 893 3200Email: media@technavio.comWebsite: www.technavio.com/ 



  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/specialty-coffee-shops-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-39-17-billion-from-2022-to-2027--north-america-to-account-for-32-of-the-market-growth---technavio-301817110.html SOURCE  Technavio © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.