Growing up outside Los Angeles, coffee was a staple in my childhood home. When I was a toddler, my grandparents would offer me sips of their bitter brews during breakfast. In high school, coffee became a full-time hobby for me. In LA, I would join my friends and family every weekend to hunt for the best-iced latte or americano in the city. I brought my coffee hobby across the country when I moved to New York City last September. As a consumer, I look for some key things when I try a coffee shop for the first time. Here are eight green flags I look out for as a self-proclaimed coffee expert.  As a coffee shop customer, I've always admired a barista that can create intricate latte art. In my experience, not only does it beautify the beverage, but it also indicates that the barista was well-trained and can make a delicious cup of joe. Urth Caffe in Los Angeles makes impressive latte art. Mi Cafecito, a family-owned coffee shop in Pomona, California, near my hometown of Walnut, shares its latte art technique on its Instagram page. A typical latte is made with one to two shots of espresso, steamed milk, and topped with frothed milk. Since I prefer a strong, bitter taste to all my coffee drinks, I lean toward full-bodied dark roast espresso blends. When I order a latte at a coffee shop, I pay close attention to how many espresso shots are used in every size. There's nothing worse than ordering a large iced latte with only one shot of espresso, especially if the espresso is a medium or light roast bean, in my opinion. Poetica Coffee in Manhattan and Better Buzz in San Diego, California, has some of the strongest large iced lattes.  Cold brew, unlike iced coffee, is brewed cold throughout the coffee-making process. According to Starbucks' website, a quality cold brew should have a bolder, full-bodied flavor.  When it comes to cold brew, I'd rather drink a bold cold brew than a bright, acidic one. However, much like coffee roasts, there are a million different ways to make a "good" cold brew. Since it's based on taste preference, I appreciate it when a coffee shop has multiple options, like the popular chain Blue Bottle. Since I am a child of the internet, I'm not afraid to admit that an aesthetic Instagram reel or TikTok has inspired me to try a coffee shop before. Though a social media post doesn't indicate the quality of the coffee, I value a cafe with cute merch, pop-up events, and an aesthetically pleasing social media presence.  For me, trying a new coffee shop is such a holistic experience. Even if the coffee isn't perfect at a trendy cafe, you are guaranteed to walk away with a prettier Instagram feed.  Even though I prefer more bitter, bold coffee menu items, I respect it when coffee shops play with flavor blends. Stone Street Coffee Company in SoHo, a neighborhood in Manhattan, is one of my favorite spots in the city because of its flavored cold brew options. The rotating flavor could be anything from Irish creme to blueberry every week.  As a coffee consumer, I appreciate the attention to detail and ability to stand out in such a saturated coffee market.  To me, coffee is a communal experience. Every coffee shop experience can be elevated with the right company. Baristas that go the extra mile to ask how my day was or recommend a new menu item will always put a smile on my face. Stone Street Coffee Company and Mi Cafecito made me an instant regular with their excellent customer service. A high-quality cafe shouldn't just specialize in coffee and espresso-based drinks. In my opinion, a well-rounded cafe can make a mean chai latte or matcha latte. Coffee shops that grind their chai rather than opt for a concentrate immediately gain my respect. Similarly, cafes that use traditional ceremonial matcha powder set themselves apart.  You know you're in a cafe that cares about coffee when they serve roasted beans. For me, this indicates that the brand cares about the quality of beans enough to take the process into its own hands. Variety Coffee, a chain in New York, roasts its beans to perfection. On the opposite coast, Verve Coffee Roasters in Los Angeles sells a variety of their delicious beans in-house.  
                                Read next
                               Jump to