Coffee and tea can both cause heartburn. If you have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), you may want to reduce your intake of these beverages.  Perhaps you’re used to kick-starting your morning with a cup of coffee or winding down in the evening with a steaming mug of tea.  However, if you have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), there’s concern that coffee and tea can cause heartburn and aggravate acid reflux.  We’ve partnered with acid reflux and heartburn medication brand Gaviscon® to bring you this article about the effects of these beverages and whether you should consume them if you have GERD. Caffeine — a major component of many varieties of coffee and tea — has been identified as a possible trigger for heartburn in some people. Caffeine may trigger GERD symptoms because it can relax the lower esophageal sphincter (LES).  A 2019 study with women found that drinking coffee, tea, and soda was associated with increased risk of GERD. And drinking water instead of coffee, tea, or soda, reduced the risk. However, a different 2019 study with men found that drinking coffee or tea was not associated with reflux symptoms or erosive esophagitis (EE).  Although studies have been conflicting, If you have symptoms of GERD, limiting your consumption of caffeinated coffee and tea (and soda) may help prevent common symptoms.  The American College of Gastroenterology recommends avoiding foods and medications that may trigger GERD, and they include caffeine on that list. Gaviscon® Extra Strength Fruit Blend Antacid Tablets are formulated for heartburn, acid reflux, and GERD relief—day or night. They are designed to provide fast-acting, long-lasting relief from symptoms.* *sponsored Conventional coffee garners the most attention when it comes to limiting caffeine, which may be beneficial for other health reasons. Regular, caffeinated coffee contains far more caffeine than tea and soda.  The table below provides caffeine estimates for popular coffee types: The caffeine content can also vary by roast type. With a darker roast, there is less caffeine per bean. Light roasts, often labeled as “breakfast coffee,” often contain the most caffeine.  You might want to opt for darker roasts if you find that caffeine aggravates your symptoms. However, the symptoms of GERD from coffee may be attributable to components of coffee other than caffeine. For example, some people find that darker roasts are more acidic and may aggravate their symptoms more.  Cold brew coffee has a lower amount of caffeine and may be less acidic, which might make it a more acceptable choice for those with GERD or heartburn. The relationship between tea and GERD is similarly debated. Tea not only contains caffeine but also a variety of other components. For example, some types of herbal (noncaffeinated) teas, such as those containing spearmint and peppermint, may aggravate heartburn symptoms or GERD in some people. This can make it difficult to determine whether your acid reflux is from caffeine or something else within a particular type of tea product. You’ll want to read product labels carefully and avoid minty herbs if they tend to worsen your symptoms. Regarding caffeine content, a 2014 study found the following caffeine concentrations in tea: How a cup of tea is prepared also affects the final product. The longer the tea is steeped, the more caffeine there will be in the cup. According to a 2023 study, 20% of the U.S. adult population experience GERD symptoms. People may also have silent GERD, known as esophageal disease, with having symptoms. Whether you have symptoms or not, your doctor may suggest lifestyle treatments in addition to medication to improve the health of your esophagus. Lifestyle treatments can include avoiding certain foods that can aggravate their symptoms. For some people, heartburn symptoms may be triggered by certain foods. Certain substances can irritate the esophagus or weaken the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). A weakened lower esophageal sphincter can lead to the backward flow of stomach contents — and that causes acid reflux. Triggers can include: You might try limiting your consumption of both coffee and tea if you suffer from GERD and see if your symptoms improve. Both can relax the LES. But not every food and beverage affects individuals in the same way.  Keeping a food diary can help you isolate which foods aggravate reflux symptoms and which ones don’t. With the jury still out about caffeine’s overall effects on reflux symptoms, it can be difficult for those with GERD to know whether to avoid coffee or tea.  The lack of consensus in the scientific and medical communities about the effects of coffee versus tea on GERD symptoms suggests that knowing your personal tolerance for these beverages is your best bet.  The lifestyle changes that most experts agree can help reduce acid reflux and GERD symptoms include: While lifestyle changes can help, they may not be enough to combat all of your symptoms. You may also need over-the-counter or prescription medications to maintain control of your heartburn. Lifestyle changes, along with medications, can help lead to a better quality of life while also minimizing damage to the esophagus. Talk to a gastroenterologist regarding your GERD symptoms. They can provide recommendations that are medically geared toward your specific health situation. Share this article Heartburn typically occurs after eating. If it's happening while you're swallowing, it could be due to damage to your esophagus, a hernia, or even… Heartburn can last for two hours or more. In pregnancy, it can start as early as your first trimester and last throughout the duration of your… Ulcers and heartburn differ based on how they affect your body. They may have similar symptoms, but ulcers may cause additional symptoms. OUR BRANDS