Kourtney Kardashian is missing her leather jacket from her downtown Las Vegas “practice” wedding ceremony with Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker. Kourtney Kardashian is missing her leather jacket from her downtown Las Vegas “practice” wedding ceremony with Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker. The celeb-journalism favorite announced this unfortunate development on Instagram on Wednesday, the one-year anniversary of her ceremony with Barker at One Love Wedding Chapel. Kardashian is offering a reward for the jacket, which she says she has owned for 10 years. She has not disclosed the amount of said reward.  A post shared by Kourtney Kardashian Barker (@kourtneykardash)   Barker also wore a jacket to that ceremony, which asked the musical question, “WHAT ARE YOU STARING AT A**HOLE.” The Kardashian-Barker event, which was a kind of warm-up for the real thing, followed the 2022 Grammy Awards show at MGM Grand Garden. Kardashian’s missing jacket was news to the chapel officials. “This is the first I have heard of it,” Rev. Nature Woodall of One Love said during a phone chat Wednesday morning. “We have heard nothing from Kourtney about this.” The jacket was (and still is, presumably) covered in silver hearts. Kardashian has said her losing track of the item was the result of “too much tequila in a chapel in Las Vegas!” But the jacket is not at One Love Chapel. “She was wearing it when she walked out, we have pictures of it,” Woodall said. “She did not leave it here.” One comment on Kardashian’s IG post read, “Ohh lookie here, I found your jacket it’s over here,” to which Kardashian said, “I’m gonna need photo evidence,” with a detective emoji. And, “I’m imagining a random Vegas hobo, wearing Kourt’s leather jacket … Having absolutely no idea.” Whatever, we’re keeping an eye out for this item, everywhere in DTLV. John Katsilometes’ column runs daily in the A section. His “PodKats!” podcast can be found at reviewjournal.com/podcasts. Contact him at jkatsilometes@reviewjournal.com. Follow @johnnykats on Twitter, @JohnnyKats1 on Instagram. 

 BattleBots is developing a new concept to open in September. Suing F1 for compensation is not out of the question. Splashed with Vegas iconography, the Killers residency show is a celebration of the band’s exalted position in Las Vegas history. “DiscoShow,” a $40 million partnership with Caesars Entertainment, has opened for previews at 3535 Las Vegas Blvd. It’s been reported that Nicolas Cage is set to play NFL and broadcast legend John Madden in the biopic “Madden.” The family of the man who wore 00 will light the Al Davis Memorial Torch before the game against Dallas, and a famous dance troupe will perform at halftime. Lady Gaga joined Bruno Mars is on stage at Intuit Dome in L.A. Flavor Flav knows what time it is, as usual The Olympic-caliber rap icon says,“I know that a clock would never, ever be able to replace a bronze medal. But this is where my heart is.” The superstar musician has previously said he is bolstering his presence in Las Vegas by buying a home here and working on other projects. She will continue to wear the classic “Jubilee” costumes at Voltaire, opening Sept. 19. “Thunder From Down Under” is expanding to Nashville, opening a permanent residency that the fabled Woolworth Theatre on Sept. 26. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP