 To enjoy the CBBC website at its best you will need to have JavaScript turned on. For more help please visit the CBBC FAQ  
    This poll uses a cookie which we have classified as ‘strictly necessary’ for the duration of your online session.
    Find out more.
    BBC Terms of Use.
 With so many different Blue Peter badges to collect, let us show you what is special about each one and most importantly how you could get your hands on one! Can you get a full set? Let's start with the basics... A Blue Peter badge is a special award given to the amazing people who appear on the show. You can also earn a Blue Peter badge by applying online or by post, or by winning or being a runner-up in one of our big competitions. Applicants must be 5 to 15 years old. As well as having a cool badge to show off to your mates, your own BP badge brings with it the power to gain access to over 200 Blue Peter badge attractions around the country for free! To get into Blue Peter badge attractions for free, badge owners must also bring their badge ID card! Use our quick and easy online form to apply for your Blue Peter badge ID card now. Badge attractions include exciting days out and experiences like theme parks, zoos, gardens, castles and many more. Check out all the Blue Peter badge attractions here. Before you visit any of the attractions, grab a grown-up and read the Blue Peter Terms and Conditions. Please remember to check individual attraction websites to see opening times before setting out on your journey. There are nine different badges you can apply for... the Blue badge, the Silver badge, the Green badge, the Purple Fan Club badge, the Music badge, the Sport badge, the Book badge, and the Gold badge. You must win or be runner-up in a Blue Peter competition to get an Orange badge. Please note that the application process for each badge is different so please take time and read about each badge before applying and please note that you may only apply for one badge per application. If you've lost a badge, have a specific question, or need more information, please take a look at our frequently asked questions page. Blue badges are awarded for sending in interesting letters, stories, makes, pictures, poems, good ideas for the programme, and for having appeared on Blue Peter. Find out how to apply for your Blue badge and what to include here. The exciting new Book badge, was designed by one of the UK’s best known illustrators, Sir Quentin Blake; who you might know from bringing to life characters such as Roald Dahl's BFG and Matilda! To earn your badge, share your thoughts on a favourite book, draw a character or scene and tell us about other books and writers that you love. Find out more and apply for your Book badge now. Green badges are awarded for showing us how much you care about nature, the environment and sustainability and telling us what you do to help to protect our planet. Earn your Green badge by answering our super-sustainability questions and uploading your photos and artwork inspired by nature and the environment. Find out how to apply for your Green Badge now. The Silver badge celebrates kindness and doing something for others. You could be doing something to make a difference in your community, speaking up for what you believe in, or helping a friend. Find out how to apply for your Silver badge online or by post now. Purple Fan Club badges are awarded for joining in with the Blue Peter Fan Club and answering some questions about the show and the website. What you tell us helps us create the show that you love today, so get involved and earn a badge in the process. Find out more and apply for a Purple Fan Club badge now. The Music badge is a very special badge, designed by musical superstar Ed Sheeran. It's awarded to those who show off their passion for music by learning a new instrument, or being part of a musical performance. Find out more and apply for a Music badge today. The Sport badge is awarded for getting active and trying a sport that you have never tried before. Check out the amazing new badge designed by none other than Leah Williamson, one of the biggest female football stars on the planet! Find out more and apply for your Sport badge now. The Orange badge is rare and awarded to winners and runners up of Blue Peter competitions. To have a chance of winning one of these badges you must enter a Blue Peter competition, which only run during certain times of the year. Find out about current Blue Peter competitions and discover a wide range of past competitions and the brilliant Orange badge holders who won, or came close. The Gold badge is very rare indeed. Each year only a few Gold badges are awarded in exceptional circumstances for outstanding achievements, for example being solely responsible for saving someone's life, or showing amazing and unique bravery, courage and citizenship. Find out how to apply or nominate someone for a Gold badge. Please note you must already have at least one of the other Blue Peter badges. Occasionally, extraordinary adults can also be awarded a Gold Blue Peter badge. Recipients are high profile personalities who are considered to be role models, inspiring the nation's children. 
      
      Blue Peter badges - questions and answers
    
     
      
      Find out about Blue Peter badges
    
     
      
      How to get a Book badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Sport badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Blue badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Silver badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Green badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Purple Fan Club badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Music badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Gold badge
    
     
      
      Blue Peter Badge Card
    
     
      
      Blue Peter Competitions
    
     Blue Peter 
      
      Saturday Mash-Up Fan Chat
    
     Saturday Mash-Up! 
      
      Make your pooch a tasty ice lolly
    
     Blue Peter These comments are now closed. 
      
      How to get a Book badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Sport badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Blue badge
    
     
      
      How to get a Silver badge
    
      We’ll hide these CBeebies shows for 30 Days. Bring them back! Why did you hide them? 
                Love this? Sign in to let us know.
             

Sign in
  or
  Register

 


Something's gone wrong
   Please try again later