Javascript must be enabled to use this site. Please enable Javascript in your browser and try
                        again. Embrace your Joyful Aging Journey with Wish of a Lifetime from AARP. Help Register Login Login Hi, %{firstName}% Hi, %{firstName}% 
Games
            
 
Car rental
            
 
AARP daily Crossword Puzzle
            
 
Hotels with AARP discounts
            
 
Life Insurance
            
 
AARP Dental Insurance Plans
            
 
Travel
            
 LIMITED TIME OFFER: Labor Day Sale! Join AARP for just $9 per year with a 5-year membership and get a FREE Gift!  Get instant access to members-only products, hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine.    AARP en Español Back  Health Close Menu Wellness Conditions & Treatments Drugs & Supplements Health Care & Coverage Health Benefits AARP Hearing Center 
 Advice on Tinnitus and Hearing Loss
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Brain Health Resources 
 Tools and Explainers on Brain Health
 Your Health 
 8 Major Health Risks for People 50+
 Back  Money Close Menu Scams & Fraud Personal Finance Taxes Retirement Money Benefits Scams & Fraud 
 View and Report Scams in Your Area
 AARP Foundation Tax-Aide 
 Free Tax Preparation Assistance
 AARP Money Map 
 Get Your Finances Back on Track
 Your Money 
 How to Protect What You Collect
 Back  Work & Jobs Close Menu Job Search Careers Small Business Employers Age Discrimination Flexible Work 
 Freelance Jobs You Can Do From Home
 AARP Skills Builder 
 Online Courses to Boost Your Career
 Careers 
 31 Great Ways to Boost Your Career
 ON-DEMAND WEBINARS 
 Tips to Enhance Your Job Search
 Back  Social Security Close Menu Webinars 
 Get More out of Your Benefits
 Enrollment 
 When to Start Taking Social Security
 Basics 
 10 Top Social Security FAQs
 Tools 
 Social Security Benefits Calculator
 Back  Medicare Close Menu Medicare Made Easy 
 Original vs. Medicare Advantage
 Enrollment Guide 
 Step-by-Step Tool for First-Timers
 Prescription Drugs 
 9 Biggest Changes Under New Rx Law 
 Medicare FAQs 
 Quick Answers to Your Top Questions
 Back  Caregiving Close Menu Basics Care at Home Medical Financial & Legal Life Balance Local LONG-TERM CARE 
 ​Understanding Basics of LTC Insurance​
 State Guides 
 Assistance and Services in Your Area
 Prepare to Care Guides 
 How to Develop a Caregiving Plan
 End of Life 
 How to Cope With Grief, Loss
 Back  Games Close Menu All Recently Played Word & Trivia Rewards Atari® & Retro Mahjongg Members Only Staying Sharp Solitare Strategy Arcade Puzzles Card Juegos Daily Mobile Apps More About Games 
 Right Again! Trivia
 
 Right Again! Trivia – Sports
 
 Atari® Video Games
 
 Throwback Thursday Crossword
 Back  Travel Close Menu Travel Tips Vacation Ideas Destinations Travel Benefits Beach Vacation Ideas 
 Fun Beach Vacations
  Road Trips 
 Road Trips For Every Personality
  Passport Access 
 Passports Can Be Renewed Online
  AARP National Park Guide 
 Black Canyon of the Gunnison
  Back  Entertainment & Style Close Menu Movies TV Music Celebrities Beauty & Style Books Movies for Grownups 
 Summer Movie Preview
 Music 
 Jon Bon Jovi’s Long Journey Back
 Looking Back 
 50 World Changers Turning 50
 Back  Family & Relationships Close Menu Sex & Dating 
 7 Dating Dos and 7 Don'ts
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Friends & Family 
 Veterinarians May Use AI to Treat Pets
 Back  Personal Tech Close Menu Home Technology 
 Caregiver’s Guide to Smart Home Tech
 Get Happier 
 Creating Social Connections
 Virtual Community Center 
 Join Free Tech Help Events
 Back  Home & Living Close Menu Your Home 
 Creative Ways to Store Your Pets Gear
 Recipes 
 Meals to Make in the Microwave
 Your Home 
 Wearing Shoes Inside: Pros vs. Cons
 Back  Auto Close Menu Car Buying Driver Safety Maintenance & Safety Trends & Technology AARP Smart Guide 
 How to Clean Your Car
 We Need To Talk 
 Assess Your Loved One's Driving Skills
 Driver Safety 
 AARP Smart Driver Course
 Back  Staying Sharp Close Menu Assessment Challenges Articles Videos Recipes 
 Building Resilience in Difficult Times
 
 Tips for Finding Your Calm
 
 Weight Loss After 50 Challenge
 Back  Podcasts Close Menu 
 Cautionary Tales of Today's Biggest Scams
 
 7 Top Podcasts for Armchair Travelers
 
  Jean Chatzky: ‘Closing the Savings Gap’ 
 Back  Videos Close Menu 
 Quick Digest of Today's Top News
 
 AARP Top Tips for Navigating Life
 
 Get Moving With Our Workout Series
 You are now leaving AARP.org and going to a website that is not operated by AARP. A different privacy policy and terms of service will apply. John Waggoner, This information is for educational purposes only — it's not intended to provide specific advice.  We don't guarantee the accuracy of the tool and recommend consulting a financial advisor regarding your particular situation. The calculator provides an estimate of your monthly Social Security retirement benefit, based on your earnings history and age. Our tool also helps you see what percentage of daily expenses your payments can cover and how you can increase your payment by waiting to collect. It can tell you how your Social Security income could be affected if you keep working after you claim your benefit. Join AARP for just $9 per year with a 5-year membership and get a FREE Gift! Join Now Our simplified estimate is based on two main data points: your age and your average earnings.  Your monthly retirement benefit depends on how much you’ve earned over your lifetime at jobs (including self-employment) for which you paid Social Security taxes. The Social Security Administration (SSA) includes your 35 highest-earning years, adjusted for historical wage growth, in its benefit calculation. You can review your earnings history anytime if you have an online My Social Security account.
 Your Social Security benefit also depends on how old you are when you first take it. You can start collecting at the minimum retirement age of 62, but you’ll get a bigger monthly payment if you wait until full retirement age, which is between 66 and 67, depending on your year of birth. (It will settle at 67 for people born in 1960 or later.) If you can wait until 70 to start collecting, you’ll receive your maximum monthly benefit. 
 A single person born in 1968 who has averaged a $50,000 salary, for example, would get $1,410 a month by retiring at 62, the earliest age to start collecting. The same person would get $2,014 a month by waiting until the full retirement age of 67. And he or she would get $2,497, the maximum benefit on those earnings, by waiting until age 70. Payments don’t increase if you wait to collect past 70.
 Your marital status can also be a factor. If you were divorced after at least 10 years of marriage, you may be able to base your Social Security payments on your ex-spouse’s salary. The AARP calculator estimates benefits for single people who have never been married, for married couples and for divorced individuals whose marriage lasted at least 10 years and who have not remarried. Others should use the calculator as if they were single. 
If you’re widowed, you may be entitled to survivor benefits. In most cases, you’re eligible if you’re at least 60 years old and were married at least nine months before your spouse died. The calculator does not calculate survivor benefits for widows or widowers. For this and other scenarios, consult the SSA website. Other factors that could affect the size of your benefit include receiving a pension from a workplace where you did not pay Social Security taxes (as is the case for some state and local government agencies). If you are receiving such a pension but also collect Social Security based on other employment, your benefit payment could be reduced. Workers who are at least age 62 and who have worked at least 10 combined years at jobs for which they paid Social Security taxes are eligible for Social Security retirement benefits. In many cases, spouses, widows and widowers and divorced people are eligible for benefits based on a current or former spouse’s earnings history. Unmarried children 18 and younger (or older, in some cases, if disabled or still attending secondary school) can also get survivor benefits. You must be a U.S. citizen or immigrant with legal residency status. Primarily through a payroll tax. The current tax rate for Social Security is 6.2 percent for the employer and 6.2 percent for the employee — 12.4 percent total. If you’re self-employed, you pay the entire amount. The government collects Social Security tax on wages up to $168,600 in 2024. That’s a question only you can answer. Financial advisers generally recommend starting as late as you can, because you get a larger monthly payment. But the right time for you may depend on other factors besides age, including your health, marital status, how much you spend and how much you have saved. 
Consider a future retiree who was born in 1968 and has averaged $50,000 a year in salary. She has $3,000 a month in expenses. If she claimed her benefit at age 62, her estimated Social Security payment of $1,410 per month would cover just 47 percent of them. If she waited till age 70, her estimated check of $2,497 per month would cover 83 percent of her expenses.  
Keep in mind that Social Security was never intended to be the sole source of income for retirees. Traditionally, the retirement system in the U.S. has been a three-legged stool: Social Security, pensions and savings. Increasingly, however, employers, especially in the private sector, have moved away from pension plans in favor of tax-deferred retirement savings accounts such as 401(k) plans, increasing the importance of individual savings as a source of late-life income to complement Social Security.
 No. SSDI is designed for people who can’t do most work because they have a severe medical condition — one expected to last at least a year or result in death. Your SSDI benefits last only as long as you are prevented from earning a living due to a medical impairment.
  SSI is a separate benefit program for people with little or no income or assets who are 65 or older, blind or have disabilities. The maximum monthly federal SSI payment for 2024 is $943 for a single person and $1,415 for a couple (some states add to that), but you may receive less than the maximum if you or your family has other income.  John Waggoner is a contributing writer of all things financial for AARP, from budgeting and taxes to retirement planning and Social Security. Previously, he was a reporter for Kiplinger’s Personal Finance and USA Today and has written books on investing and the 2008 financial crisis. Waggoner’s USA Today investing column ran in dozens of newspapers for 25 years. 
        Unlock Access to AARP Members Edition 
 
 Already a Member? Login   AARP NEWSLETTERS %{ newsLetterPromoText  }% %{ description }% Privacy Policy Your Social Security Questions Answered CONTENT CONTINUES AFTER ADVERTISEMENT AARP Tools to Plan for Retirement Do you have enough money to retire? Estimate what you'll have saved when you retire Better manage your finances and plan for retirement LIMITED TIME OFFER: Labor Day Sale! Join AARP for just $9 per year with a 5-year membership and get a FREE Gift! Get instant access to members-only products and hundreds of discounts, a free second membership, and a subscription to AARP the Magazine.    AARP Value & Member Benefits See All 
                        
                        
                            Vacations By Rail: Cruises
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            5% off more than 40 rail and cruise vacations
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            AARP® Dental Insurance Plan administered by Delta Dental Insurance Company
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Dental insurance plans for members and their families
                        
                     SAVE MONEY WITH THESE LIMITED-TIME OFFERS  AARP is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that empowers people to choose how they live as they age. About Us Membership Policy & Research Newsletters AARP In Your City AARP En Español AARP樂齡會 AARP Foundation Wish of a Lifetime Senior Planet | OATS AgeTech Collaborative™ Legal Counsel for the Elderly