Want to use Android apps on a PC? These are the apps and services that can make it happen. Some tinkering may be required. Ever want to run an Android app on a PC? Wish your Android games weren't relegated to such a tiny phone screen? Maybe you need to test a feature on Android, but don't have the right device, or you just want that big-screen experience on an app otherwise stuck on mobile.  Your options will depend on the mobile device and Windows version, but there are several ways to run the Android operating system (and its apps) on your computer. For apps already installed on your phone, there's no need for anything fancy. Microsoft's Phone Link app can connect your Android device (and iPhone) to Windows in order to access apps, view photos, check notifications, send messages, change device settings, and more.  You can set this up by installing the Phone Link app on a Windows PC and the Link to Windows app on your Android phone, then connect the two by scanning a QR code. Note that basic features will work with any Android device, but the app works best with Samsung phones.  Keep in mind that games will suffer some delay and graphical blurriness, and you won’t be able to easily share files from the PC directly to an app in Android. But it works in a pinch for quick access to apps you already have installed, and reading and sending texts from a computer. Intel's Unison app is an alternative app that works similarly. If you're just looking to run a couple apps and don't need the emulator to look like Android, try BlueStacks. Over the years, it's become the best Android app emulator around, making it a great solution for games and apps that don't have a corresponding desktop version.  BlueStacks 5 takes up 5GB of space on your computer (plus any apps you download). Open the app to be greeted with a customized home screen and access to the Play Store. Download any apps, and they will appear on the BlueStacks home screen and your Windows desktop as their own shortcuts. Double-click an icon to run the app in question. If you specifically want to play Android games, consider installing BlueStacks X, a cloud-based solution that allows you to stream games without the need to download them first. For this reason, there are no storage requirements with BlueStacks X. The emulator features built-in mappings for mouse and keyboard, which can be customized to the touch controls found on different Android games. You can also adjust the resolution, DPI, FPS, and amount of CPU or RAM allocated to the emulator, ensuring the best balance between speed and graphical fidelity. Since BlueStacks uses virtualization to emulate Android, you may want to jump into the BIOS and enable Intel VT-x or AMD-V, if your computer supports it, for best performance. You may also be able to search for "Turn Windows features on or off" in Windows and check the Virtual Machine Platform option. BlueStacks does, unfortunately, come with some ads and clutter, but it's not as intrusive as it once was, and it's a small price to pay for the functionality you get—especially considering the Android version options it offers. If you're looking to explore the Android operating system itself—rather than individual apps—Genymotion is a decent emulator. Its main product is designed for developers and costs money to use, but there is a free version of the software that can be downloaded for personal use; you just need to first create an account on the website. Genymotion uses VirtualBox to emulate Android, so either download the version with VirtualBox bundled or install VirtualBox separately. During the download process, make sure to select the Personal Use version during the wizard. (And enable Intel VT-x or AMD-V from the computer's BIOS, if you have it.) When you start Genymotion, it will present a list of device templates to install—this determines the screen resolution, Android version (Android versions 5 through 14.0), and resources allotted to the emulator. Install the desire template, but note that this won't give you any custom versions of Android. Picking the Samsung Galaxy template, for example, won't include Samsung's One UI. Double-click the template to enter Android. You can then navigate around the home screen, launch apps, and emulate certain events like GPS location. Note that this will be a very barebones version of Android that doesn't even come with many of Google’s apps or modern features, though you can add the Play Store by clicking the Open Gapps icon in the sidebar to install it.  Genymotion works well for exploring Android's settings and other built-in features, though I wouldn’t necessarily use it to run individual apps, as it doesn’t integrate as well with your PC as something like BlueStacks. If Genymotion doesn't suit your needs, Google's official Android software development kit also comes with an Android emulator, though setup is more complex. If you're looking for something a bit more full-featured, the Android-x86 project gets as close as possible to true Android on a PC. Android-x86 is an open-source project that ports Android to the x86 platform, allowing you to run it on a computer instead of an ARM-based phone or tablet. To run Android-x86 as a desktop operating system, download it as an ISO disc image and burn it to a USB drive with a program like Rufus. Insert that USB drive into the PC, reboot, and enter the boot menu (usually by pressing a key like F12 during the boot process). By booting from the USB drive, you can run Android in a live environment or install it to the PC's hard drive for permanent usage (and better performance). Alternatively, if you want to run Android-x86 on top of your existing operating system, download the disc image and run it inside VirtualBox. This is, again, a bit more advanced if you aren't familiar with VirtualBox, but our guide to running Windows on a Mac can get you acquainted with the process. The official site has some tips for getting Android-x86 up and running in a virtual machine as well. It's more work than using something like BlueStacks, but it's also closer to pure Android, which is a nice perk. Android games on a PC? Google has expanded its Google Play Games service to Windows machines, allowing those who meet the minimum technical requirements to play some of their favorite Android games on a laptop or desktop computer.  In order to set this up, head to the Google Play Games website and download the beta app, then install the .exe file. You will also need to turn on Windows virtualization. Sign in with your Google account to carry over your existing profile and game library.  From here, all you need to do is find a game, install it from the Google Play Games window, and launch the title. Some standout titles include Alto's Adventure, Asphalt 9: Legends, Genshin Impact, Jetpack Joyride, and Turnip Boy Commits Tax Evasion.Commits Tax Evasion. Sign up for Tips & Tricks newsletter for expert advice to get the most out of your technology.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Whitson Gordon is a writer, gamer, and tech nerd who has been building PCs for 10 years. He eats potato chips with chopsticks so he doesn't get grease on his mechanical keyboard. Read Whitson's full bio As PCMag's editor of how to content, I have to cover a wide variety of topics and also make our stories accessible to everyday users. Considering my history as a technical writer, copywriter, and all-around freelancer covering baseball, comics, and more at various outlets, I am used to making myself into an expert. Read Jason's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.