0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Google Play Store was launched in the year 2008 in the month of October under the name Android Market. As of now Google Play Store has become an important part of any Android device and the statistics by Statista reveal that the number of apps in the Google Play Store in the year 2023 stands at 2.67 million. Google Play Store gets its popularity from the variety of apps and the different types of digital media it offers to its customers. Google apps has digital media for music, magazines and books but the popularity of Free Play Store games like Garena Free Fire MAX and Coin Master reveal that gaming apps will contribute to over 70% of Google Play Store revenues in the year 2024. Most of the games on Google Play Store are available for play on Android Devices but the real fun happens when these games can be played on a larger screen with the help of a keyboard or a mouse or a gaming controller. Google has launched Google Play Games Beta on PC in some countries like United States, Brazil, Hong Kong and Singapore for its customers. Google Play Games Beta helps to download Google Play Store Games directly on your PC. The service is limited to fewer regions and Google has future plans to expand the services to other regions. Follow these steps to download Play Store Games on your PC with Google Play Games Beta if you belong to the selected region: However, in countries like India where this service is not available the Play Store customers can use Windows 11 and emulators to play these Play Store Games on their PC. Windows 11 came with a striking and unique feature: native Android Emulation. This feature allows a user to run Android apps on his or her PC without installing any third-party emulator. This feature is also available in some selected regions. The feature native Android emulation allows Android to run inside windows and this makes it possible to run Android apps and games directly on Windows without using any third- party emulator. To download and install Google Play Store on Windows 11 follow the link: How to install google play store on Windows 11 The best way to download Google Play Store Games on your PC is installing a third- party emulator like BlueStacks 5/ MSI App Player or Nox Player. BlueStacks 5 is a free emulator that can help you in playing games from the Play Store on your PC. The Seven Deadly Sins The Seven Deadly Sins is a turn- based strategy game and has RPG and Gacha elements in it. Garena Free Fire MAX Garena Free Fire MAX is an improved version of the popular Free Fire Game. The game involves 50 players who land on a given map and fight until only the best player or the best team survives. State of Survival State of Survival involves a group of survivors after an apocalypse, and they must use a strategy to survive the zombie attacks and save the other fellow survivors. Street Fighter (Duel) Street Fighter Duel is an action game that involves forming a team that will help the player to perform a long chain of combo attacks in an efficient manner. Honor of Kings Honor of kings is an action game that allows a player to choose from any of the special heroes that belong to Chinese mythology. The hero has the task of coordinating and leading his team towards victory. Downloading play store games on PC is fun as it gives a totally immersive gaming experience to the player. PC gaming gives you enhanced gaming experience while playing a game as you have the option of playing on a bigger screen with a keyboard or a gaming controller that provides you more control over the game. Also Read:  Download and Play PPSSPP Games for Free on Android and PC (pcquest.com) Download Tekken for Android and PC - Play the Retro Game (pcquest.com) Download Garena Free Fire MAX for PC and Android (pcquest.com) Stay connected with us through our social media channels for the latest updates and news!    Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    