Editors Note: Our editors’ evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission when you click on our affiliate partners’ links. Editors Note: Our editors’ evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission when you click on our affiliate partners’ links. A business checking account helps separate your personal and business finances. They’re beneficial for small and large entities but vary by financial institution. With so many options, finding the right business checking account can be challenging. So, we’ve done the research to help you narrow down your choices. We scoured the web in search of the best business checking accounts. After researching several online and in-person options, here’s what we found: Axos Bank Basic Business Checking is another online option that skips the minimum deposit requirements and monthly maintenance fees. The primary draw is the ability to access cash without incurring costs, as you’ll get unlimited ATM fee reimbursements on domestic withdrawals. A $400 welcome bonus also makes this account worth considering. Tools and resources are also readily available to help move your business forward. You can leverage merchant services to receive card payments or apply for an SBA loan to secure the funding your company needs. You can also sign up for payroll services offered in conjunction with ADP to simplify the payroll process. U.S. Bank discloses limited information about its Silver Business Checking account. Still, it’s worth mentioning, as you may qualify for an $800 welcome bonus if you deposit at least $25,000 within 30 days and meet the other guidelines. There are more than 13,000 in-network ATMs, and you can visit a branch to conduct business or receive in-person support. Although there’s no monthly maintenance fee, a $100 minimum deposit is required to open an account. You’ll get 125 free transactions per statement cycle and can make 25 cash transactions or $2,500 monthly cash deposits before incurring additional fees. Lili offers an online fee-free banking experience as well as access to an assortment of valuable resources to help grow your business. You can visit the Tax Hub to simplify the filing process. Or you can leverage the invoicing software to streamline the collection process. Plus, you can access funds at over 38,000 fee-free ATMs nationwide. Extra perks are available to those who pay $9 a month for Lili Pro. They include cashback rewards on certain Lili Visa Business Debit Card purchases and fee-free overdraft protection of up to $200. And now Lili offers Lili Smart, a banking and accounting app on the same platform. Found is another fee-free innovative online business banking option. It caters to freelancers, independent contractors and other self-employed individuals. You’ll get a Found business debit Mastercard free of transaction or ACH transfer limits. Other perks include expense tracking and tax tools. These resources help organize your company's finances so you'll be prepared for tax time. There’s also built-in functionality that makes it easy to link popular payment apps. And direct deposit funds may be available to use up to two days before the scheduled payment date. Chase Business Complete Banking is ideal if you prefer an in-person banking experience. It comes with a $15 monthly maintenance fee that can be waived by meeting certain criteria. There’s no minimum opening deposit. Furthermore, you can make fee-free withdrawals at over 15,000 ATMs nationwide. Business owners can also make up to $5,000 fee-free cash deposits in a single statement cycle as well as unlimited debit card purchases, and Chase ATM transactions. What’s more, ChaseQuickAccept is available to take card payments while on the go, you'll receive payments the same day without incurring a fee and it’s possible to get associated  debit and deposit cards for your employees. Bluevine Business Checking stands out amongst the competition due to its generous returns. Account holders can earn 2.0% APY on balances of up to $250,000. This fee-free business checking account also features a bill pay option, making it much easier to manage your company's bills and expenses. In addition, it’s possible to open up to five sub-accounts to organize your company’s finances. Bluevine also lets you share account access with your team. Plus, there are no monthly ACH fees, overdraft fees, incoming wire fees or in-network ATM fees. nbkc prides itself on providing a fee-free business banking experience. Its business account comes with no opening deposit or minimum balance requirements, and you’ll never pay monthly service, overdraft domestic incoming wire, stop payment or NSF fees. Accountholders get a Business Debit MasterCard that can be used to make purchases or fee-free ATM withdrawals at nbkc-owned ATMs or at more than 37,000 MoneyPass locations nationwide. If you need to deposit funds, you can use the mobile app, a deposit-enabled ATM or visit a branch. Business solutions and lending products are also available to help you operate more efficiently. Bank of America Business Advantage Fundamentals Banking could be a good fit if you frequently receive cash payments. The first $7,500 in cash deposits per statement cycle are free. Subsequent cash deposits cost $0.30 per transaction, capped at $100. To open an account, you’ll need to make a deposit of $100, which could be a turnoff for some small business owners. There’s also a $16 monthly fee that can be waived by meeting specific requirements. Even if you’re ineligible for a waiver, the fee could be well worth it to access an assortment of digital tools, like the cash flow monitor and your business credit score. American Express Business Checking is also a top-tier online option for small business owners looking to skip the monthly maintenance fees and earn an APY. It also features a rewards program that lets you earn on everyday purchases and a welcome offer to sweeten the deal. If you meet the requirements, you’ll receive 30,000 membership rewards points as a welcome offer. You’ll also earn one point for every $2 spent on your business debit card. Rewards can be redeemed for points with travel partners in the Amex network, including Marriott, Delta, and Hilton or converted into cash deposits. Here’s what to evaluate when comparing business checking account options: You’ll find similar business banking solutions with online and in-personal financial institutions. That said, there are some key differences to be aware of: Ultimately, choosing between the two depends on your preferences and specific business needs. Visit the financial institution’s website to learn how to apply. Many banks and credit unions offer online applications to streamline the process. Others require you to visit a branch to open an account. If you plan to use an online bank, you’ll likely have to apply online and upload the required documents. Either way, here’s what you’ll typically need to get started: If there’s a minimum opening deposit requirement, you’ll also need it handy. Online applicants are prompted to provide account information to make the initial deposit. You should consider opening a business checking account if you own a business. This includes self-employed individuals operating as sole proprietors, independent contractors, gig workers and freelancers. Business checking accounts are also ideal for limited liability companies (LLCs), corporations and partnerships. The benefits of opening a business checking account for your company are numerous. You’ll avoid commingling personal and business assets. Plus, you’ll help protect your personal assets from claims made by creditors for business debt. The same applies to negative financial consequences caused by other legal matters. To compile our list of top options, we considered several factors, including accessibility, APYs, monthly maintenance fees, monthly minimum balance requirements, minimum opening deposits and ATM fees. We also evaluated the mobile banking platform, ATM network, small business resources and reputability of the financial institutions. A business checking account is a type of bank account used to make business-related transactions. You can deposit funds, make purchases with your debit card or using ACH payment, initiate withdrawals, write checks and pay bills. Some financial institutions also allow you to process payroll and make wire transfers. There’s no rule prohibiting you from using a personal bank account for your small business. However, it’s not advisable to mix personal and business affairs. Doing so could lead your personal assets to get seized if the business runs into problems. Plus, it’ll be difficult to properly maintain your company’s books and records needed for tax time. You’ll also have a tough time proving your company’s financial status and creditworthiness to lenders should you decide to apply for debt products in the future. Small businesses should have at least two accounts — a checking and a savings account. However, your company may need more accounts. It depends on your industry and the scope of daily operations. A business checking account operates like a personal checking account. However, it’s used solely to help manage your company’s funds. You’ll also find that the fees are generally higher. If the credit union you’re considering offers commercial solutions, it could be a viable option. Their business checking accounts generally come with lower fees and more generous returns compared to traditional brick-and-mortar banks. That said, you’ll need to apply for membership to open an account with a credit union. Also, consider the accessibility of the credit union. Many are limited to a local geographic area, which could be problematic if you receive a high volume of cash and need to make deposits often. Most financial institutions require more than just an EIN number to open a business checking account. Check with the bank, credit union or online platform to learn more about documentation requirements before moving forward with your application to open a business account. * Found is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services are provided by Piermont Bank, Member FDIC. The Found Mastercard ®️ debit card is issued by Piermont Bank pursuant to a license from Mastercard Inc. and may be used everywhere Mastercard debit cards are accepted. Direct deposit funds may be available for use for up to two days before the scheduled payment date. Early availability is not guaranteed. The Lili Visa® Debit Cards is issued by Sunrise Banks N.A., Member FDIC, pursuant to a license from Visa U.S.A. Inc. Lili is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services provided by Sunrise Banks N.A., Member FDIC. This story was written by NJ Personal Finance, a partner of NJ.com. The information presented here is created independently from the NJ.com editorial staff, and purchases made through links in this article may result in NJ.com earning a commission. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our   User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices