Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	August 01, 2023   	
				         Bluevine, a small business banking solutions provider, has launched its new accounts payable (AP) offering to help business owners and their teams simplify business payments management within their Bluevine business checking accounts.
With accounts payable through Bluevine, business owners can now easily automate each step of their AP process, including bill capture and storage, approval workflows, payment scheduling, automatic accounting reconciliation, and user provisioning and management.
As SMBs grow, keeping up with bill payments and management is as much a source of pain as it is essential for optimising cash flow. With few alternatives available to businesses of this size, the seamless addition of a robust AP feature set and easy-to-use dashboard to Bluevine’s digital banking platform reinforces the company’s commitment to helping SMB owners save time and money by applying innovative solutions to everyday problems.
“As small businesses scale, often they face more complexity in managing their operations. Our accounts payable solution is purpose-built to strike a balance between providing a robust set of AP automation tools with the ease of use that our customers have come to expect from Bluevine,” said Charles Amadon, SVP, GM of Banking at Bluevine.”
“Every decision we make has the SMB at the heart of it, starting with the essential question – will this help them grow and run their business easier? Based on customer feedback, we knew AP automation was something they wanted and needed. Putting all that power into their checking account dashboard is an exciting step forward, further differentiating Bluevine Business Checking with even more added value,”Amadon added.
Bluevine has been dedicated to building all its banking and financial service products with small businesses in mind, tailoring the capabilities and user experience to their specific needs. The company’s focus on business payments is not new. Earlier this year, Bluevine announced the launch of international payments, enabling SMB owners to send payments globally at competitive rates.
 Bluevine, a small business banking solutions provider, has launched its new accounts payable (AP) offering to help business owners and their teams simplify business payments management within their Bluevine business checking accounts. With accounts payable through Bluevine, business owners can now easily automate each step of their AP process, including bill capture and storage, approval workflows, payment scheduling, automatic accounting reconciliation, and user provisioning and management. As SMBs grow, keeping up with bill payments and management is as much a source of pain as it is essential for optimising cash flow. With few alternatives available to businesses of this size, the seamless addition of a robust AP feature set and easy-to-use dashboard to Bluevine’s digital banking platform reinforces the company’s commitment to helping SMB owners save time and money by applying innovative solutions to everyday problems. “As small businesses scale, often they face more complexity in managing their operations. Our accounts payable solution is purpose-built to strike a balance between providing a robust set of AP automation tools with the ease of use that our customers have come to expect from Bluevine,” said Charles Amadon, SVP, GM of Banking at Bluevine.” “Every decision we make has the SMB at the heart of it, starting with the essential question – will this help them grow and run their business easier? Based on customer feedback, we knew AP automation was something they wanted and needed. Putting all that power into their checking account dashboard is an exciting step forward, further differentiating Bluevine Business Checking with even more added value,”Amadon added. Bluevine has been dedicated to building all its banking and financial service products with small businesses in mind, tailoring the capabilities and user experience to their specific needs. The company’s focus on business payments is not new. Earlier this year, Bluevine announced the launch of international payments, enabling SMB owners to send payments globally at competitive rates. August 01, 2023 August 01, 2023 July 19, 2024 Accounts Payable August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
