Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  A well-picked business checking account can make a positive impact on the financial operations of your business. And since each business has unique needs, it pays to take your time and compare different accounts before deciding on one.  To make your search easier, CNBC Select reviewed dozens of business checking accounts with digital and in-person access. We considered many factors when ranking the best accounts, including invoicing support, payment flexibility, fees and interest rates. (Read more about our methodology below.) N/A Standard $0; Bluevine Plus $30/month (with options to waive); Premier $95/month (with options to waive)  $0 $0 Standard: 2.0% APY on balances up to and including $250,000 if you meet a monthly activity goal* Bluevine Plus: 3.0% APY for Plus customersPremier: 4.25% APY without minimum qualifications No fees at over 38,000 ATM locations nationwide No Two free checkbooks $0 Yes Terms apply. Bluevine accounts are FDIC insured up to $3 million per depositor through Coastal Community Bank, Member FDIC *The requirements to earn interest are either: Who's this for? Bluevine Business Checking is great if you're a small business owner. It doesn't limit the number of transactions you can make and charges no monthly, minimum daily balances or non-sufficient fund fees. Additionally, it doesn't charge for overdrafts or ACH payments. Standout benefits: Bluevine provides the opportunity to earn interest. It also offers useful business-centric features like the ability to deposit checks from your phone, sync your account with QuickBooks online and share access with your team by giving your employees dedicated logins. [ Jump to more details ] Perks upon sign up can include $3,000 in Google Cloud credits, $150 toward Google Ads, 40% off the first six months of QuickBooks Online and up to $20,000 in fee-free credit card transactions when you link your account with Stripe $0 $0 $0 None No out-of-network ATM fees and reimburses fees charged by other ATM operators, up to $7 per month Yes, up to $7 per month worldwide Sync your account with Slack, Stripe, Shopify, Quickbooks, TransferWise, Xero, Zapier and other popular merchant tools. Amazon integration for sales and revenue tracking. If a transaction is made and there are insufficient funds to complete the payment, your Novo account will not be charged an overdraft fee Yes Terms apply. Novo Platform Inc. {"Novo") is a fintech, not a bank. Banking services provided by Middlesex Federal Savings, F.A. Member FDIC. Who's this for? Novo Business Checking is worth considering if you want to establish a business presence and separate your personal and business finances. Standout benefits: Novo allows unlimited transactions and refunds all ATM fees worldwide, up to $7 per month. It provides tools for unlimited invoicing, as well as integration with some common business tools, including Stripe, Shopify, QuickBooks and Xero. You'll also get access to discounts on eligible business services and software. [ Jump to more details ] Earn $300 when you open a new Chase Business Complete Checking account. For new Chase business checking customers with qualifying activities. $15, with options to waive None None required but maintaining a minimum daily balance of $2,000 in your account as of the beginning of each day of the statement period will waive the monthly maintenance fee N/A More than 16,000 Chase ATMs None Multiple owners get individual debit cards, PINs and online access to the account; debit cards for employees for which the owner can control daily limits $34 with ways to waive Yes, using the Chase Mobile® app Terms apply. Chase Bank is a Member FDIC. How to avoid the monthly fee: Meet one of these conditions during your monthly statement period. How overdraft fees are waived: Who's this for? Chase Business Complete Banking® is an excellent choice for many types of businesses because of its generous cash bonus, built-in card acceptance and large network of over 4,700 physical branches. Standout benefits: When you open a new Chase Business Complete Checking account, you can earn $300 with qualifying activities. Offer ends 10/17/2024. Ongoing benefits include access to QuickAccept and QuickDeposit. QuickAccept allows you to accept card payments with a mobile card reader or through the Chase app. QuickDeposit offers a few options to scan and deposit checks, such as taking a picture of your check in the mobile app or signing up for a multiple-feed scanner to scan as many as 50 checks at once. [ Jump to more details ] N/A $35, waived if your prior 30- or 90-day account balance averages $25,000 or more $250 N/A None 40,000+ fee-free Capital One and Allpoint® ATMs to choose from (including in select Target®, Walgreens® and CVS Pharmacy® locations) No Account holders have the ability to sign up for Capital One® ProDeposit, a paid service ($50 per month) allowing unlimited mobile check scanning (up to $250,000 per 20 business days) with added security features $35, but free overdraft protection with a linked small business deposit account Free smartphone mobile deposits Terms apply. Capital One is a Member FDIC. How to avoid the monthly fee: Who's this for? The Capital One Enhanced Checking account is worth considering if your business has higher balance and transaction volumes. Standout benefits: Incoming domestic wires are free and your first five outgoing wires are free each month. You can deposit checks using a remote scanner service without having to visit a Capital One branch. The account also allows you to get up to two Basic Checking accounts with no monthly service fees. [ Jump to more details ] N/A $0 $0 $0 None using the free version; 1.5% APY on balances up to $20K for Found Plus Standard ATM fees will apply None Access to built-in bookkeeping and tax tools; integrations with Stripe and Quickbooks; unlimited customizable invoices; offers Found Plus, which is an optional premium service that provides access to more advanced business tools for $19.99 per month $0 Yes Found is a financial technology company, not a bank. Business banking services are provided by Piermont Bank, Member FDIC. The funds in your account are FDIC-insured up to $250,000 per depositor for each account ownership category. The Found Mastercard Business debit card is issued by Piermont Bank pursuant to a license from Mastercard Inc. and may be used everywhere Mastercard debit cards are accepted. Direct deposit funds may be available for use for up to two days before the scheduled payment date. Early availability is not guaranteed. Who's this for? The Found business checking account can be an excellent choice if you're a freelancer or independent contractor. The account requires no monthly fees or minimum balance — and it's free to sign up. Standout benefits: Users get access to built-in tax and accounting tools, including bookkeeping, invoicing and the ability to create categories ("pockets") to organize their cash flow. Additionally, you can link your account to payment and business apps such as Cash App, PayPal and Venmo, as well as Stripe and Quickbooks. [ Jump to more details ] Business owners get up to $400 welcome bonus!* Open a business checking account by August 1 and get up to $400 when you use promo code NEW400 on your application.* $0 $0 $0 None Not disclosed Unlimited domestic ATM fee reimbursements Integrates with payroll services and merchant services Not disclosed Yes *Small Business Checking bonus up to $400: You must be approved for your new Basic Business Checking or Business Interest Checking account and fund it within 30 days of account opening. An incentive of up to $400 can be earned during the first five (5) statement cycles. A statement cycle is a calendar month consisting of at least one day your account was open during that month. You can earn a maximum of four (4) payouts during the five (5) statement cycles, and the incentive will be deposited into the qualifying account within 10 business days following the end of the statement cycle in which the balance requirement was met. Who's this for? The Axos Basic Business Checking account is a good fit if you want ATM access. It offers unlimited domestic ATM fee reimbursements, so you don't need to worry about whether an ATM is in-network. Standout benefits: If you open a new Basic Business Checking account by October 31, 2024 and use the promo code NEW400, you can earn a welcome bonus of up to $400. The average daily balance in your account must be between $25,000 and $49,999.99 for a $300 bonus or greater than $50,000 for a $400 bonus, and you must have bill pay set up and at least ten point-of-sale transactions per month. This account doesn't have a monthly maintenance fee, minimum monthly balance requirement or minimum deposit to open the account. It offers free domestic and international incoming wire transfers, as well as two reimbursed outgoing wires each month. [ Jump to more details ] Business owners get up to $400 welcome bonus!* Open a business checking account by August 1 and get up to $400 when you use promo code NEW400 on your application.* $10 (waived with $5,000 minimum average daily balance) $100 $0 (must keep a $5,000 minimum average daily balance to waive the maintenance fee) Up to 1.01% APY Standard ATM fees may apply Unlimited ATM fee reimbursements (domestic only) Access to merchant services through Celero Merchant Solution, payroll services through Roll by ADP and small business lending with Centerstone Small Business Administration Lending $25 per item ($75 maximum per day) for non-sufficient/uncollected funds on paid or returned items Yes *Small Business Checking bonus up to $400: You must be approved for your new Basic Business Checking or Business Interest Checking account and fund it within 30 days of account opening. An incentive of up to $400 can be earned during the first five (5) statement cycles. A statement cycle is a calendar month consisting of at least one day your account was open during that month. You can earn a maximum of four (4) payouts during the five (5) statement cycles, and the incentive will be deposited into the qualifying account within 10 business days following the end of the statement cycle in which the balance requirement was met. Who's this for? The Axos Business Interest Checking is ideal if you're on the market for a welcome bonus. Standout benefits: The welcome bonus for the Basic Business Checking account is also available for the Business Interest Checking account - open by October 31, 2024 and use the promo code NEW400, to earn a welcome bonus of up to $400. Just as with the Basic Business Checking bonus, the average daily balance in your account must be between $25,000 and $49,999.99 for a $300 bonus or greater than $50,000 for a $400 bonus, and you must have bill pay set up and at least ten point-of-sale transactions per month. This account also lets you earn up to 1.01% APY on your balance. [ Jump to more details ] N/A $29.95/month, with options to waive $100 $15,000 to waive the monthly fee (or $5,000 for the lower-tier Bank of America Business Fundamentals account) None 16,900 Bank of America ATMs No Easy QuickBooks® integration $10 per item (up to two fees per day). Accounts can be set to decline transactions when there are insufficient funds. Yes Terms apply. Bank of America is a Member FDIC. How to avoid the monthly fee: Meet one of the following requirements each statement cycle. Who's this for? Bank of America Business Advantage Relationship Banking can be a good option if you're handling up to $20,000 in monthly cash deposits. Standout benefits: This account allows you to make cash deposits of up to $20,000 per month for free. Other perks include access to digital tools like Zelle, Cash Flow Monitor and Business Advantage 360. Cash Flow Monitor provides tracking of credits and debits, cash flow projections and support from small-business specialists. Business Advantage 360 lets you pay bills, view and manage statements and transactions and download activity to QuickBooks. You can also connect your account to third-party apps like TurboTax and Expensify. [ Jump to more details ] Lili Pro, Lili Smart, and Lili Premium account holders can earn cash back on business debit card purchases $0 for Basic account; $9 for Pro account; $21 for Smart account; $33 for Premium account $0 $0 4.15% APY for savings account balances $0 for in-network ATMs (ATM provider may charge a fee) Yes, see here for more details Provides account access for multiple users and a debit card for each $0 Yes Terms apply. Who's this for? Lili enables easy business spending through its Lili Visa Debit Card, which syncs to its checking account. This card also allows accountholders who upgrade to a Lili Pro, Lili Smart or Lili Premium account to earn cash back when you spend with merchants participating in the Visa SavingsEdge® program. Business owners can also take advantage of joint user access on the card.  Standout features: Overdrafts on the Lili banking account are covered for up to $200. [ Jump to more details ]    Bluevine Business Checking is a digital account so you won't have the option to visit a branch, but you'll have free access to over 37,000 MoneyPass ATMs nationwide, as well as the ability to deposit cash and order checkbooks. Premier customers get 4.25% APY without minimum qualifications, Bluevine Plus customers can earn 3% APY, and Standard customers get 2% APY on their balance up to $250,000 if they meet the monthly debit transaction or deposit requirement. Minimum deposit to open $0 Minimum balance $0 APY 2.00% APY to 4.25%, depending on your account tier [ Return to account summary ] Novo Business Checking is an online business checking account with no monthly maintenance fee and no minimum deposit upon opening. While you won't be able to make any cash deposits, you can use Novo's mobile app to deposit checks and money orders. Minimum deposit to open $0 Minimum balance $0 APY None [ Return to account summary ] Chase Business Complete Banking is a fairly no-frills account, ideal for those who want access to physical branches. It has a $15 monthly service fee but you can avoid it by meeting one of the following requirements: Minimum deposit to open $0 Minimum balance $0 (maintaining a minimum daily balance of $2,000 in your account as of the beginning of each day of the statement period will waive the monthly maintenance fee) APY None [ Return to account summary ] Capital One is a household name in banking with brick-and-mortar locations, as well as access to over 70,000 in-network Capital One, MoneyPass® and Allpoint® ATMs. The Enhanced Checking account is designed for businesses with cash deposit needs under $40,000 per month. It has a $35 monthly service fee but you can get it waived if your prior 30- or 90-day balance averages $25,000 or more. It offers various useful features, such as an online bill pay feature that makes it easy to send payments to vendors for free. Minimum deposit to open $250 Minimum balance $0 APY None [ Return to account summary ] Found offers a free account geared toward self-employed individuals. It allows for a few basic integrations but you can access more advanced business tools if you upgrade to the Found Plus account, which costs $19.99 per month or $149.99 per year. Plus, you'll be able to earn 1.5% APY on account balances of up to $20,000. Note that Found has certain deposit and withdrawal limits that might present a challenge if you have a larger cash flow. Specifically, you can deposit up to $3,000 in checks and $2,000 in cash per week. There's also a monthly limit of $4,000 for cash deposits. Further, you can transfer up to $5,000 to a linked bank account per day. Card purchases and transfers to payment apps have a daily limit of $4,000. Minimum deposit to open $0 Minimum balance $0 APY None for the free version; 1.5% APY for Found Plus [ Return to account summary ] Axos Bank is an online bank offering a range of financial products for both consumers and businesses. Axos Basic Business Checking is a straightforward account with no monthly maintenance fees, no initial deposit or minimum balance requirements, free domestic incoming wires and unlimited transactions. It also offers unlimited domestic ATM fee reimbursements. Minimum deposit to open $0 Minimum balance $0 APY None [ Return to account summary ] The Axos Business Interest Checking account stands out for earning interest, which is less common among checking accounts, but the APY you earn varies based on your balance. It has a low $100 minimum opening deposit, offers unlimited domestic ATM fee reimbursements and allows up to 60 items per month for remote deposit. It has a $10 monthly maintenance fee, but it can be waived with a $5,000 minimum average daily balance. Minimum deposit to open $100 Minimum balance $0 (must keep a $5,000 minimum average daily balance to waive the maintenance fee) APY Up to 1.01% APY [ Return to account summary ] Bank of America is another well-known name in the banking world with thousands of physical branches. The Business Advantage Relationship Banking account offers fee-free electronic transactions, such as ACH transactions, debit card transactions, electronic debits and online or ATM deposits. Minimum deposit to open $100 Minimum balance $0 (maintaining an average monthly balance of $15,000 will waive the monthly maintenance fee) APY None [ Return to account summary ] Lili doesn't require a minimum deposit to open the account or make you maintain a monthly minimum balance. Customers can also take advantage of no ATM fees at over 40,000 locations. And if you're willing to pay a monthly fee for an upgraded Lili account, you gain access to the fintech's invoicing, tax and accounting software to help you manage your business.  Minimum deposit to open  $0  Minimum balance   $0  APY   None for Lili checking account; 4.15% for Lili savings account up to $100,000  [ Return to account summary ]  When deciding whether to open an online business checking account or go with a brick-and-mortar bank, consider how you manage your business day-to-day. Many businesses are now mostly digital, meaning invoicing, payments, accounting and payroll happen electronically. On the other hand, some businesses still primarily use cash often enough that they need to bank with a local branch where they can drop off money at the end of every business day. Online business checking accounts are undoubtedly convenient and come with helpful invoicing features, but it might be worth trading the convenience of these options for the ability to easily withdraw and/or deposit physical cash in large quantities. However, online-only banks have lower fees and usually have lower minimum balance requirements (some as low as $0), so if banking in person is not part of your daily workflow, it might be time to consider a new alternative. Find the best savings account for you: Help your money grow by finding the savings account that offers the best rates and features for you. You can open a checking account, savings account or merchant services account for your business — but since a checking account allows you to manage your regular cash flow, it may be the best place to start. You need an Employer Identification Number (EIN) to open a business bank account. However, if your business is a sole proprietorship or a single-member LLC, you can use your Social Security Number (SSN). You can use a personal bank account for your business if it's a sole proprietorship, but even in this case, it can cause issues with record-keeping and tax preparation. The minimum deposit to open a business checking account depends on the account: some require none, while others may require upwards of $1,000. Nearly anyone with a side hustle or small business can qualify for a business checking account — not just large corporations. Opening a business checking account is a simple way to separate your personal finances from your business finances, whether you're a sole proprietor conducting business under your social security number or you have an LLC with its own tax ID. Anyone who has a business, small or large, can benefit from a business checking account. It helps you track your revenue and expenses so that you can understand the business's financial performance before transferring the money to your personal account for spending. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every checking account review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of banking products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best business checking accounts. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To determine which business checking accounts offer the most convenience, CNBC Select analyzed dozens of U.S. business checking accounts offered nationwide by online banks as well as those with physical branches. We narrowed down our rankings by considering no-fee checking accounts or accounts with easy ways to waive the monthly maintenance fees. We compared each checking account on a range of features, including: All accounts included on this list are either members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or FDIC-insured through partner institutions. This insurance protects and reimburses you up to your balance and the legal limit in the event your bank or credit union fails. The rates and fee structures for checking accounts are subject to change without notice and they often fluctuate in accordance with the prime rate. Your earnings depend on any associated fees and the balance you have in your checking account. To open an account, some banks and institutions may require a deposit of new money, meaning you can't transfer money you already had in an account at that bank. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Novo is a fintech company; not a bank. Deposit account services provided by Middlesex Federal Savings, F.A., Member FDIC.  Physical debit cards issued by Middlesex Federal Savings or Patriot Bank, N.A., Member FDIC;  virtual cards issued by Patriot Bank, pursuant to licenses from Mastercard® International Incorporated.  Mastercard can be used everywhere Mastercard is accepted.  Mastercard is a registered trademark of Mastercard International Incorporated. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.