CELEBRITIES This Friday actress Brooke Shields, 57, celebrated her 22nd wedding anniversary with Chris Henchy, 59, the screenwriter and producer. She shared a few images from their love story over the years, receiving many positive comments. A post shared by Brooke Shields (@brookeshields) Shields wrote in the caption, “22 years married today… sometimes it feels like it’s been forever in the blink of an eye! There’s nobody else I’d rather drive insane or be driven insane by… catch or be caught by… love or be loved by.” “I’m in it for the long haul. You’re a keeper,” she added. Ali Wentworth comments on the post “Favorite people! Happy Anniversary!!!! Make him your special raw meat lasagna tonight! ” The two love birds share two daughters– Rowan, 20, and Grier, 17. On Mother’s Day, the proud mama made a post honoring her late mother and her beautiful girls, who are nearly a spitting image of the star. A post shared by Brooke Shields (@brookeshields) Shields, whose life and career is chronicled in the recent documentary ‘Pretty Baby: Brooke Shields’, told PEOPLE in March about the time early in her relationship with Henchy when she broke up with him because she worried she was “rebounding, or whatever they call it, because I hadn’t spent any time sowing my oats.” She was previously married to Andre Agassi. Shields met Henchy in 1999, when the American bulldog, Darla, which she had just adopted, walked off the Warner Bros. Studios lot when Shields brought the dog to work to meet her friends. “Chris brought her back,” she wrote in her 2005 memoir. “He was writing for a show filmed on the lot and loved dogs. We chatted and he made me laugh.” She added, “I was struck by how thoughtful and funny he was,” although at the time, Shields, who was fresh off her divorce from Agassi, was not ready for a new relationship. MUSIC MOVIES “Because he knew my situation, there was no pressure, and we were friends for quite some time.” “To this day I believe that I fell in love with Chris the day we met, in 1999, but I would never tell him that!” she wrote of her husband. ENTERTAINMENT MUSIC HOLLYWOOD DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.