
Third Original Series from Web3 Story Studio Toonstar Powered by the Theta Video Network
 
Check Out the Trailer Released Today Here
 Toonstar's Space Junk starring Jon Heder and Tony Cavalero (Graphic: Business Wire) LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Web3 story studio Toonstar today announced the release of its new adult-animated series, “Space Junk.” The workplace comedy about garbage collectors in space was created and written by Dominic Russo (“Workaholics”) and stars Jon Heder (“Napoleon Dynamite,” “Blades of Glory”) and Tony Cavalero (“School of Rock,” “The Righteous Gemstones”). Following Thursday’s world premiere at Consensus 2023, episodes will be available to stream here beginning May 19. “Space Junk” is powered by the Theta media and entertainment blockchain.

  
“Space Junk” is Toonstar’s third original Web3 series released following “The Gimmicks” and “House of Chico.” Founded by John Attanasio and Luisa Huang, veterans of DreamWorks, Disney and Warner Bros., Toonstar offers a storytelling model that gives digital token holders the ability to participate in narrative development, create their own characters and storylines, and engage in unique fan experiences. The result has been engagement levels that rival gaming industry statistics.

 
“With each series released this year, we’ve pushed the technology forward to broaden opportunities for creators and fans to engage with the story world and take part in building new hit IP,” said Attanasio. “With ‘Space Junk’ we’re taking it even further, merging great content with game play that will launch a new Web3-enabled model of interactive entertainment.”

 
“We are thrilled to partner with Toonstar on ‘Space Junk,’ a series that will demonstrate to the entertainment industry what’s possible when you use blockchain technology to empower creators and fans to engage and create in powerful new ways,” said Andrea Berry, Head of Business Development, Theta Labs. “As a content company, Toonstar has a strong understanding of the power of Web3 technology and has executed its vision impressively. We see them as a valuable technology developer to bring a dynamic, interactive experience to life by building on the Theta video infrastructure, a custom Theta subchain and NFT marketplace.”

 
In an industry first, “Space Junk” will feature a character voiced entirely by AI voice generated software. That character, a robot named “Wellbecca,” will interact directly with the “Space Junk” community, acting as a creative co-pilot for community members. Using AI and dynamic NFTs, Wellbecca will help creators turn their prompts into original short stories set within the “Space Junk” universe.

 
“The participatory storytelling aspect of ‘Space Junk’ presents an opportunity to bring more creators into the fold to uncover fresh stories and ideas which feels especially important in today’s environment,” said Jon Heder, co-founder, Verified Labs and executive producer, “Space Junk.” “Toonstar is absolutely showing the broader entertainment industry how Web3 can open doors for new creators and create crazy, engaged fan communities, and uncover great new IP for Hollywood.”

 
The issue of space garbage came to the media forefront last month when an international team of researchers estimated there are more than 100 trillion pieces of floating debris in space. Toonstar collaborated with an aerospace engineer to ensure this looming space junk problem was depicted accurately on screen.

 
Fans can view the “Space Junk” trailer here and download key art here.

 
About Toonstar
 
Toonstar is a Web3 story studio that’s building entertainment IP thru participatory storytelling + unique community experiences. We’re a nimble team of creators, builders and technologists hailing from Disney, Warner Bros. + DreamWorks with proprietary animation tech, blockchain dev tech and direct-to-community building expertise that’s cultivated some of the largest + most engaged communities on the internet. We’re the studio behind the first weekly community-driven animated NFT series called “The Gimmicks,” and we’re on a mission to build the future of Web3 entertainment + unlock storytelling for creators around the world. Toonstar is backed by top media tech investors including Founders Fund, Greycroft Ventures, Snap, Baron Davis and GFR.

 
About Theta Labs
 
Theta Labs pioneered Theta Network, the next-generation Layer1 purpose-built blockchain for video and entertainment, which powers THETA.tv, a decentralized live streaming platform, and ThetaDrop, an NFT marketplace partnered with Katy Perry, ABS-CBN, Jukin Media, Fuse Media and others. Theta’s enterprise validator and governance council is led by global leaders including Google, Samsung, Sony, Creative Artists Agency (CAA), Binance, Blockchain Ventures, DHVC, and gumi. Strategic corporate investors include Samsung NEXT, Sony Innovation Fund, Bertelsmann Digital Media Investments (BDMI), and Silicon Valley VCs including DCM and Sierra Ventures.

 
About Verified Labs
 
Verified Labs is an award-winning Web3 agency connecting talent to the future of entertainment and the internet. Some of their clients include the estates of Ernest Hemingway, Steve McQueen and 2Pac Shakur as well as Napoleon Dynamite, Dog the Bounty Hunter, and Triumph Motorcycles. They also develop and produce film, TV, and animated series for both traditional and non-traditional distribution.

 
Amanda Orr for Toonstar
amanda@toonstar.com 
202-459-1304

 
Amanda Orr for Toonstar
amanda@toonstar.com 
202-459-1304

