Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Steve Huff
          

            Dec 22, 2022
          
 
          Share         The United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has alleged that a global drug cartel trafficking in meth and cocaine used the popular cryptocurrency exchange Binance to launder $15 to $40 million in illicit profits. Forbes, citing a search warrant, reported that the DEA launched an investigation into the cartel's use of Binance in 2020, eventually leading to the arrest of Mexican citizen Carlos Fong Echavarria, who pleaded guilty to money laundering and drug dealing. Binance reportedly cooperated with the investigation, helping to identify an additional, still unnamed account holder who reportedly purchased nearly $42 million worth of cryptocurrencies through the platform. Matthew Price, Binance senior director of investigations, told Forbes that the blockchain was key. "This is actually an example of where the transparency of blockchain transactions works against criminal actors," he said. "The bad guys are leaving a permanent record of what they're doing." Reuters has reported that Binance itself may face a probe from the US Department of Justice (DOJ), but a company spokesperson said questions about any kind of DOJ investigation were "fueled with false insinuations." Drug cartels and other criminal organizations have increasingly turned to cryptocurrencies to launder their illicit profits. Cryptocurrencies can ease moving large sums of money across borders and obscure the origin of the funds. However, cash remains the preferred method of payment for most criminals. While using cryptocurrencies in illegal activities is a growing concern, most crypto transactions remain legal and legitimate. Entrepreneur Staff 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          The former President reported the assets in a regulatory financial filing on Thursday.
         
          Is Burning Man's popularity extinguishing? 
         
          This article aims to provide entrepreneurs with basic knowledge and understanding of the potential of immersive technologies and generative AI in business and discuss their impact on the global business agenda.
         
          If you want to see improvement, you have to put in the work.
         
          The three-time Home Depot Head Coach of the Year and one of the winningest coaches in college football history breaks down his playbook for team success.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
