A new version of an old Warhammer board game - Combat Arena - has made a surprise appearance, and it's due to land incredibly soon. After being radio silent for years, the head-to-head Warhammer board game is getting dug up for another instalment later this month. Much like Hunger Games or Battle Royale, it pits characters (captured against their will, if the previous edition is anything to go by) against one another in a fight to the death. You can choose between 10 heroes drawn from across the Warhammer 40,000 world, each with their own abilities to master. However, there's a twist. Dubbed 'Lair of the Beast', this version resurrects the Combat Arena format with a key difference - now, a gnarly alien monster has been added to shake things up. As well as battling rival heroes in this 30ish-minute experience for two to four players, the 'Ambull' will be doing its best to tear you all limb from limb. Image 1 of 3 Image 2 of 3 Image 3 of 3 If the miniatures shown here look familiar, they should. Many of them appeared in the old Blackstone Fortress box set (which would probably rank as one of the best board games in your collection if you love both 40K and dungeon-crawlers), while the Ambull was featured in 'The Dreaded Ambull' expansion. This is something publisher Games Workshop seems to be getting better at in recent years; revisiting limited-run or hard-to-get figures, often for entry-level boxsets. A good example would be the new Warhammer Underworlds starter set, due to see release very soon. While it's a fresh entry-point to the series of board games for adults, it features retired warbands we've seen before but can't really get now. The revised Warcry starter set does much the same thing. Combat Arena: Lair of the Beast is due to launch at some point later in July from Barnes and Noble. Unfortunately, we don't have a UK release window yet. It's a busy month for Warhammer board games; a tie-in for the upcoming Space Marine 2 is also available now. Although the sarcastic amongst you might ask "isn't that just 40K?" Space Marine: The Board Game is a more focused survival experience that pits Space Marine 2's hero, Titus, against an endless horde of Tyranids. It's available exclusively from Target for $39.99, but should apparently be coming to other territories before long. The Titus miniature will also be released separately sometime in the not-so-distant future, allowing you to field the Ultramarine hero in your own army (perhaps as an addition to Leviathan or the upcoming starter sets). Want some recommendations? Don't miss these board games for 2 players. You can also check out our Warhammer 10th Edition first impressions, or see if the new 40K boxset is worth getting with our Warhammer 40K Leviathan impressions. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.