
Alex Hernandez | August 2, 2023August 2, 2023 Entertainment, How To
 I cannot count the number of times my kids have moaned the phrase, I’m bored. Sure, we could hand them an iPad, iPhone, computer, or plop them in front of the TV and that would make their day. But we don’t. While electronics are great, they’re also addicting, and a little boredom never hurt anyone. But if you can’t take the boredom and whining any longer, these ten board games for families may help you out.  Estimated reading time: 3 minutes Board games are a great way to spend time with family and friends. They can be educational, challenging, and just plain fun. If you’re looking for some great board games to play with your kids, here are 10 of our favorites. Click the name of the game to purchase from Amazon. These are just a few of the many great board games that are available for families with kids. With so many great options to choose from, you’re sure to find a game that everyone will enjoy. I hope this helps you find some great board games to play with your family! What board games do you enjoy? Please share your thoughts on any of the social media pages listed below. You can also comment on our MeWe page by joining the MeWe social network. And subscribe to our RUMBLE channel for more trailers and tech videos. In some of our articles and especially in our reviews, you will find Amazon or other affiliate links. As Amazon Associates, we earn from qualifying purchases. Any other purchases you make through these links often result in a small amount being earned for the site and/or our writers. Techaeris often covers brand press releases. Doing this does not constitute an endorsement of any product or service by Techaeris. We provide the press release information for our audience to be informed and make their own decision on a purchase or not. Only our reviews are an endorsement or lack thereof. For more information, you can read our full disclaimer. Techaeris was founded in 2013 by Alex Hernandez who is the Editor-In-Chief and Owner. Techaeris is fast becoming your source for technology news, reviews and all things geek/nerd entertainment related. We cover movies, comics, books, gaming, tech, and industry news all in one clean place. Amazon
Android
Apple
App Store
ASUS
AT&T
Audio
Augmented reality
Automotive Technology
battery
Best Buy
BlackBerry
Black Friday
Bluetooth
Business
Camera
Canada
Cars
CES
Chicago
China
Christmas
Chrome
Chromebook
Chromecast
Crowdfunding
Deals
Dell
EarBuds
Education
Elon Musk
Facebook
Fitness
Forza Motorsport
Game controller
Games
gaming
giveaway
Google
Google Play
Guitar
Hardware
HBO
Headphones
Health