Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     There were quite a few wrestlers who worked for WWE in the 1970s that fans may not be aware of. Some wrestlers may not be as well-known today because their careers were earlier in the company's history, and they may have competed before the days of televised events and the internet.
      RELATED: 10 Important WWE Match Results From The 1980s That Divided Fans
                     On the other hand, there are other wrestlers that are still remembered today because they made an impact in the 1980s or 1990s, but fans don’t know they also worked for WWE in the 1970s. So, without further ado, let's take a look at 10 wrestlers you didn’t realize wrestled for WWE in the 1970s.
                         Perhaps you have no idea who Killer Kowalski was, but it is worth knowing about him. He was an imposing wrestler, standing at 6'7'' tall and weighing around 300 pounds, who competed during the 1950s, 60s, and 70s.
                         Kowalski worked for WWE in the final years of his career, from 1974 to 1977, and he managed to win the Tag Team Championship alongside Big John Studd, as the Executioners.
                         That's right, Big John Studd worked for WWE in the 1970s. People remember this guy for his feuds with Hulk Hogan, Andre The Giant, and Bob Backlund, as well as his good times in the 80s like his Royal Rumble win in 1989.
                         With that said, it's no wonder fans didn't realize that he also worked for WWE in the 1970s. In fact, in his rookie wrestling year (1972), Big John Studd wrestled for WWE, under the name Chuck O'Connor.
                         Verne Gagne worked for most of his career in the American Wrestling Association, where he became a top star and even held the AWA World Heavyweight Championship for a record-setting 10 times.
                         What many fans don't know is that Gagne had a handful of matches in WWE in the 1970s, though the only televised one was his win over Nikolai Volkoff on an episode of WWWF on MSG Network in 1977.
                         Fans remember Bob Backlund in the 1980s and 1990s, as he experienced the best moments of his career in those years. People remember his feud with Bret Hart very well, for example.
                         Most fans know that Backlund had a World Heavyweight Title reign of 2135 days, but some ignore that this title reign started in 1978. For some reason, fans often forget, or simply don't realize, that Backlund actually made his WWE debut in late 1976.
      Pat Patterson began his wrestling career in the late 1950s, and throughout the years he competed in various promotions, including the National Wrestling Alliance and WWE.
      RELATED: 10 Things Fans Should Know About Pat Patterson
                     Patterson was best known for his time in WWE in the 1980s and 90s, where he worked as a wrestler, and commentator, and he was part of the creative team as well. However, some fans didn’t realize Patterson also worked for WWE in the 1970s, and he even was the very first Intercontinental Champion (1979).
                         Tito Santana was a great wrestler, but definitely underrated. He had above-average in-ring skills, and he was charismatic. Santana worked for WWE on a regular basis in the 1980s, wrestling on the mid-card.
                         He even managed to win the Intercontinental Championship twice. However, what most fans don't know, is that Santana actually made his WWE debut in 1979, and that year he teamed with Ivan Putski to win the Tag Team Titles.
      Tony Atlas was one of the first African-American wrestlers to compete and excel in WWE. He won the tag team championship alongside Rocky Johnson in the 1980s. Tony Atlas was known for his strength, power, and agility, which made him a popular wrestler in that decade.
                         Fans usually think Atlas came to WWE in 1981, when he started to wrestle regularly, but in reality, he made his WWE debut in the late 1970s. Tony Atlas came to WWE to break down barriers and make history.
                          Hulk Hogan is one of the most popular wrestlers of all time, he made such a big impact in the industry that even those who know nothing about wrestling have heard of Hulk Hogan.
                         Despite his popularity, some fans didn't realize that Hogan wrestled for WWE in the 1970s. Hogan was in WWE in 1979, after which he worked for the AWA and NJPW until he returned to WWE in late 1983 to build the huge legacy that everyone knows about.
      Ernie Ladd played in the NFL between 1961 and 1968, wearing the uniforms of the Houston Oilers, Kansas City Chiefs, and San Diego Chargers, with whom he even won a championship ring. But Ladd's life was not just about football, it was also about wrestling.
      RELATED: 10 Things Wrestling Fans Should Know About "The Big Cat" Ernie Ladd
                     Ladd wrestled for WWE in the 1970s and faced legendary wrestlers such as Bobo Brazil, Andre The Giant and also challenged then Heavyweight Champion Bruno Sammartino. Ernie Ladd was quite a talented brawler, with outstanding promo skills.
      Dusty Rhodes became a star in the National Wrestling Alliance, where he won numerous titles and delivered several great matches. "The American Dream" wrestled regularly for WWE in 1989 and 1990, but he already had experience in the company.
                         Rhodes participated in a handful of WWE matches in the 1970s, although very few knew about it, and those who did often forget. The highlight of Rhodes' WWE run in the 1970s was his feud with Superstar Billy Graham.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Pro wrestling has evolved a lot since the 1970s, but these matches still hold up surprisingly well. Wrestlers who can excel in longer matches are typically among the best. These wrestlers had the best stamina at their peak. 'Big Poppa Pump' Scott Steiner is one of the most recognizable faces in wrestling. Here are some interesting facts about the WCW & WWE legend. These wrestlers and their bad attitudes were tough to work with! Although these finishing moves wouldn't hurt anyone in real life, wrestling fans still enjoy the popular finishers. Although they may not make much sense, these wrestling gimmicks were still popular with fans!