NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT From the board game version of Divinity: Original Sin to a new Dungeons & Dragons expansion, this summer is looking hot for tabletop gaming. A YouTuber has been scammed into opening what was supposed to be a rare pack of Magic: The Gathering cards but which was anything but. Tabletop gaming classic Dungeons & Dragons has its first ever Lego set, allowing you to build the model and then play as the minifigures. Disney is helping to launch yet another new trading card game, as the galaxy far, far away goes up against the likes of Lorcana and Pokémon. As the fountainhead of interactive entertainment celebrates its golden jubilee GameCentral reminisces on five decades of old school role-playing. The Monday letters page hears from one reader that gave up video games for board games, as one reader recommends old school shooter Prodeus. GameCentral looks forward to a new year of tabletop releases, including board game versions of Metal Gear Solid and Final Fantasy. It doesn’t just have to be video games you play over Christmas and the new year, with options ranging from Dungeons & Dragons to Warhammer. GameCentral takes a look at the year’s crop of horror-themed tabletop games, including everything from Resident Evil to Dungeons & Dragons. Starfield already takes a lot of influences from tabletop games like Traveller but what others could you try if you're in a sci-fi mood?  'Because of Covid there’s interest from people who previously wouldn’t have played games except over Christmas, so I think it opened people up to board games again.' A new one-off rule for playing UNO has split opinion amongst fans, with players describing it as ‘ludicrous’ and ‘illegal.’ It turns out you’ve been playing Monopoly wrong all this time and have overlooked a common but game-changing rule. GameCentral takes a chainblade to the new Warhammer 40k 10th edition rules and the game’s most important new release for years. A reader explains how his entire family got into board games and why it’s all thanks to a local game shop and its helpful customers. The biggest day on the Games Workshop calendar has revealed a bunch of new Warhammer video games, as well as... Powerwash Simulator DLC. If you’re interested in trying a new tabletop Star Wars game then the Shatterpoint miniatures game is one of the best value titles so far. GameCentral gets to play the board game version of Monster Hunter: World expansion Iceborne and its new four-player co-op mechanics. Find out what's popular in beauty, fashion, interiors, gardening and more  With the movie Dungeons & Dragons: Thieves Among Us out soon, GameCentral examines the appeal of tabletop RPGs and how to get into them. GameCentral reviews the latest video game version of board game classic Catan, as it tries to appeal to both new players and existing veterans. GameCentral looks at the 10 most exciting tabletop and board games for the next year, including The Witcher: Old World and Disney Lorcana. GameCentral looks back at the year in tabletop games, from the rise of Henry Cavill’s Warhammer to the best games to play at Christmas. GameCentral presents the top 10 board game and role-playing gifts for this Christmas, including new Dungeons & Dragons and Catan sets. GameCentral recommends 10 current and upcoming spooky tabletop games, from the family friendly Hocus Pocus to Elden Ring: The Board Game.  Get us in your feed