Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Even after the holidays are over-over, we like to shop. That could be the Walt Disney Co. strategy as it hauls out Disney100 merchandise that celebrates a century of creating entertainment in multiple forms, including theme parks. Theme Park Rangers Radar browsed the shelves, but then listened to a podcast with former Imagineering chief Bob Weis and learned about Burmese python handling, from a comfortable distance.Radar is a collection of notes and notables found along the way in Central Florida. It appears on OrlandoSentinel.com on Wednesdays.100 wondersAs whole new line of Disney anniversary merchandise is coming out. Although some people might have Disney World 50th anniversary fatigue, the company has started celebrating the 100th anniversary of the whole dang Walt Disney Co., the world beyond World.These aren’t required purchases, of course. You have the right to stare down that spirit jersey and run the other direction.The Disney100 line revolves around a lilac and silver color motif. Folks will be able to purchase across WDW and online at shopdisney.com. So far, the selections have been the usual lineup of backpacks, apparel, drinking vessels, etc. Here are a few eye-catching anniversary things that caught our eye on a recent Disney Springs outing.
Tumblers+ There was nothing shinier in the house than these Starbucks + Mickey tumblers. The glitz goes all the way up the straw. The description calls this “an allover raised geometric platinum colored design.” Another shopper and I stood and blinked awhile to regain our vision. “I know, right?” was all he said. That was enough. Price: $49.99.
Wee castle+ A snow-capped castle inside a globe does provide an aaaahhh moment. We believe this to be Sleeping Beauty Castle, the iconic structure of Disneyland out west. We never miss a chance to say “tiny little castle,” and this is a more appropriate time than usual. Price: $39.99.


Mouse-ear hat+ I mean, duh, mouse ear hats are a given. The stitching gives me Hollywood Studios logo vibes, but that’s meant in a nice way. Price: $29.99.
Crocs around the clock+ Less nice way: What a Croc. There are several characters involved and it would pair well with the spirit jersey. Or there’s that run in the other direction option. Crocs price: $64.99.
Caps and T-shirts+ Another requirement: T-shirts, which seem to be taking up less and less floor space in Disney stores. Anyway, black is a … warm … option for Florida, but the styling of the characters is fun. Price: $29.99.Weis: Things are looking upBob Weis, former president and global ambassador of and now a recent retiree from Walt Disney Imagineering, is a creative guy and was asked a creative question on the D23 Inside Disney podcast: If you could create any kind of attraction around any Disney IP, and money, time, space wasn’t a issue or factor, what would it be?His answer was pie in sky, so to speak.“Well, my first desire has always been to create a theme park in space,” Weis said. “So if I could do anything I want. … It’s getting to be a pretty good time. Now we have people us there bringing tourists up. So pretty soon we’re going to need a hotel and a theme park. So that’s where I’d start.”To hear the full interview, go to D23.com/podcastPythons ruleOn a recent visit to Orlando Science Center, I spent time with a parrot, a skink and animal curator Shannon Zimmerman, who explained some of the care, feeding and rules of the animal inhabitants.That includes the Burmese python, who I did not meet but makes public appearances at the science center. They are not my spirit animal“Burmese pythons are hugely invasive in Florida and there are many regulations about them,” Zimmerman said. “For us to house her, there are a lot of regulations on the actual guest-interaction time that we’re providing for her. So we document all of the hours and every touch that she receives and every guest that she meets, we document and that is delivered to FWC [Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission] at the end of the year.”Snakes and paperwork, who knew?“I wouldn’t have it any other way. A huge part of my job is to make sure that we’re maintaining that and we have all that necessary permitting and all of that sort of thing,” Zimmerman said. “Without it, it would be a scary world.”
Adam Jacobs performs at Epcot in 2020.Weekend outlookThe Epcot International Festival of the Arts begins Friday.  First up in the Disney on Broadway concert series are Kara Lindsay (“Newsies”) and Kevin Massey (“Tarzan”) on Friday, Monday and Tuesday. Arielle Jacobs and Adam Jacobs (both from “Aladdin”) are set for Saturday, Tuesday and Jan. 18.It’s the last weekend ever for a handful of Universal Studios attractions. Sunday is the final time to experience Woody Woodpecker’s Nuthouse Coaster, Curious George Goes to Town, Fievel’s Playland, DreamWorks Destination and the meet-and-greet area for Shrek and Donkey.SeaWorld Orlando’s “Inside Look” program concludes Saturday and Sunday. There are behind-the-scenes experiences set for the rescue center, aquariums, Pacific Point Preserve, Orca Encounter and others. More info: SeaWorldOrlando.com.Busch Gardens Tampa Bay begins its Mardi Gras event Saturday with Cajun cuisine and “spirited entertainment offerings.” More info: Buschgardens.com/tampa.Fly With an Astronaut tours, featuring NASA veterans Mark Lee and Brian Duffy, are set for Friday-Sunday. More info: kennedyspacecenter.com.What’s on your radar? Email me at dbevil@orlandosentinel.com Radar is a collection of notes and notables found along the way in Central Florida. It appears on OrlandoSentinel.com on Wednesdays. 100 wonders As whole new line of Disney anniversary merchandise is coming out. Although some people might have Disney World 50th anniversary fatigue, the company has started celebrating the 100th anniversary of the whole dang Walt Disney Co., the world beyond World. These aren’t required purchases, of course. You have the right to stare down that spirit jersey and run the other direction. The Disney100 line revolves around a lilac and silver color motif. Folks will be able to purchase across WDW and online at shopdisney.com. So far, the selections have been the usual lineup of backpacks, apparel, drinking vessels, etc. Here are a few eye-catching anniversary things that caught our eye on a recent Disney Springs outing. + There was nothing shinier in the house than these Starbucks + Mickey tumblers. The glitz goes all the way up the straw. The description calls this “an allover raised geometric platinum colored design.” Another shopper and I stood and blinked awhile to regain our vision. “I know, right?” was all he said. That was enough. Price: $49.99. + A snow-capped castle inside a globe does provide an aaaahhh moment. We believe this to be Sleeping Beauty Castle, the iconic structure of Disneyland out west. We never miss a chance to say “tiny little castle,” and this is a more appropriate time than usual. Price: $39.99. + I mean, duh, mouse ear hats are a given. The stitching gives me Hollywood Studios logo vibes, but that’s meant in a nice way. Price: $29.99. + Less nice way: What a Croc. There are several characters involved and it would pair well with the spirit jersey. Or there’s that run in the other direction option. Crocs price: $64.99. + Another requirement: T-shirts, which seem to be taking up less and less floor space in Disney stores. Anyway, black is a … warm … option for Florida, but the styling of the characters is fun. Price: $29.99. Weis: Things are looking up Bob Weis, former president and global ambassador of and now a recent retiree from Walt Disney Imagineering, is a creative guy and was asked a creative question on the D23 Inside Disney podcast: If you could create any kind of attraction around any Disney IP, and money, time, space wasn’t a issue or factor, what would it be? His answer was pie in sky, so to speak. “Well, my first desire has always been to create a theme park in space,” Weis said. “So if I could do anything I want. … It’s getting to be a pretty good time. Now we have people us there bringing tourists up. So pretty soon we’re going to need a hotel and a theme park. So that’s where I’d start.” To hear the full interview, go to D23.com/podcast Pythons rule On a recent visit to Orlando Science Center, I spent time with a parrot, a skink and animal curator Shannon Zimmerman, who explained some of the care, feeding and rules of the animal inhabitants. That includes the Burmese python, who I did not meet but makes public appearances at the science center. They are not my spirit animal “Burmese pythons are hugely invasive in Florida and there are many regulations about them,” Zimmerman said. “For us to house her, there are a lot of regulations on the actual guest-interaction time that we’re providing for her. So we document all of the hours and every touch that she receives and every guest that she meets, we document and that is delivered to FWC [Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission] at the end of the year.” Snakes and paperwork, who knew? “I wouldn’t have it any other way. A huge part of my job is to make sure that we’re maintaining that and we have all that necessary permitting and all of that sort of thing,” Zimmerman said. “Without it, it would be a scary world.” Weekend outlook The Epcot International Festival of the Arts begins Friday.  First up in the Disney on Broadway concert series are Kara Lindsay (“Newsies”) and Kevin Massey (“Tarzan”) on Friday, Monday and Tuesday. Arielle Jacobs and Adam Jacobs (both from “Aladdin”) are set for Saturday, Tuesday and Jan. 18. It’s the last weekend ever for a handful of Universal Studios attractions. Sunday is the final time to experience Woody Woodpecker’s Nuthouse Coaster, Curious George Goes to Town, Fievel’s Playland, DreamWorks Destination and the meet-and-greet area for Shrek and Donkey. SeaWorld Orlando’s “Inside Look” program concludes Saturday and Sunday. There are behind-the-scenes experiences set for the rescue center, aquariums, Pacific Point Preserve, Orca Encounter and others. More info: SeaWorldOrlando.com. Busch Gardens Tampa Bay begins its Mardi Gras event Saturday with Cajun cuisine and “spirited entertainment offerings.” More info: Buschgardens.com/tampa. Fly With an Astronaut tours, featuring NASA veterans Mark Lee and Brian Duffy, are set for Friday-Sunday. More info: kennedyspacecenter.com. What’s on your radar? Email me at dbevil@orlandosentinel.com Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel