A gas stove: Will they still be legal to install if Gov. Murphy's energy plan goes through?

 (AP Photo/Thomas Kienzle, File)AP So are they coming for your gas stove? Or aren’t they? Let us ponder that in light of “The Confessions of St. Augustine.” That’s the autobiography, familiar to every Catholic-school kid, in which the saint describes the temptations of his wild youth and how he dealt with them. “Lord, make me chaste,” the great man prayed. “But not yet.” Our governor didn’t go to Catholic school, but Phil Murphy seems to have picked up that philosophy when it comes to energy policy. We saw that last week when the state Board of Public Utilities postponed action on the regulations needed to achieve the goal Murphy stated in an executive order earlier this year. “I set a goal that 100 percent of the electricity sold in the State be derived from clean sources of electricity by January 1, 2035,” the governor said in a major policy speech in February. That’s the sort of thing that might sound great on the presidential campaign trail, where the governor is likely to end up in the event President Biden realizes he needs to spend more time with his family. But here at home, it might give ammunition to Republicans in a year when all 120 seats in the Legislature are up for grabs. To do great things tomorrow requires action today. And the required action in this case is a move to electrification of homes and commercial buildings. Cooking with gas? Not if Governor Murphy's plan is carried out The Energy Master Plan touted by our governor would drastically reduce natural-gas deliveries and require homeowners to 'electrify everything' according to a key supporter Don’t worry, said the Guv in that big speech: “No one is coming for anyone’s gas stove. No one is walking into anyone’s kitchen. No one is going to be forced to do anything, in any way.” That sounds good. But if the BPU adopts regulations that prohibit the extension of natural gas lines, then any new construction would be forced to rely on electricity for heating and cooling, said Republican state Sen. Tony Bucco of Morris County. In a release on the BPU’s action, Bucco said “there wasn’t a single mention of the expected cost or of the mandates that are likely to be necessary to force the conversion of the 80 percent of New Jersey homes that currently rely on clean natural gas for heating, cooking, and hot water.” When I called him, Bucco said that even if those mandates don’t immediately apply to existing homes, the owners might be required to implement them in remodeling. “They’ll have to move to a completely electrical system and nobody knows what the ultimate cost will be,” he said. I ran that by state Sen. Bob Smith of Piscataway, who is the Democrats’ point man on the environment. Back in 2021 when the administration’s Energy Master Plan was introduced, Smith offered a frank assessment of how it would have to be implemented. “There is a way to deal with this climate-change thing and it is to electrify everything and make sure the electricity is from a renewable source,” Smith told me at the time. In this Senate session, Smith is sponsoring legislation that would put teeth in the Department of Environmental Protection’s enforcement powers. It calls for the DEP to “adopt rules and regulations that restrict the sale and use of fossil fuel types or establish greenhouse emissions limits from any stationary source of greenhouse gas emissions” and also “include any other restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions deemed by the DEP to be necessary.” But what will replace all those sources of power? Many Democrats dodge that question. Not Smith. Nuclear power is the best source for reliable, carbon-free electricity, he said, and Americans need to get over their fear of it. “The people in France are not worried about nuclear power. Seventy percent of their power is nuclear,” Smith said. “France is ahead of its time.” As for New Jersey, we’re behind the times, Smith said. We shut down the Oyster Creek nuclear plant just as carbon emissions were becoming a major issue. Smith told me he just returned from an exploratory trip to the Idaho National Laboratory, which is developing a new technology call the Small Modular Nuclear Reactor. This is a type of reactor made up of modules that can be added up to produce an amount of electricity roughly equal to what Oyster Creek used to put out. But it would take up a lot less space. That’s the sort of thing that should be examined in the plan now before the BPU, he said. “We’re looking for energy policies that could save us from the end of the world,” Smith told me. That sounds a bit apocalyptic to me. I just want to save my gas stove. But at least Smith has a plan. As for Murphy, I would recommend the governor heed another recommendation from Augustine: “You aspire to great things? Begin with little ones.” More: Recent Paul Mulshine columns. Paul Mulshine may be reached at pmulshine@starledger.com. Follow him on Twitter @Mulshine. Find NJ.com Opinion on Facebook and on Twitter If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices