In case you're not a night owl, the 28th Annual Critics Choice Awards were held at the Fairmont Century Plaza in Los Angeles overnight and you know what this means, right? Well, if not, allow me to fill you in. Other than rewarding the greatest talent in showbiz there is with coveted trophies, it means that a whole load of star-studded celebrities took to (yet another) glamorous red carpet with gawjus beauty looks for us to unpack. And under today's microscope is the one and only Michelle Williams, who stepped out with a hairstyle proving its fit for any length lock. For as long as we can remember, the actor has rocked short cropped hair, with it currently sitting just above chin length. Now, as a fellow short-haired girlie, I often wear my locks straight, seeing as a curl will reduce any length I do have, further. However, Michelle's 'S' wave 'do from last night is one that won't have you looking like a 19th-century Victorian child... IYKYK. Michelle's makeup artist, Angela Levin took to Instagram with a before and after process video, showing how she and hairstylist Chris McMillan created such glam. Watch the IG reel below:      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Angela Levin (@angelalevinmakeup) I mean, going from pin-straight locks to an effortless wave is quite the transformation. 'But what is the 'S' wave style?', I hear you ask. Well, it may sound complex but it's quite the opposite; all it entails is using a straightener over strands of hair that have been bent into an 'S' shape. To start, whilst holding a 'C'-like curve, use your tool to carefully tap over the strands to set the shape. Continue by creating a bend in the opposite direction to create a full S-shape, and follow by running over it with the straighter in tapping motions. Forget C's and S's, it's as E Z as can be... sorry. Blue Monday, step aside, for this hairstyle is bound to bring life back into any gloomy January day *whips out hair straightener*. Follow Lia on Instagram.  You Might Also Like A ranking of the very best hair straighteners - according to our Beauty Editors Best party dresses to shop in the UK right now 11 products you'd be mad to miss from the Net A Porter beauty sale New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.