Newly crowned Kia MVP Joel Embiid headlines the All-NBA 1st Team, while MVP runner-up Nikola Jokic lands on the All-NBA 2nd Team. KIA MVP: JOEL EMBIID The Cameroon native bests fellow finalists Nikola Jokic and Giannis Antetokounmpo to win the award for the 1st time in his career.  Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid is the recipient of the Michael Jordan Trophy as the 2022-23 Kia NBA Most Valuable Player. Joel Embiid on winning 1st Kia MVP award: "It took a lot of work and a lot of sacrifice to get here." It gets dusty in Philadelphia as the 76ers' home crowd celebrates Joel Embiid as he receives the Michael Jordan trophy as 2022-23 Kia NBA MVP. The Cameroon native bests fellow finalists Nikola Jokic and Giannis Antetokounmpo to win the award for the 1st time in his career.  The annual award recognizes a current NBA player for pursuing social justice and upholding the NBA's values of equality, respect and inclusion. Jrue Holiday becomes the first 3-time winner of the award, which honors on- and off-court leadership. Paolo Banchero leads the All-Rookie first team as the only unanimous selection for 2022-23. Memphis' Jaren Jackson Jr. leads the Kia All-Defensive first team as the leading vote-getter for 2022-23. Newly crowned Kia MVP Joel Embiid headlines the All-NBA 1st Team, while MVP runner-up Nikola Jokic lands on the All-NBA 2nd Team. Celtics guard Malcolm Brogdon bests Immanuel Quickley and Bobby Portis to take home the inaugural John Havlicek trophy. The Magic forward secures 98 out of 100 1st-place votes to win the award over fellow finalists Jalen Williams and Walker Kessler.
 The Memphis big man -- who led the league in blocks at 3.0 per game -- edges out Milwaukee's Brook Lopez and Cleveland's Evan Mobley for the honor. Markkanen's breakout season yields Kia Most Improved Player honors in addition to his first All-Star appearance. De'Aaron Fox beats out finalists DeMar DeRozan and Jimmy Butler to become the 1st recipient of The Jerry West Award. Mike Brown beats out finalists Mark Daigneault and Joe Mazzulla to become 1st recipient of the Red Auerbach Trophy. Boston's defensive-minded guard becomes the 1st player to win back-to-back NBA Hustle Awards and collects his 3rd career Hustle honor. Thanks to Monte McNair's roster moves, the Kings went from a lottery team in 2021-22 to the Pacific Division champs in 2022-23. The award is presented annually to the player, coach or athletic trainer who shows outstanding service and dedication to the community. Comparing the three finalists for Kia Most Valuable Player with interactive stats visuals. Comparing the finalists for Kia Rookie of the Year with interactive stats visuals. Comparing the finalists for the Kia Most Improved Player with interactive stats visuals. Breaking down the numbers of the three finalists for the Kia Sixth Man of the Year with interactive visualizations. Discover the stories and meet some of the greats that inspired the NBA's newest trophy designs. The Kia MVP, Kia Defensive Player of the Year and more have been remodeled and a new award has been added for the 2022-23 season. The NBA has unveiled 6 new trophies for the Kia Performance Award winners, including the Kia NBA Clutch Player of the Year Award. The trophy honors Kareem Abdul-Jabbar’s legacy and embodies the role of the Social Justice Champion. Take a look back at every Kia NBA MVP award winner in league history.