Estimated total funding for each startup is based on data from PitchBook unless otherwise specified. Recommended by: Esteban Sosnik, Reach Capital Relationship: Investor Total funding: $27.2 million, according to the company What it does: Aprende Institute offers vocational training for the US Hispanic community.  Why it's on the list: While there are several prominent trade and upskilling startups, not all of them offer instruction in Spanish. Aprende Institute offers career training catering to the US Hispanic community, operating "in support of their economic empowerment," said Sosnik. The classes range from culinary training, construction and other vocational trades, cosmetology, and healthcare.  Aprende Institute last raised $22 million in Series A funding in the fall of 2021, led by Valor Capital Group. Recommended by: Steve Kupfer, Reach Capital Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: Unknown What it does: Blooket's platform allows teachers to run interactive educational games for K through 8 students.  Why it's on the list: Founder Ben Stewart started Blooket as a 17-year-old, after finding legacy classroom educational games boring and frustrating, said Kupfer.  Since its creation in 2019, Blooket has become the number one classroom response tool on Instructure's Edtech Top 40 ranking, a ranking of the best education technology tools for teachers published by the company that makes the classroom management software Canvas. "It reminds us just how powerful the curiosity and drive of a 17-year-old student can be, wildly surpassing the usage rates of tools that inspired his foray into entrepreneurship," Kupfer said. Recommended by: Esteban Sosnik, Reach Capital Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $5 million, according to the company What it does: Boddle Learning makes app-based educational math games for elementary school students. Why it's on the list: Boddle Learning lets kids practice their school's math coursework through interactive games. The startup's current strategy is to grow its customer base by giving schools free access to its games, and if interested, parents can pay for additional access at home, said Sosnik.  Boddle Learning raised $3 million in seed funding, and currently has over 1 million daily active student users, said Boddle's cofounder Clarence Tan. Recommended by: Steve Kupfer, Reach Capital Relationship: Investor Total funding: $3.9 million, according to the company  What it does: Cartwheel matches schools with mental healthcare providers to virtually meet with students.  Why it's on the list: The youth mental health crisis has left schools reeling, and many administrators are looking for ways that schools can still support students after they lose pandemic-era federal funds, said Kupfer.   Cartwheel can be an efficient, scalable provider of these services for schools, he said. "Cartwheel supports all students, including those who have historically been left out —including uninsured families and those covered by Medicaid — through a responsive business model that quickly bridges care from schools to community providers, personalizing evidence-based, short-term therapy, and threading schools-based budgets with private insurance reimbursements," said Kupfer.  Cartwheel closed its $3.9 million seed funding round in the fall of 2022 from investors like General Catalyst alongside Reach Capital, Able Partners, and BoxGroup, according to CB Insights. Recommended by: Shauntel Garvey, Reach Capital Relationship: Investor Total funding: $5.1 million, according to the company What it does: Curipod uses AI to let teachers create and deliver interactive lessons with tools like embedded polls, short answer questions, and drawings. Why it's on the list: "Educators are hungry to learn about and integrate AI into their teaching practices, and Curipod provides an easy on-ramp to generative AI for educators and enables them to save time on lesson planning and increase student engagement in the classroom," said Garvey.   Curipod just launched at the beginning of this year and over 100,000 teachers have already signed up, Garvey said. The startup recently closed a $4.6 million seed round, said founder Jens Seip, bringing its total venture funding to over $5 million.  Recommended by: Deborah Quazzo, GSV Relationship: Investor Total funding: $24.95 million, according to the company What it does: Daybreak Health provides virtual mental healthcare and behavioral therapy from certified providers for students in schools.  Why it's on the list: The repercussions of the student-mental health crisis are ongoing, and Daybreak Health's model of in-school counseling is important for meeting students where they spend the bulk of their days, said founder Alex Alvarado: "If you want to create change for kids a lot of it has to happen through the public school system." Daybreak Health closed a $13 million Series B round in August led by Union Square Ventures with participation from Lux Capital, Maven Ventures, Lightspeed Venture Partners, and Y Combinator, to expand its operations into more schools nationwide. Recommended by: Deborah Quazzo, GSV Relationship: Investor Total funding: $3 million, according to the company What it does: Digest.ai is an AI-powered studying assistant for students that can summarize notes and textbooks for students and offer study tips.   Why it's on the list: The startup was founded by a recent high school graduate, Quddus Pativada, when he was only 17, who set out to build an all-in-one AI assistant for learning that would pull answers for student questions from specific data sets, like academic journals, Pativada told TechCrunch.   Since its launch, Digest.ai has raised $3 million in funding, Pativada told Insider. Some of the startup's backers include GSV and Mark Cuban. Recommended by: Katelyn Donnelly, Avalanche VC Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: Undisclosed What it does: EdVisorly streamlines and simplifies the transfer process between community colleges and four-year institutions for students.   Why it's on the list: The founder, Manny Smith, is a dedicated and talented operator, said Donnelly, who has negotiated credit deals and is on the brink of closing a few large system-wide contracts. "He is bringing access and equity to this corner where it is much needed," she said.  EdVisorly has raised a pre-seed round according to Crunchbase, from investors including Rough Draft Ventures, Dorm Room Fund, Courtyard Ventures, and Diverse Angels. Recommended by: Shauntel Garvey, Reach Capital Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $2 million, according to the company What it does: FoondaMate is an AI assistant for students that advises and creates study materials customized to a student's curriculum via WhatsApp.  Why it's on the list: By using WhatsApp as the basis for connecting with students, FoondaMate is able to reach students all over the world that otherwise wouldn't have access to online tutoring that requires a desktop computer or laptop. Students can chat with the FoondaMate tutor through WhatsApp on their phones, which can provide custom help with homework assignments and create study guides.  The South African startup has grown rapidly with over 2 million student users in over 180 countries since its launch, said Garvey. "The company uses proprietary models trained on country-specific curriculum to provide hyper-personalized support," she said.  Recommended by: Allison Baum Gates, SemperVirens Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $39.7 million, according to the company What it does: Forge provides apprenticeship programs and tech tools to fast track workers into skilled trades.  Why it's on the list: Forge is "taking a really interesting vertical-integrated approach to building a skilled workforce in the trades," said Baum Gates. The startup offers trade training programs to recent graduates, exposing them to new tech-enabled learning tools. Forge raised a $17 million Series A round at the end of 2021, led by Eclipse Ventures, according to Crunchbase. Recommended by: Ian Chiu, Owl Ventures Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $69.5 million, according to the company What it does: Hack the Box is a cybersecurity upskilling platform for employers and IT students.  Why it's on the list: Hack the Box is addressing a large and growing problem around cybersecurity training by making it more accessible and embedding gamified lessons and simulations into their curriculum, said Chiu.  Currently, the startup serves over 1.7 million customers, including students from over 1,500 enterprises, universities, and governments, said Chiu, and it raised a $55 million Series B round in January, led by Carlyle. Recommended by: Ebony Brown, Rethink Education Relationship: Investor Total funding: $10 million, according to the company What it does: Ignite! Reading partners with schools to provide virtual, evidence-based reading tutoring for elementary school students.   Why it's on the list: Ignite! Reading is tackling the big issue of falling student literacy after the pandemic shutdowns. "Literacy is a major problem in the US, with 40% of first grade students and 35% of second graders scoring well below grade level on reading assessments in 2020," said Brown, who invested in Ignite! Reading's $10 million Series A round.   The company's pilots show that students in the program make an average of 2.5 weeks of reading progress for every week in the program, showing that their evidence-based lesson plans are making a difference for students already, Brown said. Recommended by: Ian Chiu, Owl Ventures Relationship: Investor Total funding: $40.8 million What it does: Interplay Learning offers online simulation-based training for trade school students.  Why it's on the list: Skilled trade learners are still largely underserved by edtech companies, said Chiu, and Interplay Learning is working to bridge that gap.  In 2023, the company launched an AI-powered advisor for skilled trades called SAM, brought on former Coursera CMO Kim Caldbeck as a new board member, and continued to expand its Track to the Trades partnership with Lowe's,, said Chiu, which provides tuition-free education courses and upfront tuition funding for trade skill certifications. Recommended by: Deborah Quazzo, GSV Relationship: Investor Total funding: $5.5 million, according to the company What it does: Kyron Learning uses AI to offer supplemental virtual lessons from top teachers around the country for students at home.  Why it's on the list: Kyron Learning's founder, Rajen Sheth, previously ran AI for the cloud and Google Classrooms at Google, Quazzo noted. The startup is taking a novel approach to AI teaching assistants by combining conversational AI with pre-recorded video lesson plans for students. So when students have questions about the coursework, there's a built-in AI tutor to guide them.  Sheth announced the company's seed round in September 2022 via a Linkedin post, highlighting GSV and Owl Ventures as the co-leads on the round. Recommended by: Ebony Brown, Rethink Education Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $150.5 million, according to the company What it does: Labster makes software to run virtual science labs allowing students to  conduct lab experiments.  Why it's on the list: The efficacy of Labster is impressive, Brown told Insider, citing that "80% of high school and university STEM students said Labster made them more likely to continue enrolling in STEM classes." Labster closed $47 million in additional venture capital funding in April 2022. Recommended by: Amit Patel, Owl Ventures Relationship: Investor Total funding: $152.5 million What it does: Leap supports students from all over the world to match with the right study abroad programs or international universities.  Why it's on the list: "The overseas education market is fragmented where there is no single one-stop solution that helps students navigate all the steps of counseling, test-prep, and financing," Patel said.   "Leap is creating a comprehensive platform that addresses all of the needs of students and is well-positioned to support the increasing demand for studying abroad, especially as more countries and companies around the world are becoming further integrated into the global economy," he continued.  Leap raised a $75 million Series D round in June 2022 led by Owl Ventures, which brings its total venture funding to $152.5 million, according to PitchBook. Recommended by: Leeor Mushin, Floodgate Relationship: No financial interest Total funding: $5.1 million, according to the company What it does: Leland is a virtual coaching platform for students and young professionals to help them level up their careers, with resources for getting into school programs or providing practice for standardized tests.  Why it's on the list: Leland's revenue has significantly increased over the past year, and the startup launched new coaching categories like product management and consulting. The team also made senior hires from LinkedIn, Bain, and Atlassian. Mushin said.  The company raised $4.1 million in seed funding in May 2022,  Recommended by: Amit Patel, Owl Ventures Relationship: No financial interest  Total funding: $135 million, according to the company What it does: Lovevery makes educational toys for children ages 0 to five based on academic research.  Why it's on the list: While not an investor, Patel is a personal fan of Lovevery's play kits, and has purchased them for his two young children.  "Their play kits have consistently been among my children's favorite toys, and it is evident that the Lovevery team has a nuanced understanding of each of the developmental stages from baby to toddler to preschooler," he said. Recommended by: Evan Baehr, Learn Capital Relationship: Investor Total funding: $29 million What it does: Merlyn Mind is an AI assistant for educators that uses its own education-specific large language models to generate slides, quizzes, and lesson plans for teachers.     Why it's on the list: In 2023, the company announced the readiness of their LLM platform and also released some of their cutting edge models to open source. Merlyn Mind's platform outperforms the general purpose competitive LLM platforms from big tech on an impressive range of edu-specific tasks and in doing so, illustrates both the potential and the actuality for large language models to transform teaching and learning, Baehr said.  The company has its own assistants and also works as a backend player to AI-empower content owners and developers of edtech applications up and down the landscape of user and focus areas, he added.  Recommended by: Katelyn Donnelly, Avalanche VC Relationship: Investor Total funding: $5.75 million, according to the company  What it does: Odyssey runs a platform to help implement and administer education savings account programs for states and parents.  Why it's on the list: Odyssey's all-encompassing support platform helps both families and government education providers figure out their eligibility and process education savings accounts quickly, said Donnelly. "This year, parents in Iowa learned about their ESA eligibility in less than 1 second after submitting their application, and Odyssey flawlessly processed more than 29,000 applications in its first month of operation," she said.  Odyssey is backed by edtech investors as well as prominent generalist venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz, which led the startup's $4.75 million seed round last fall. Recommended by: Tory Patterson, Owl Ventures Relationship: Not investor Total funding: $37 million What it does: Podium Education partners with universities to offer students asynchronous courses focused on the development of skills like software development, data analytics, and marketing.  Why it's on the list: By offering video instruction and project-based learning in subjects like web development or marketing, Podium Education's curriculum helps students develop technical skills that will translate directly to the workforce. "I think this creates the long sought-after bridge between higher ed and industry, which enhances students' ability to enter the workforce with momentum after college," Patterson told Insider. "I love this model."  Podium Education has raised $37 million in venture capital to date. Recommended by: Leeor Mushin, Floodgate Relationship: Investor Total funding: $8 million, according to the company What it does: Polygence matches high school students with mentors to work on research projects one-on-one.  Why it's on the list: Polygence has already helped over 2,000 students complete unique projects this year, said Mushin, and the team recently expanded its product line to include lower priced offerings to increase access to less affluent students.  "Under the guidance of their mentors, Polygence students are placed in the driver's seat of their education and they engage in academic fields across STEM, social sciences, and humanities to showcase final projects as peer-reviewed publications, op-eds, GitHub repositories, and conference presentations," said Mushin. Recommended by: Shauntel Garvey, Reach Capital and Allison Baum Gates, SemperVirens Relationship: Garvey is an investor, Baum Gates is not.  Total funding: $7.8 million, according to the company What it does: Stepful provides training and placement for workers looking to enter the healthcare industry.  Why it's on the list: Stepful was nominated by two VCs this year, who both noted the startup's timely mission given the healthcare industry's staffing shortage. "The average hospital has turned over more than 100% of their staff in the last five years and provider burnout has led to a 19% increase in reported adverse events in medical settings," said Baum Gates. "This is a huge problem and a growing need that will impact us all unless we figure out how to increase the supply of qualified healthcare professionals."  Stepful's graduates have an 80% completion rate of its coursework, said Garvey, and the startup has secured partnerships with top ranking healthcare institutions. Recommended by: Allison Baum Gates, SemperVirens Relationship: Investor Total funding: $5.3 million, according to the company  What it does: Violet helps healthcare providers educate their clinical teams to become more culturally competent for all of their patients.  Why it's on the list: Baum Gates signed on to lead Violet's $4.1 million seed round in August 2022 through her fund SemperVirens, and took a board seat. "Violet's provider credentialing platform is the foundation for delivering better health outcomes for all," she said in a press release at the time.  And health practitioners using Violet's training program say they're seeing good results. 84% of clinicians learning with Violet report increased inclusivity with patients, AlleyWatch reported. Recommended by: Ian Chiu, Owl Ventures Relationship: Investor Total funding: $47.3 million What it does: Workera provides AI data analysis for managers on how to best mentor and upskill business teams for corporate and government customers.    Why it's on the list: Workera is led by field experts, including its CEO Kian Katanforoosh who teaches AI at Stanford, and has secured large enterprise clients like Siemens and Samsung as well as government clients like the US Air Force, said Chiu.  In 2023, the team successfully raised a $23.5 million Series B round in a "very difficult" fundraising environment, said Chiu, who called it "a testament to the tremendous need around upskilling in a dynamic labor market." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to