  Boeing has increased renewable-energy use in its factories, purchased more sustainable aviation fuel for commercial operations and continues significant investments in aerospace technologies to reduce fuel use, emissions and noise. These and other accomplishments are detailed in Boeing’s 2023 Sustainability Report, released today to share the company’s vision and path toward a sustainable aerospace future. Titled “Sustainable Aerospace Together,” this report provides an annual update on company efforts to advance environmental stewardship, human development and inclusion. This includes addressing the company’s sustainability goals on employee safety and well-being; global aerospace safety; community engagement; and equity, diversity and inclusion, in addition to sustainable operations and clean technology innovation. “Boeing continues to invest and make progress on our journey to achieve a more sustainable aerospace future,” said Chris Raymond, Boeing Chief Sustainability Officer. “As we enter a new era of sustainable aerospace, we are committed to documenting our progress and outlining our path forward with transparency so our industry can progress, together.” Boeing’s sustainability accomplishments in this year’s report include: Introducing and publicly launching the Boeing Cascade Climate Impact Model, a data-modeling tool that quantifies strategies to reduce aviation emissionsSelection by NASA to develop and flight test a full-scale Transonic Truss-Braced Wing Sustainable Flight Demonstrator airplaneCelebrating the 10th anniversary of the Boeing ecoDemonstrator program, which has evaluated about 230 technologies to reduce fuel use, emissions and noise. The 2022 program tested 30 new technologies to help decarbonize aviation on Boeing’s 777-200 test bed.Purchasing 2 million gallons (7.6 million liters) of SAF for Boeing’s commercial airplane operations  Achieving 35% renewable electricity use across the company in 2022 by purchasing renewable electricity and renewable energy credits. This is up from 21% in 2021.Deploying a voluntary industry approach to supplier sustainability assessments established by the IAEG and implemented by EcoVadis Additional accomplishments on safety, diversity, equity and inclusion and Boeing’s community efforts can be found in the 2023 Chief Aerospace Safety Officer Report, 2023 Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Report and the Boeing 2023 Community Impact Portfolio.The full report has more information about our sustainability accomplishments and goals. Learn more about Boeing's sustainability commitments, partnerships and efforts at https://www.boeing.com/principles/sustainability. © 2000 - 2024 Al Bawaba (www.albawaba.com) Boeing is the world's largest aerospace company and leading manufacturer of commercial jetliners, defense, space and security systems, and service provider of aftermarket support. As America’s biggest manufacturing exporter, the company supports airlines and U.S. and allied government customers in more than 150 countries. Boeing products and tailored services include commercial and military aircraft, satellites, weapons, electronic and defense systems, launch systems, advanced information and communication systems, and performance-based logistics and training. Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content Subscribe  