Comparing basic dormant accounts on Company Search: e.g.:  https://find-and-update.company-information.service.gov.uk/company/09887... to some filed with https://www.cro.ie/ and it looks like the Irish ones tend to be a bit more combersome.  Can someone confirm? Or is it much of a muchness?  Is there some really basic Irish dormant accounts somewhere that I can compare to?  Any I've seen are a lot more bulky than e.g. the 2 pager linked above. I guess my question is, can you do away with the following on Irish accounts, the same as with UK: (by adding a few statements to the bottom of the BS) X?  Directors and Other Information X?  Directors report X?  Directors Responsibilities Statement X?  SoCI (or not even mention that there is no transactions therefore not provising a SoCI) X?  SoCE X? Notes to Financial Statements There's nothing helpful in your links but my understanding is that Irish dormant accounts are produced to the same standards as active companies. It's just that there's not a lot happening at a dormant company. The first link brings you to a dormant company - from here, you can click on the View PDF link: 25 Jul 2022
Accounts for a dormant company made up to 30 November 2021
View PDF  This shows you what UK dormant accounts tend to look like. The 2nd link is just for reference. Yeah -I've seen a few UK dormant company accounts though, so not really helpful. I think what you mean to say is:  I'm familiar with dormant accounts like the one in your link blah blah blah. Or maybe I should have foreseen what accounts you've already seen? But anyway, thanks so much for your views buddy. I'll keep in mind that any links I share in future must be previously unseen for every single reader in case they're already familiar with them.  I think what you mean to say is:  I'm familiar with dormant accounts like the one in your link blah blah blah. Or maybe I should have foreseen what accounts you've already seen? But anyway, thanks so much for your views buddy. I'll keep in mind that any links I share in future must be previously unseen for every single reader in case they're already familiar with them.  Well, what I'm saying is that 99% of forum members will have seen UK dormant accounts and maybe 2% will have seen Irish dormant accounts.