HAMILTON, NJ — (BUSINESS WIRE) — Since building project owners fund, own and operate the completed assets,  they can have a major influence on driving key project delivery trends  in the construction industry. A new Dodge Construction Network  study of large organizations (with annual construction projects  totaling $100M or more) reveals that these owners are rapidly embracing  digital tools and processes and are increasingly requiring their project  teams to use them throughout design and construction.    The Optimizing Construction Technology for Large Owners SmartMarket Brief, produced in partnership with Avicado Construction Technology Services, examines the use of technology for eight key processes that owners  conduct during the lifecycle of a construction project, from early  planning through project closeout.   Over 70% of owners engaged in vertical building projects report improved  budget, schedule and quality performance as well as higher satisfaction  by their end users due to their use of technology. Owners of civil  projects lag slightly behind them, but around half or more report the  same benefits, which is particularly important as a wave of new  infrastructure projects is being launched.    Owners using technology face a common challenge of how to access,  organize and use the data being collected for greater analytical  insights and ongoing process improvements. Many report that:    Effective integration between technology solutions is critical to optimize the value of construction technology for owners.    “We’re excited to see large owners are capturing construction data to  help them better understand project and program performance,” said  Avidahn Levin, President of Avicado. “By adopting fully integrated  digital workflows, they can unlock the power of this data to improve  project outcomes. This survey validates our belief that owners who fully  optimize their construction technology solutions see successful  outcomes. Investing in internal dedicated resources or construction  technology consultants, to bring best practices for technology  implementation and adoption, speeds time to value for construction  owners.”    To address their data issues, over 90% report they are developing  data-related requirements for project team members and seeking to  improve data exchange with them.    “As owners increasingly prioritize digital project delivery, designers  and contractors need to expand their digital capabilities and engagement  to remain competitive,” says Steve Jones, senior director of industry  insights research at Dodge Construction Network. “The study makes it  clear that digital project delivery is rapidly becoming expected by  large owners. While this is an exciting prospect for improving  industry-wide performance, it will require that every company on a  project be ready, willing and able to participate effectively in  integrated digital workflows, increasingly dictated by the needs of the  owner.”    For more information about the use of technology for projects by owners,  the benefits they achieve, the challenges they face and the ways to  increase the value they experience, the Optimizing Construction Technology for Large Owners SmartMarket Brief is available for download here.  