Can a director (and owner) of a limited company invoice the company for services provided? The company puts on small music festivals and the director provided stage management services. Am I correct in thinking they can as long as they're also self employed, offering these services to other clients? Thanks  I always thought the answer was no. I have client who do it however. I’m finding so many conflicting answers!  I’m finding so many conflicting answers!  Tell us more about the services. Providing services as a third party is always iffy and open to challenge. Providing services is what directors are supposed to do for their companies. I'm not saying you wouldn't win your case but make sure you actually have a case to win. For instance, does he just supply management labour or does he provide, for example, sound equipment as well? Hard to see how "a director (and owner) of a limited company" (which suggests OMB) can contract himself as an independent s-e tradesman.
If the company was bigger, and he recused himself (as a director) from proposals and then awarding of contract, then I could follow the logic (although P Eye is full of such stories of conflict of interest so probably not wise unlike you thrive on risk). Oh and obviously, watch out for claiming of costs that accidentally contaminate the company accounts and s-e accounts! Sounds like this is just an easy way for a non financial type of person to track what they think their Ltd company probably owes them through the year. I would post the invoices to the Directors Loan Account and then have  a conversation about tax efficient remuneration (Dividends, PAYE, NI Contributions etc). This is probably what they think they are paying you for! Difficult for the amounts charged as "self-employment" to not be considered remuneration of the directorship. See Petrol Services Ltd v HMRC UKFTT 773 case. This question is asked quite often in the creative industries, sometimes because Ltd cos in that industry are not (as described in this OP) private share cos but cos Ltd by guarantee, a difference which makes this modus operandi more common and easier to justify.  But where the co is a share co, as others have said, it is i) much harder to justify but also ii) almost certainly not the most tax-efficient way of managing things. That is basically correct yes, example that I always use is my own, if I am a self employed accountant offering services to a number of clients, there is no reason why I cannot offer those same services to a company that I am a Director of. To be clear, these are not the duties of being a Director because they would fall under PAYE.  But you have to be very clear as to what are the duties of being a Director and which are not, in my example one could argue that preparing accounts is a duty of the Directorship, I would argue that is true only to a point. Be careful to charge the correct market rate for the services provided and also question whether there are genuine services being provided to the company, and of course whether this is best for tax and NI. And if you cannot be crystal clear, avoid the murky water.   Can a director (and owner) of a limited company invoice the company for services provided? The company puts on small music festivals and the director provided stage management services.   This is likely to be 'earnings', as the services are all connected and it will be difficult to argue there is indeed a wall separating what the one-man-band Ltd does and what the director does.  Am I correct in thinking they can as long as they're also self employed, offering these services to other clients? Thanks   That may help, but not enough @GeorgeAll     Perhaps it would have helped if I had also asked you *why* the person who is doing this thinks it's a good idea. In most of the cases I have discussed, the answer reveals a misunderstanding about something or other (or possibly something worse).  As I said above, there are only narrow circumstances where there is conceivably anything to be gained by doing this, even before you get to whether it's legitimate or not. I have two hairdressing salons that trade as limited companies. The directors are also self employed stylists and have exactly the same contracts as the other stylists in the salon. Are the responses here suggesting that the directors payments as stylists would be questioned by HMRC. This would also have implications for VAT if it was the case. I think that is exactly what is being said. HMRC consider that there are only two exceptions to applying PAYE to payments to directors, one of which is where the director is a member of a trading partnership. No. I cannot think of any circumstances where the arrangement would work or be upheld by HMRC. I see no issue in a director being independently self employed, as long as his self employment is genuine and meets the criteria. Being self employed with your own company is a recipe for trouble. That is absolutely nothing to stop an individual, or any other legal entity, charging a limited company for services provided as a self employed person. As been noted regarding the petrol station case, some services provided by a director are those attributable only to a director and therefore cannot be charged for under a self-employed basis. Any owner managed limited companies, and sometimes only having a sole director shareholder, can be charged by the individual for self-employment services provided. So long as the services provided are not under an employee-employer relationship (of  a contract of service) then the individual can charge their own limited company for contract for services provided. I take an example of a limited company that provides general practise accounting services. I may take a salary, up to the National Insurance threshold, and then take the rest of my remuneration as dividend. However, there is absolutely nothing stopping me charging my company for providing my technical accounting services, on a self-employed basis. e.g. accounts preparation and Tax Return preparation services. My limited company is under no obligation whatsoever to provide me with work, as a third party. I am also under no obligation to provide my services like an employee. I will probably use the computer and software of the company, rather than bringing my own computer, because this is the computer and software that the company that I decided to offer my services for has provided to me and I must use this in the performance of my self employment role. Making a sensible charge for the provision of my labour to my own limited company is a perfectly accepted as a self-employment charge. I think the nominal salary, up to the National Insurance threshold, is more than enough to cover my services as a director and officer of the company. The important thing to note is the relationship between the company and the individual providing their services. With your own limited company, you can structure the relationship as you wish. What if I provide non-practise services e.g. marketing, design, website writing, blogging services to my limited company. Can I not charge for this as a self employed basis, just like anyone could? In fact, from a taxation perspective there can be a real advantage in making a charge, up to £12,570 as a self-employed person, to your own limited company. There is no Class 2 or Class 4 National Insurance. I receive my state pension credit through my salary. I then take the balance of my profits as dividends. Have you agreed this treatment with HMRC, who appear to take a very different view? https://www.taxinsider.co.uk/can-directors-be-consultants-to-their-own-c... https://library.croneri.co.uk/navigate-taxb/po-heading-id_Dscb523NA0ibTJ... Pretty clear from the example given by Croner, very similar to my own example above taxinsider: "The key test is whether similar services are offered to other clients, not just the close company." So, clear ... as final 4 words of your previous comment - "avoid the murky water"!