


Travel Daily - Informing, connecting and developing the world’s travel industry professionals.

 Zoho Corporation, a global technology company, unveiled its new collaboration experience, Trident, as well as strengthened collaboration technologies to offer businesses easier ways to communicate across channels, reduce tool-ambiguity, and improve an organization’s overall digital adoption. Establishing itself as a central work hub or virtual headquarters, Zoho Workplace is a unified office platform that combines collaboration, productivity, and communications tools. It is now a flexible, full-featured business mail and cloud office suite that is built on a common data model and unified through search and AI, enabling users to operate collaboratively and seamlessly through applications. Commenting on the continued innovation, Gibu Mathew, VP and GM of Zoho APAC notes, “In the past year, Zoho Workplace adoption has accelerated in the APAC region as businesses of all sizes transition to digital-forward, hybrid work. With a clear focus on continued innovation, Zoho is well-positioned to be a growth partner for businesses. The goal of Zoho Workplace is to enable businesses to unify their work to a point where the line between apps disappears. It’s heartening to see so many new businesses join the Zoho family, using Zoho Workplace as their customizable center of gravity.” Zoho Workplace has grown 38% year-over-year in APAC and now has more than 16 million users worldwide. This substantial growth is attributed to increasing business demand for simplified, streamlined solutions that maintain utmost standards for user privacy as well as rising costs from other collaboration platform providers. Additionally, migrations from Google, Microsoft and GoDaddy to Zoho Workplace almost doubled in 2022. Here’s a look at what’s new:   ...there are many ways you can work with us to advertise your company and connect to your customers. Our team can help you design and create an advertising campaign We can also organize a real life or digital event for you and find thought leader speakers as well as industry leaders, who could be your potential partners, to join the event. We also run some awards programmes which give you an opportunity to be recognized for your achievements during the year and you can join this as a participant or a sponsor. Let us help you drive your business forward with a good partnership! Yes, contact me 
I want to download the media kit  
		Comments are closed.	 

						 POPULAR STORIES					
  

				Hotel Indigo opens second property in Indonesia			

  

				For the top choice in business hotels in Manila – it’s…			

  

				Richard Stolz highlights detailed project planning and close…			

  

				Philippines named best diving destination at 2024 Diving…			

 Welcome, Login to your account. 




Sign in with Google

  Powered by wp-glogin.com Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you. Welcome back, Log in to your account. Recover your password. SIGN UP FOR FREE Be part of our community of seasoned travel and hospitality industry professionals from all over the world.