View this photo on Instagram You can see the rest of the series here. You can see the whole series here. And to keep up with all of Alper's amazing AI digital art, follow him on Instagram! Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. The answer may not be what you’re expecting. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. Rick Wilson, a co-founder of the anti-Trump Lincoln Project, said the former president has an "endless pattern" of "utter contempt" toward the armed forces. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Souths are set to come down hard on Latrell Mitchell and demand change. Read more here. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The tragic discovery is just one of a number of similar examples in recent times. The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. The former president described his proposal to impose tariffs on foreign-made products as a tax that "doesn't affect our country." A club legend says a big call needs to be made on the Eels captain. More here. Brwa Shorsh shoved a man onto the tracks for ‘revenge’ because he gave him a ‘dirty look’ Retired Staff Sgt. Ryan Marti enlisted in the Army National Guard before he even graduated high school, just like his football coach and teacher, future Minnesota governor Tim Walz. Another of Walz’s former students, Lt. Col. Jonathan Jaqua, also joined the Guard after graduating from Mankato West High School in southern Minnesota. The Aussie tennis player was banished by the chair umpire. Read why here. The former president shared a number of fake "Swifties for Trump" pictures including one that's clearly labelled "satire."