Dublin-born, London-based artist/producer Michael Orange aka Feather Beds has announced his third album Softer Measures with the release of his new single Really Disney. We asked him the BIG questions . . . "It's about what is real and what isn't. The version of ourselves we present over reality," Orange says of Really Disney. We need your consent to load this YouTube contentWe use YouTube to manage extra content that can set cookies on your device and collect data about your activity. Please review their details and accept them to load the content.Manage Preferences Softer Measures will be released this summer and the nine-track record will be Feather Beds’ first album release since 2017. Having been based in Montreal for a few years and then back to Dublin, the new LP sees Orange in London full-time and adopting a more austere approach to song writing by incorporating elements of noise and drone alongside a backdrop of jangly guitars, homemade samples, and washed-out harmonies. Orange takes inspiration from math and prog rock, with unconventional time signatures hidden under the melodic surface of his music. Tell us three things about yourself . . .  I'm from Dublin, but live in London, I'm a big snooker fan and my favourite meal is eggs benedict. How would you describe your music?  Probably some sort of mix of dream pop, electronic, shoegaze, experimental - basically the product of an obsessive 30+ years of absorbing all sorts of different stuff. Who are your musical inspirations?   Too many to mention - I like anything that feels completely authentic and that takes me away. Some favourites of the last few years for me would be Jonathan Bree, Tsone, Gold Celeste and Teebs. What was the first gig you ever went to?  Therapy? in The Olympia when I was about 14. One of my mates got kicked out for crowd surfing. What was the first record you ever bought?  I got Parklife by Blur and Monster by R.E.M. on cassette on the same day when I was 11. I'm sure I had some awful stuff before that, East 17 or something. What's your favourite song right now?   Courtesy Call by Omni. Great band. Favourite lyric of all time? "Driving in your car, Oh, please don't drop me home, Because it's not my home, it's their home, And I'm welcome no more" - There Is a Light That Never Goes Out by The Smiths If you could only listen to one song for the rest of your life, what would it be?   You're So Pretty by Field Music. I made this recording/video with David Brewis from Field Music three months into lockdown in 2020. That's how much I love the tune. Where can people find your music/more information?  On all of the usual spots - Bandcamp, Instagram, Twitter, Spotify, etc. Also on the Strange Brew website.  © RTÉ 2024. RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Media. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
 Images Courtesy of Getty Images.
