Recognizing the crucial role that internet access and digital literacy play in socio-economic development, Globe is committed to bridging the digital divide in the Philippines through its latest innovative solution, Globe At Home GFiber Prepaid. GFiber Prepaid is designed to bring fast and reliable internet service to every Filipino household through its affordable fiber connectivity. While digital connectivity has become a ubiquitous part of modern living, not all communities have equal access to its benefits. According to a joint study by Thinking Machines and the Asian Development Bank, the average internet speed disparity between the wealthiest and poorest cities in the country was a significant 21.03 Mbps as of 2020. Customers may also find it costly to connect to fiber, plus having to deal with the usual lock-in periods for postpaid plans, potential bill shock, and the need for documentary requirements. Moreover, slow internet connection often leads to higher costs and more time spent online, making online access unaffordable and impractical for many Filipino families. This lack of reliable high-speed internet has curtailed opportunities for remote work, distance learning, and e-commerce. Globe aims to dismantle these barriers by offering a fast and reliable solution that is not only affordable but also fast and reliable with flexible payment terms. With GFiber Prepaid, households can experience fiber-speed internet through an array of flexible plan options and without lock-in periods. Through this service, customers can load up based on their browsing needs and what they can afford. GFiber Prepaid is set to widen the market for fiber in the country and empower Filipino families with a more robust internet connection. For a one-time introductory fee of P1,499, customers will get seven days of unlimited internet, inclusive of installation. On-demand UNLIMITED promos such as GFiberSURF299 for seven days, GFiberSURF549 for 15 days, and GFiberSURF999 for 30 days are also available.  The new offering also comes in a fully digital experience through the GlobeOne app, where customers may access information on the latest promos, bills payments, customer support and account management, among others. Further extending the reach of its service, Globe has partnered with GCash to offer a Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) option via GCredit and GGives, ensuring that fast  internet connection is within reach for even more Filipino families. “GFiber Prepaid is more than just a product, it’s our commitment to empowering every Filipino to thrive in this digital era. It aims to bridge the digital divide and democratize internet access,” said Raymond Policarpio, Vice President of Globe at Home Broadband Business. “We are also bent on equipping our kababayans with the necessary digital literacy skills to navigate and maximize the digital space safely and effectively.” GFiber Prepaid is a critical enabler in Globe’s commitment to advancing digital literacy across the Philippines.  Through GFiber Prepaid, Globe aims to empower individuals and communities with the knowledge and skills to use digital platforms efficiently and responsibly. This includes building digital skills, promoting online safety, and fostering digital entrepreneurship. The company is dedicated not only to contributing to individual growth but also sparking a digital revolution that can accelerate nationwide progress. GFiber Prepaid is a significant step towards creating a more digitally inclusive Philippines where no one is left behind. To learn more about Globe At Home GFiber Prepaid, download the GlobeOne app now via glbe.co/GLBOne. © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.