The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 As we age, sleep can become elusive, making it hard to get a night of restful sleep. In fact, about one-third of U.S. adults don’t get enough sleep, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)[1]Sleep and Sleep Disorders. Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Accessed 1/31/2023. . And people who consistently sleep fewer than seven hours a night are at higher risk for certain chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, obesity, heart disease and depression. An adjustable bed may help. Once reserved for hospitals and luxury hotels, adjustable beds are increasingly available for home use. “We talk frequently about beds and other technologies,” says Christopher Winter, M.D., a neurologist, sleep expert and author of The Sleep Solution: Why Your Sleep is Broken and How to Fix It, who sees many older people for sleep difficulties. To choose the best adjustable beds for older adults, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on nearly 70 products from top brands, evaluating them based on price, movement options, special features, shopper convenience and more. We compared all models in a queen size for fair price comparisons. Read on to see which beds made our list. Note: Prices are accurate as of the publication date. The Sven & Son Classic Series Adjustable Bed Base offers top-of-the-line features, more than 20 of which can be controlled via a remote, all for an affordable price. The bed frame comes in four standard sizes—extra-long twin, queen, king and split king—and the company also sells memory foam mattresses designed to fit with the adjustable base seamlessly. Sven & Son offers free shipping, a sleep trial of 120 nights and installation services to make purchasing an adjustable bed easy and convenient. Sven & Son’s Bliss Series offers an enhanced experience from its Classic series by adding additional movement features and massage controls. The Bliss Series features a more durable steel construction and comes with a free Bluetooth-powered app that allows you to set your bed to your preferred settings with ease. Similar to the Classic Series, the Bliss Series includes up to 75 degrees of head tilt and 45 degrees of leg tilt, but it adds an extra 7 degrees of pillow tilt (further tilt above the head itself) and adjustable lumbar support. Stuffed with special features, the Platinum Series Adjustable Bed Base includes everything the Bliss and the Classic offer, such as Bluetooth control via app, dual massage functionality, USB ports, under-bed lighting, adjustable lumbar support and head, foot and pillow articulation. It also supports up to an impressive 1,800 pounds. The Platinum sets itself apart with its “headboard hugging” feature, which keeps the bed level with your nightstand by adjusting the base in tandem with your desired tilt and articulation settings. Puffy’s adjustable bed base is designed for four standard mattress sizes and made with simple assembly in mind. The bed comes with a lifetime warranty and features dual massage zones, LED under-bed lighting and a universal headboard attachment. Puffy also pledges to deliver your mattress for free within two to five business days, so you won’t have to wait long to test out your purchase. Saatva offers its deluxe adjustable bed base in eight sizes, which means there’s a suitable option for a variety of customers. With a wireless remote control, users can elevate their head and feet, switch to a “zero gravity” mode and activate an anti-snore setting. Saatva also offers free shipping for this bed base. Nearly 2,000 reviews attest that Nectar’s adjustable bed frame offers many of the same top-of-the-line features as its competitors at an affordable price. The bed base includes head and foot articulation, three-zone massage features with preset positions and modes, and USB ports. This device can be controlled via an app or remote, and it includes “zero gravity” and anti-snore settings to promote high-quality shut-eye. The Reverie R550 Adjustable Power Base is well designed and comes with some alluring extras. Most notably, the R550 includes cutting-edge individual lumbar functionality with 100 discrete points of lumbar support so you can fine-tune your bed position for spine comfort. The adjustable bed also has “pro-grip” technology to keep the mattress in place without the need for side rails, as well as a 3D wave massage mode with four styles of massage and 10 intensity levels. Reverie’s Nightstand app allows you to fine-tune your bed settings and set smart alarms and timers from your preferred iOS or Android device. Tempur-Pedic’s luxurious Ergo Smart Base adjustable bed is the most expensive adjustable bed featured on our list. Equipped with impressive features, including sleep tracking sensors and an automatic snore response, the Ergo Smart Base shows the full potential of an adjustable bed base. Tempur-Pedic’s “Sleeptracker AI” tracks your sleep without you having to wear any monitors or wires and provides personalized, customized sleep tips, settings and insights all through its easy-to-use app. With mattress bundling, white-glove installation and a 25-year warranty, Tempur-Pedic seeks to make itself a one-stop shop. Lucid’s L300 adjustable bed base makes assembly a breeze—simply screw in the legs and plug it into the wall. Not to mention, it’s certainly a value buy with one of the lowest prices on our list. The L300 boasts many features seen in more expensive models, such as head and foot articulation, USB charging ports and even anti-snore and “zero gravity” settings. Lucid provides free shipping, too. To determine the best adjustable beds for older adults, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on nearly 70 products from the top brands, evaluating them based on: Most adjustable beds use electrical motor controls on the bed base to raise and lower the head and/or the foot of the mattress resting on top of it. These changes in elevation can make all the difference in a senior’s ability to sleep comfortably. For instance, if you have sleep apnea or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), raising the head of your bed can provide quick and consistent relief. Meanwhile, if edema, varicose veins or sciatica cause you trouble, lifting your legs above the level of your heart can improve circulation and prevent nerve damage. While most adjustable beds raise the foot and/or the head of the bed, another type of adjustable bed mimics the experience of sleeping on a sofa (in a good way). These beds raise the mattress in front and/or behind a person, catering specifically to side sleepers. These beds provide support for the sleeper’s back, arms and hands. Adjustable beds are often (but not always) more expensive than traditional beds. Prices can range from about $300 to $10,000 or more, depending on the brand, number of features, size of the bed and the service used to deliver the bed to your home. Most manufacturers won’t let you return an adjustable bed base, so you need to do as much homework as you can before you buy one. Of course, the number and sophistication of additional features influence the cost of an adjustable bed. For instance, some beds include LED lights underneath to guide you on nighttime trips to the bathroom while others offer charging ports for cell phones and other devices. Meanwhile, others include massage and alarm capabilities. If you sleep with a partner, maybe the most important thing to consider is whether you both want to sleep in the same position. If not, a split mattress is a way to go, as it will enable both of you to choose your own degrees of elevation. It’s also important to choose a mattress that works with an adjustable base. Some (but not all) innerspring mattresses are able to bend and fold. Foam mattresses—latex, memory foam or a combination of the two—tend to be more flexible. Finally, a mattress that traps body heat can be a pro or a con, depending on how you like to sleep. Some people find memory foam mattresses make them uncomfortably warm. Others like more warmth, so memory foam isn’t a problem. In general, sleep experts say a cool environment is better than a warm one when it comes to ensuring a good night’s sleep. If you’re a hot sleeper, you may find natural latex to be more comfortable. Adjustable beds bases are available in standard sizes with one exception: Most manufacturers substitute an extra-large twin mattress base for a standard twin. Full-size bed bases can also be more difficult to come by than queen, king and California king mattress bases. The mechanical parts that control an adjustable bed can be heavy, which may be an important consideration if you plan to pick up the bed yourself instead of having it delivered (or if your bedroom is upstairs and the delivery service can only bring the bed to your front door). Some retailers offer “white glove” delivery and assembly services for an extra charge. If you’re handy, you can put together an adjustable bed in an afternoon, but keep in mind that some tools may be required and the work itself can be tiring. While most manufacturers won’t let you return an adjustable bed, the warranties they offer can be reassuring. Many provide up to three years of coverage on mechanical parts, with the rest of the base under warranty for 10 to 20 years. A few companies even offer a limited lifetime warranty. Adjustable bed features are designed to provide additional comfort, convenience, safety or a combination of the three. Common features include: Adjustable beds may be classified as “durable medical equipment” (DME) and therefore covered by Medicare. According to Dr. Winter, some conditions that warrant Medicare coverage of adjustable beds include: You can buy an adjustable bed online or at one of many brick-and-mortar stores. It’s best to try these beds in person before you buy one. Research to date focuses on the effects of elevating the upper or lower body (as opposed to the use of an adjustable bed specifically). Nocturia, or the urge to urinate during the night, is a problem for many elderly people. In one
study of people with peripheral edema (swelling in the lower legs or hands), elevating participants’ legs in the afternoon and evening reduced the number of nighttime trips to the bathroom and increased the amount of undisturbed sleep time. Several studies also suggest that elevating the upper body can significantly improve symptoms of health conditions like GERD and sleep apnea. Dr. Winter’s experience with adjustable beds as a means of providing head elevation parallels this research. He notes that an adjustable bed can improve sleep quality specifically, “particularly if the bed is positioning the person in a way that’s more favorable to breathing or pain alleviation.” 
                Designed For Maximum Comfort
             Vive Health’s Electric Bed Frame is easy to adjust and features a zero-gravity position to increase circulation and relieve pain. On Vive Health's Website Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Susanna Guzman is a professional writer with 30 years of experience in medical publishing, digital strategy, nonprofit leadership and health information technology. She has written for www.familydoctor.org, Mayo Clinic and March of Dimes, and she’s a published author on clinical and family practice management topics. Guzman is committed to creating content that honors the covenant between patients and their providers.
			 
				Robby has spent his career in a variety of writing, editing and storytelling roles. He now resides near Birmingham, Alabama, with his wife and three kids. He enjoys woodworking, playing rec league soccer and supporting chaotic, downtrodden sports franchises like the Miami Dolphins and Tottenham Hotspur.
			 
				Alena is a professional writer, editor and manager with a lifelong passion for helping others live well. She is also a registered yoga teacher (RYT-200) and a functional medicine certified health coach. She brings more than a decade of media experience to Forbes Health, with a keen focus on building content strategy, ensuring top content quality and empowering readers to make the best health and wellness decisions for themselves.
			