Scientific research proves that tanning beds are dangerous  If you've ever thought about going to an indoor tanning booth you may be wondering: Are tanning beds safe? The short answer is no.
  Artificial ultraviolet radiation (UV rays) emitted from tanning beds and sun lamps causes cancer, according to both the World Health Organization's International Agency of Research on Cancer and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
  The sun's rays are carcinogenic too, but the UVA rays emitted from the ultraviolet A light sources in tanning booths are two to three times more powerful. Indoor tanning includes all artificial light sources emitting UVA and UVB radiation ⁠— wavelengths in ultraviolet radiation. 
  Solar radiation from tanning booths and the sun damages your skin. The obvious and familiar signs are:
  Tanning-booth safety is well-researched. The risks of indoor tanning are numerous, significant, and well-substantiated by clinical research in peer-reviewed journals.
  If you think it's safe to just use a tanning booth before the prom or your wedding and that it won't do any damage, you're wrong. Going to just one session at the tanning salon before age 35 increases your risk of melanoma even if you don't get a sunburn. That risk continues to increase with every session. 
  You also increase the risk of:
  When you go to the salon for a tanning session, you might leave with a golden glow, but you're subjecting yourself to something that unequivocally causes cancer. Clinical studies show tanning with artificial light causes melanoma, the most dangerous kind of cancer. A melanoma resembles a mole and is usually black or brown in color, but sometimes red, blue or other colors.
  Skin cancer can happen to anyone. Women are at greater risk of developing cancer from exposure to UV rays used in indoor tanning booths than men, simply because about 70 percent of tanning salon patrons are young women. If you've previously been treated for skin cancer or have a family history of skin cancer your risk also increases.
  You have a greater risk of developing skin cancer if you exhibit certain physical characteristics, including:
  Your risk is also greater if your skin tends to:
  Your lifestyle can also increase your risk of skin cancer, including:
  Medication, supplements, and some cosmetics increase your sensitivity to the sun, too. 
  As with many cancers, early detection and treatment are your best chance of remission and survival. Here are some signs that may indicate you have skin cancer:
  Regular skin self-exams could save an estimated 4,500 lives annually. Anytime you are concerned about a growth or spot on your skin, it is best to seek the advice of a healthcare professional.
 No. Even one session in a tanning bed can increase your risk of developing skin cancer. Tanning beds are not ever safe, but if you're pregnant, there's more to consider than just an increased risk of skin cancer. Vitamin D and folic acid are two nutrients that are critical to fetal development, but excessive UV light can impact your body's ability to produce and use them. This can impact how your baby grows in the womb. While there isn't any research to show that the concentrated UV light from a tanning bed could impact breastmilk, it could impact your ability to breastfeed in other ways. In addition to an increased risk of developing skin cancer, breastfeeding mothers who tan also run the risk of sunburned breasts or nipples, which can make it hard to breastfeed. Self-tanning lotions are the only way to achieve a sun-kissed glow without the risks of damaging your skin. If you choose to use a self-tanner, it's important to know that this type of tan does not give you sun protection. Be sure to wear sunscreen when you're in the sun; a self-tanner won't give you any protection. American Academy of Dermatology Association. 10 Surprising facts about indoor tanning. Borradale DC, Kimlin MG. Folate degradation due to ultraviolet radiation: possible implications for human health and nutrition. Nutrition Reviews. 2012;70(7):414-422. doi:10.1111/j.1753-4887.2012.00485.x La Leche League. Tanning beds and fake tans. American Academy of Dermatology: Indoor Tanning. Artificial Tanning Booths and Cancer. Cancer.gov. Cancer.org. Tanning Beds Pose Serious Cancer Risk, Agency Says. 
By Tracee Cornforth

Tracee Cornforth is a freelance writer who covers menstruation, menstrual disorders, and other women's health issues. 
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.