UK Edition Thousands of NHS patients stuck in hospitals will be moved urgently into care homes under government plans to ease pressure on A&E wards. Steve Barclay, the health secretary, will unveil an emergency winter pressure package this week that will include a hospital discharge fund. This will be used to block-buy thousands of care home beds in Care Quality Commission approved facilities. While the final package was still being negotiated in Downing Street last night, senior government sources said it would involve spending hundreds of millions of pounds on top of £500 million in social care funding announced in the autumn statement. Ministers hope that fund, which went to the NHS and local councils to increase the number of social care beds, will begin to have an effect within the next four weeks and could free up between 1,000 and 2,000 hospital beds. Currently 13,000 patients are stuck on wards who do not need to be in hospital. It came as: • The doctors’ union warned that consultants could join junior doctors in strike action. • The chairman of the public inquiry into the scandal at the Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust warned the same failings are being replicated nationally. • Sunday Times analysis showed the UK’s excess death rate is far higher than many other European countries. Monday’s announcement will see more money given to local NHS areas to buy up the beds for those patients who need temporary step-down care before returning to their own home. Officials believe there are enough spare beds and the money could be spent over the next four weeks to try to ease pressure on hospitals struggling to cope with emergency demand. Local GPs and community services will be provided to the patients in the care homes to help them return home as soon as possible. There will also be extra money to improve and expand existing discharge lounges in hospitals — areas where patients are sent when they no longer need a bed but are waiting for transport or prescriptions. Speaking at the Downing Street summit, the prime minister said: “During the pandemic we had to bring boldness and radicalism to how we did things in order to get through. We need that same bold and radical approach now because a business-as-usual mindset won’t fix the challenges we face. “What fills me with enormous confidence is hearing about so many examples across the country in different bits of the health service where things are going well, where people are overcoming the challenges that they face and making a difference. “They are getting people back into their homes and into their communities at a quick and appropriate pace, they are managing to get waiting lists down, they are managing to keep people out of hospital in the first place by thinking differently.” However, in what would be a significant blow to any progress, Professor Phil Banfield, the chairman of the British Medical Association, said in an interview with The Sunday Times that consultants’ leaders would meet within weeks to discuss a possible ballot for industrial action after years of real-terms cuts in pay and raids on their pensions. Consultants’ starting salaries are £88,364 a year and after five years these can rise to more than £100,000 with the best-paid earning at least £120,000. They can drastically increase their pay through private work, which a third take on. The medical trade union had already warned that junior doctors, who this week begin voting on whether to strike, will, if the vote is carried, walk out for 72 hours in March. This will also include not providing emergency care. Banfield, 61, a consultant obstetrician, said: “Consultants are discussing industrial action. They are angry. They’re angry about their drop in pay, they’re unbelievably frustrated about the pension situation that is forcing them either to retire or not to take on more work.” Sir Robert Francis KC, who chaired the public inquiry into the scandal at the Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust, called on the government to declare a national incident and to take action “to prevent the NHS ever again experiencing this sort of crisis.” Hundreds of patients were abused and neglected at Stafford Hospital between 2005 and 2009, with many elderly patients left lying in their own faeces, unable to eat or drink and suffering falls or going without essential medication. Writing to Barclay this weekend, Francis and the Patients Association’s chief executive, Rachel Power, said the current situation in the NHS was a “disaster” and a serious threat to safety. They added: “It is clear lives are being lost as a result. What we are witnessing across the NHS is the Mid Staffs scandal playing out on a national level, if not worse.” Today, Sunak raised a “chink of optimism” that future strikes in the health service could be averted after saying he is willing to discuss pay at tomorrow’s meeting with unions, a leading trade unionist has said. The prime minister said the government was willing to talk about pay that is “reasonable, affordable and responsible for the country”. He indicated that tomorrow’s talks with union leaders would not reopen negotiations over the current financial year’s pay but would instead focus on a more generous pay settlement for the 2023-24 financial year. He told BBC’s Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme: “We are about to start a new pay settlement round for this year, we’re about to start that independent process, and before that process starts the government is keen to sit down with the unions and talk about pay and make sure they understand where we’re coming from.” However, he did not rule out talking about 2022-23 when repeatedly pressed and Pat Cullen, general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing, said she had noticed a “little shift” in the prime minister’s position. Last week she said she was willing to “meet the government halfway” over pay and would consider a settlement of about 10 per cent if ministers agreed to talks. She made clear, however, that any deal would not avert strike action planned by nurses for next week. Speaking on the same show, Cullen urged Sunak to “grasp the nettle [and] come to the table” as she indicated cautious hopes for resolving the long-running dispute. She said: “The prime minister talked about coming to the table, now that’s a move for me because I have said, let’s meet halfway. “I can’t negotiate on my own, and I can’t negotiate on the airwaves. “So if that table is now available, I will be there on behalf of the over 300,000 members that participated in this ballot. “But it must it must be about addressing pay for 2022-23.” In his interview with Kuenssberg, Sunak refused to describe the NHS as being in crisis but accepted that the health service was “undeniably under enormous pressure”. However, after chairing a meeting with NHS leaders in Downing Street yesterday, he said he was “confident” that measures taken to discharge patients quicker by buying spare capacity in care homes and treating people in their own homes by making more use of so-called “virtual wards” would help slash waiting times within months. The prime minister said: “I’m confident that in a few months’ time we will have practically eliminated those people who are waiting a year-and-a-half for their treatment because we’re working to the plan that we’ve put in place and by next spring, I’m confident that we will practically eliminate all those people waiting over a year on waiting lists will actually be falling.” The talks come as ambulance workers prepare to stage a second walkout on January 11, while nurses are due to walk out on January 18 and 19. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.