
By Heather Fishel
 Updated on Oct 4, 2023 12:22 PM EDT 9 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn more › Your truck’s bed is likely one of the top reasons you bought the dang thing. The expansive bed—even if it’s on the shorter size—allows you to haul just about anything and everything. But there’s one pretty significant problem with a truck’s bed. Whatever’s inside the bed is exposed to the world.  Whether you’re carrying a few tools or more important items, your truck bed is vulnerable to problems like theft, unpredictable weather, and even the wear and tear that comes from driving along roads with no cover or protection. Fortunately, there’s an easy solution: a tonneau cover. But which do you get in a sea of options? Well, let’s find the right one for your application.  We can’t put our own hands on every item available, but we did test out two of the best around: Gator’s roll up and Retrax’s retractable. We put them through absolute hell, including throwing dirt into the bed, jumping on top of the Retrax, and generally putting them through their paces. They get our seal of approval. In those other instances, we put our collective experience in journalism, research, and prior product testing to use to make our product picks. Items that are used by our own staff may get earnest endorsements as well, but we’ll never accept fees or bonuses to sell you stuff we’re not actually excited about. Affiliate revenue is always disclosed.  The Drive aggregates reviews and research from all over the internet to figure out which products are worth buying. We also put out shopping guides to help you understand how to assess the value of these things on your own.  The Lund Genesis Elite is hard to beat when it comes to bed covers. Granted, it is a soft cover, which might not match everyone’s criteria, but the lower price and convenience of these covers are what we feel most people are after. That said, the Genesis gets a lot right. It’s made from high-quality twill weave, it’s easy to set up, will not interfere with stake pockets. While twill isn’t exactly commonplace, it does an excellent job of repelling water while creating a unique aesthetic. As for the drawbacks, this does run for a higher price than most soft rolling covers. It’s also worth noting that to get a proper seal, the velcro strips need to be just right, which can be viewed as an inconvenience. The Tyger Auto T3 tri-fold just might be what you need if a roll-up cover doesn’t fit the bill. Unlike a roll-up, this cover has three panels, two of which fold up and out of the way, allowing a single person to use it with ease. Speaking of ease, it’s simple to install and takes little more than a few minutes to plant on your truck. Toss a relatively low price point and limited lifetime warranty into the mix, and you can see why it’s wearing the crown of Best Value. What’s not to like is the fact that only two of the three panels fold up out of the way. That means at least one-third of your bed will be blocked whenever this is in place. It also blocks stake pocket holes, which can impede the use of some accessories. If you frequently carry valuable or large cargo, the Retraxone XR tonneau cover has your name on it. This hard retractable tonneau cover offers full access to the bed when rolled back but maximum security when deployed. When paired with a locking tailgate, accessing the bed can be near impossible for the average thief. Despite being an evolved variant of covers, installation is also very straightforward, and it is backed by a lifetime warranty to provide ultimate peace of mind. Security doesn’t come cheap, unfortunately, and this is one of the most expensive covers on the market. It also does partially block the stake pocket holes, which can present some issues and even render it an impractical choice for some truck owners. The Gator roll-up takes the pick for most user-friendly due to the simple installation process. There’s no drilling required, nor do you need much to get the job done. Ease of installation does not mean sacrifices in aesthetics or practicality, though. The cover does rank among some of the best in terms of appearances, and it also leaves the stake pockets wide open for use. The relatively low price point isn’t hurting anything either.  Managing editor Jonathon Klein put this one to the test with his Honda Ridgeline and found it fit his lifestyle perfectly, allowing for motorcycles and storage of gear without issue. You can read up more on his thoughts above, but he suggests that this is a great tonneau cover for anyone who needs bed access with none of the detriment of losing space with a retractable.  There’s a whole lot to like about the BAK MX4 hard folding cover. For one, this folding aluminum cover has the ability to support up to 400 pounds of distributed weight. There’s no way snow or other build-up is causing it to collapse, and the rugged construction does add a bit of security to your belongings. It also looks great, installs with ease, leaves the stake pockets unimpeded, and it’s backed with a lifetime warranty. Simply put, this is the hard folding cover to consider. That is unless you’re unwilling to spend a considerable amount of money on a tonneau cover. There’s no question that this is priced out of range for many truck owners. Even so, the quality control division still seems to have some kinks to work through, as there are several reports of factory defects from customers. The Switchblade is the model most are going to reach for when opting for a hard retracting tonneau cover. Why? Because it’s one of the most affordable options in this segment. That said, it’s made with durable aluminum plates that are coated in a black finish to create the look your truck deserves. Don’t worry. Everything about this cover is highly durable, so you don’t need to freak out over scratches and dings. Of course, it’s also very easy to use, and pairing it with a locking tailgate offers maximum security. While this may be an affordable hard cover, it’s not budget-friendly by any means. Also, installation is much more complicated than traditional covers, which is worth knowing before buying.  Some folks prefer a tonneau cover that pronounces itself, and the TruXport is hard to beat in that territory. It’s designed to sit 1.5 inches above the bed, creating a distinctive look that many crave. It also utilizes signature leather-grain fabric to promote that iconic aesthetic of exterior decor. Of course, this is a roll-up cover, so it sits at a relatively affordable price point. TruXedo also backs it with a 5-year warranty, and it does a decent job of keeping the weather out. It’s not ideal in most situations, unfortunately. The design inherently covers the stake pocket holes, which ultimately makes it an impractical choice for many. There’s also the issue of its tendency to pool water on the cover, which hints at issues with snow and ice. Our top pick for the best tonneau cover is the Lund 96893 Genesis Elite Roll Up Truck Bed Tonneau Cover. With a roll-up design, it’s hard to beat the convenience this cover offers. For something slightly more affordable, check out the Tyger Auto T3 Tri-Fold Truck Bed Tonneau Cover. It offers a convenient tri-fold design that does a decent job of protecting the truck bed. Here’s everything you need to know before hitting Buy It Now.  Offering a lot in terms of flexibility and weather protection, soft tonneau covers also have the advantage of being budget-friendly in most cases. Made of tough fabrics like vinyl, most of these covers roll or fold. Weather-wise, soft fabrics are more effective at covering the little cracks and spaces water and debris can get into around the truck bed. On the opposite end, however, soft covers don’t offer much security against thieves or tampering. When it comes to the ultimate amount of protection a cover can offer, hard tonneau options are hard to beat. Using composites or metal panels, these covers create a rigid barrier between the truck bed and outside world. Many covers also roll or fold up like softcovers, but some models are a single piece that lifts up on one end. Unfortunately, the extra security comes with a higher price tag, more weight, and more challenging installation in most cases.  Both soft and hard tonneau covers are also available in another style: folding covers. Soft covers typically roll up, allowing you to secure them in place with straps or buckles when you don’t need the cover’s protection or overhead coverage. Hard folding covers tend to have panels that you can fold back and secure, via lock or latch mechanisms. Both kinds of folding covers give you the freedom to partially or completely open the cover for as much access as you need.  Retractable covers are different from folding covers. Typically made out of thin, flexible, and soft materials, retractable tonneau covers feature an automated (or electric) mechanism that pulls the cover open and rolls it out of your way as needed. These covers are incredibly convenient, as they make getting your cover off your truck’s bed simple and quick, and they allow you to have versatility in how much or how little of the cover you’d like to use. You’ve got questions. The Drive has answers. A. Hard covers offer a good amount of protection if they come with some kind of lock. No cover, however, is completely theft-proof. A. Most covers use clamps that latch onto the side of the bed rails. Some clamps are attached to the cover, while others are separate. A. In most cases, no. Some hardcovers are designed to carry a good amount of weight on top, but most can’t support heavy items without compromising the structural integrity. A. This depends on your preferences and needs. For some truck owners, a soft cover is the best choice, especially if you want an easy-to-remove cover that doesn’t need permanent installation on your vehicle. However, a hard cover offers more durability and increased security, which makes a hard tonneau a better choice for others. A. Many tonneau covers are able to block out water — but you’ll want to make sure you search for covers that are waterproof, not water-resistant, in order to keep your truck bed dry. Hard covers tend to offer the best waterproofing, as these covers are custom-fitted and completely close up your pickup’s bed off from the outdoor elements. Heather Fishel is a writer well-versed in subject matter that’s both informative and intriguing. In her career, she’s authored articles on topics encompassing food and recipes, productivity, life hacks, history, psychology, helpful mind hacks, education, and efficiency. A contributing writer for a number of publications, Heather has written for WonderHowTo, Campus Explorer, War History Online, College Niche, Electronic Retailing Magazine, and Clean Eating Magazine. The chronicle of car culture, delivered to your inbox. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. © 2024 Recurrent Ventures. All Rights Reserved. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Some benefits of our Car Shopping program may not be available in your area. Please see terms for details. 