eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Karie Angell Luc / Pioneer Press Center, Cathy Schiltz of Glenview, owner of the Glenview Grind, confers with employees at the register of the Glenview Grind (1837 Glenview Road) in Glenview on March 28, 2023. Karie Angell Luc / Pioneer Press Glenview House at 1843 Glenview Road was still in business on March 25, 2023 in downtown Glenview. Karie Angell Luc / Pioneer Press Glenview House at 1843 Glenview Road was still in business on March 25, 2023 in downtown Glenview. Karie Angell Luc / Pioneer Press Scott Thomson of Arlington Heights, manager of Grandpa's Place (1868 Prairie St.) in Glenview, tends to business at the restaurant on March 28, 2023. Karie Angell Luc / Pioneer Press Making a point is Andrew Karas of Glenview, owner of Gusto Italiano Ristorante in Glenview (1834 Glenview Road) on March 28, 2023. Center, Cathy Schiltz of Glenview, owner of the Glenview Grind, confers with employees at the register of the Glenview Grind (1837 Glenview Road) in Glenview on March 28, 2023. The economic bookends of the downtown Glenview Road restaurant district are shifting.As a new Ballyhoo Hospitality restaurant is planned at 1739 Glenview Road just west of Waukegan Road, news that Glenview House closed permanently on March 27 has people wondering about the opposite end of Glenview Road near the railroad tracks.The owner of historic Glenview House and of the same building at 1843 Glenview Road has not returned emails.Late last month, Nick Philippas of Glenview, comanaging partner of Glenview-based North Branch restaurant, tried to buy Glenview House.“The rumor was kind of true,” Philippas told Pioneer Press.Philippas wanted, “to redo it,” with history-inspired renovations, keeping it Glenview House, but both parties couldn’t agree on a purchase price.The Village of Glenview was told Glenview House was closing and that the building is not changing ownership. The current owner plans on remodeling.“Thank you Glenview for a great 12 years!” states the Glenview House website.


Glenview House at 1843 Glenview Road was still in business on March 25, 2023 in downtown Glenview.Meghan Kearney, Glenview Chamber of Commerce executive director, spoke with the Glenview House owner who plans to reopen the restaurant in early 2024.“I’m intrigued to see what develops,” Kearney said. “It’s a great space for a new spot if it became for sale.”Meanwhile, restaurants near Glenview House who bested the COVID-19 pandemic will have to keep defending their economic end of Glenview Road while Glenview House revisits itself.At the March 7 Glenview Board of Trustees meeting when the Ballyhoo Hospitality deal was unanimously approved, Trustee Tim Doron said, “People are starved for this in this town.“And kudos to those restaurants that are down there now, and Gusto, and Grandpa’s, and Glenview House and Forza (Meats), hanging on, and like, defending the hill … waiting for reinforcements,” Doron said. “This is a reinforcement.“Public investment is needed to leverage private investment,” Doron said, quoting a document justifying spark site redevelopment.Then came Glenview House’s sudden social media splash announcing permanent closure, confusing some who thought it was final.Grandpa’s Place (1868 Prairie St.), Gusto Italiano Ristorante (1834 Glenview Road) and Glenview Grind (1837 Glenview Road) are Glenview House neighbors.To develop 1739 Glenview Road, in February 2022, the village purchased land (Scot Cleaners) for $295,000. Earlier this year, the village bought more land behind Oil Lamp Theater for $175,000. Both purchases were cobbled together for a restaurant site, wooing Ballyhoo.Ballyhoo will purchase the village-owned approximately 6,000 square foot property for $10 requiring $10,000 in earnest money.On March 7, Ballyhoo received a village grant of $1.75 million and must pay back a $2.25 million village restaurant loan at 2 % over 15 years. If Ballyhoo defaults, the property returns to the village.Under the 15 year repayment with interest, after property, home rule and state sales taxes, the village projects being ahead by $400,000 plus.Scott Thomson of Arlington Heights, Grandpa’s Place manager, said, “I’m not surprised,” that Ballyhoo received what it did.
Scott Thomson of Arlington Heights, manager of Grandpa’s Place (1868 Prairie St.) in Glenview, tends to business at the restaurant on March 28, 2023.“All of them give, every community gives,” Thomson said, ” … deals to get people in there.”Andrew Karas of Glenview, Gusto Italiano Ristorante owner said, “I think it’s (Ballyhoo) great for the downtown,” but, “No, I’m not,” Karas added, when asked if he is happy about Ballyhoo’s incentive package.“When I first heard of it, I was like, in shock, I couldn’t believe it.”Karas wished the village had given him a chance at a grant, land ownership, plus a low interest loan that critics argue is way below market rate.“I think I deserve that after 23 years in this town,” Karas said.Years ago, when Karas opened for business, “I didn’t get anything from the village, but they’re bending over backwards for them (Ballyhoo), and they bent over backwards for The Glen (Town Center),” Karas said. “They left us out to dry.
Making a point is Andrew Karas of Glenview, owner of Gusto Italiano Ristorante in Glenview (1834 Glenview Road) on March 28, 2023.“We’ve been on our own,” Karas said, with minimal, “help from the village, but I guess there are a lot more bigger pockets.“I think that’s the difference,” Karas said, adding the Ballyhoo incentives were, “very generous, I can’t believe how generous.”The founder of Ballyhoo Hospitality who resides in Wilmette, is, “new to this town,” Karas said.“They haven’t been here before, they just arrived and all the sudden, the doors are wide-open. Why is that?”“I’m just hurt,” Karas said.About four years ago, Cathy Schiltz, a Glenview resident since 2001 and Glenview Grind owner, co-launched Friends of Downtown Glenview, now a 501c3 organization.
Center, Cathy Schiltz of Glenview, owner of the Glenview Grind, confers with employees at the register of the Glenview Grind (1837 Glenview Road) in Glenview on March 28, 2023.While, “I am happy,” about Ballyhoo, Schiltz, as a business tenant, was not offered an opportunity for land ownership to replace renting.“Or even any kind of grant money would have also helped me to do things that I would like to do,” Schiltz said, “but, you know, that wasn’t the case, right?“I was not asked by the village.”Schiltz said the Glenview Grind received PPP (Paycheck Protection Program) money but did not receive COVID-19 relief from a January 2021 village restaurant financial assistance program. Other Glenview restaurants did, Schiltz said.During the pandemic, Glenview Grind, “stayed open,” Schiltz said.Meghan Kearney pointed out, “Business owners can benefit from various incentives such as facade and tenant improvement grants that were approved in 2022.“The village plans to establish new incentive programs from ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) funds for eligible businesses that missed out on PPP or other funding from hardships due to COVID,” Kearney said.With a drive-through, Glenview Grind expanded its menu and has a beer and wine license.Toasting aside, Schiltz welcomes Ballyhoo to Glenview Road.“It’s what the residents want,” Schiltz said. “I want to keep a great relationship with the village.“That’s very important to me,” Schiltz added, “and a good relationship with all my neighbors here on Glenview Road.“I do love this community.”Karie Angell Luc is a freelancer for Pioneer Press. As a new Ballyhoo Hospitality restaurant is planned at 1739 Glenview Road just west of Waukegan Road, news that Glenview House closed permanently on March 27 has people wondering about the opposite end of Glenview Road near the railroad tracks. The owner of historic Glenview House and of the same building at 1843 Glenview Road has not returned emails. Late last month, Nick Philippas of Glenview, comanaging partner of Glenview-based North Branch restaurant, tried to buy Glenview House. “The rumor was kind of true,” Philippas told Pioneer Press. Philippas wanted, “to redo it,” with history-inspired renovations, keeping it Glenview House, but both parties couldn’t agree on a purchase price. The Village of Glenview was told Glenview House was closing and that the building is not changing ownership. The current owner plans on remodeling. “Thank you Glenview for a great 12 years!” states the Glenview House website. Meghan Kearney, Glenview Chamber of Commerce executive director, spoke with the Glenview House owner who plans to reopen the restaurant in early 2024. “I’m intrigued to see what develops,” Kearney said. “It’s a great space for a new spot if it became for sale.” Meanwhile, restaurants near Glenview House who bested the COVID-19 pandemic will have to keep defending their economic end of Glenview Road while Glenview House revisits itself. At the March 7 Glenview Board of Trustees meeting when the Ballyhoo Hospitality deal was unanimously approved, Trustee Tim Doron said, “People are starved for this in this town. “And kudos to those restaurants that are down there now, and Gusto, and Grandpa’s, and Glenview House and Forza (Meats), hanging on, and like, defending the hill … waiting for reinforcements,” Doron said. “This is a reinforcement. “Public investment is needed to leverage private investment,” Doron said, quoting a document justifying spark site redevelopment. Then came Glenview House’s sudden social media splash announcing permanent closure, confusing some who thought it was final. Grandpa’s Place (1868 Prairie St.), Gusto Italiano Ristorante (1834 Glenview Road) and Glenview Grind (1837 Glenview Road) are Glenview House neighbors. To develop 1739 Glenview Road, in February 2022, the village purchased land (Scot Cleaners) for $295,000. Earlier this year, the village bought more land behind Oil Lamp Theater for $175,000. Both purchases were cobbled together for a restaurant site, wooing Ballyhoo. Ballyhoo will purchase the village-owned approximately 6,000 square foot property for $10 requiring $10,000 in earnest money. On March 7, Ballyhoo received a village grant of $1.75 million and must pay back a $2.25 million village restaurant loan at 2 % over 15 years. If Ballyhoo defaults, the property returns to the village. Under the 15 year repayment with interest, after property, home rule and state sales taxes, the village projects being ahead by $400,000 plus. Scott Thomson of Arlington Heights, Grandpa’s Place manager, said, “I’m not surprised,” that Ballyhoo received what it did. “All of them give, every community gives,” Thomson said, ” … deals to get people in there.” Andrew Karas of Glenview, Gusto Italiano Ristorante owner said, “I think it’s (Ballyhoo) great for the downtown,” but, “No, I’m not,” Karas added, when asked if he is happy about Ballyhoo’s incentive package. “When I first heard of it, I was like, in shock, I couldn’t believe it.” Karas wished the village had given him a chance at a grant, land ownership, plus a low interest loan that critics argue is way below market rate. “I think I deserve that after 23 years in this town,” Karas said. Years ago, when Karas opened for business, “I didn’t get anything from the village, but they’re bending over backwards for them (Ballyhoo), and they bent over backwards for The Glen (Town Center),” Karas said. “They left us out to dry. “We’ve been on our own,” Karas said, with minimal, “help from the village, but I guess there are a lot more bigger pockets. “I think that’s the difference,” Karas said, adding the Ballyhoo incentives were, “very generous, I can’t believe how generous.” The founder of Ballyhoo Hospitality who resides in Wilmette, is, “new to this town,” Karas said. “They haven’t been here before, they just arrived and all the sudden, the doors are wide-open. Why is that?” “I’m just hurt,” Karas said. About four years ago, Cathy Schiltz, a Glenview resident since 2001 and Glenview Grind owner, co-launched Friends of Downtown Glenview, now a 501c3 organization. While, “I am happy,” about Ballyhoo, Schiltz, as a business tenant, was not offered an opportunity for land ownership to replace renting. “Or even any kind of grant money would have also helped me to do things that I would like to do,” Schiltz said, “but, you know, that wasn’t the case, right? “I was not asked by the village.” Schiltz said the Glenview Grind received PPP (Paycheck Protection Program) money but did not receive COVID-19 relief from a January 2021 village restaurant financial assistance program. Other Glenview restaurants did, Schiltz said. During the pandemic, Glenview Grind, “stayed open,” Schiltz said. Meghan Kearney pointed out, “Business owners can benefit from various incentives such as facade and tenant improvement grants that were approved in 2022. “The village plans to establish new incentive programs from ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) funds for eligible businesses that missed out on PPP or other funding from hardships due to COVID,” Kearney said. With a drive-through, Glenview Grind expanded its menu and has a beer and wine license. Toasting aside, Schiltz welcomes Ballyhoo to Glenview Road. “It’s what the residents want,” Schiltz said. “I want to keep a great relationship with the village. “That’s very important to me,” Schiltz added, “and a good relationship with all my neighbors here on Glenview Road. “I do love this community.” Karie Angell Luc is a freelancer for Pioneer Press. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune