

				LISTEN: Zoe Konez’s “Yeah I Know” Evokes Ethereal Folk Via Minimalistic Acoustics			
 

				Manic Monday: Max Cavalera and Short-Lived Nailbomb Throwdown at Dynamo 1995			
 

				Author Ross Warner Announces New Book ‘American Standard: Cheap Trick from the Bars to the Budokan and Beyond’			
 

				Deep Friday Blues: T-Bone Walker Gives It Up For Jazz at the Philharmonic (Live in UK 1966)			
 

				Americana Legend Dave Alvin Shares Wondrous Stories, Favorite Books & New Album With Jimmie Dale Gilmour ‘ Texicali’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				Pacific Northwest Rocker Casey Neill Finds Interconnections Between ‘time zero land’ and ‘Sending Up Flares’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				Smoker Dad Brings Updated Rock and Roll Swagger and Rootsy Twang To New LP ‘Hotdog Highway’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				Mike Frazier Talks Musical Perseverance Following Brain Surgery On New Album Release Date (FEATURE)			
 

				Devon Allman Tries On Neon Colored Grooves With Soulful ‘Miami Moon’ (ALBUM REVIEW)			
 

				Foo Fighters Prove Rock & Roll is Still King of the Stadium At Portland’s Providence Park (SHOW REVIEW)			
 

				Music World Gives Payback To An Overlooked Legend On ‘Lee Fields: Faithful Man’ (FILM REVIEW)			
 

				1982’s ‘Around The World’ Covers The Police On Their First World Tour (DVD REVIEW)			
 

				Kathleen Hanna Shares Deep and Introspective Stories in Memoir ‘Rebel Girl: My Life as a Feminist Punk’ (BOOK REVIEW)			
 

				‘Licorice Pizza’ Can’t Carry Weight Of Its Parts (FILM REVIEW)			
 

				‘Loki’ Gives Us Loki vs. Loki in Episode 3 (TV REVIEW)			
 

				All the Movie Trailers from Super Bowl LIV			
 

				2021 Holiday Movie Preview: ‘Ghostbusters: Afterlife,’ ‘The Power of The Dog,’ ‘House of Gucci’ & More			
 

				60 Years Ago Today- The Beatles Launch Second U.S. Tour With Show At Daly City’s Cow Palace			
 

				SONG PREMIERE: Casual Male Drive Home Contagious Power Pop Via “Hondo Civic”			
 

				Yo La Tengo and Built to Spill Bring Legendary Indie Rock Sounds to Sold-out Portland, OR Crowd (SHOW REVIEW/PHOTOS)			
 

				Americana Legend Dave Alvin Shares Wondrous Stories, Favorite Books & New Album With Jimmie Dale Gilmour ‘ Texicali’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				CAUSTIC COMMENTARY: Ray LaMontagne, Hamish Hawk, Devon Allman, 38 Spesh, Tony Martinez & More			
 

				Eclectic Pop Artist Mary Ocher Shares Her Favorite Record Stores Across the World (VINYL LIVES)			
 

				Richmond, Virginia’s The Camel Keeps It Artist-Driven & Creatively Spirited (These Walls)			
 

				Saxophonist John Helliwell (Formerly Of Supertramp) On A Life Of Jazz After Prog-Pop (HEY YOU/INTERVIEW)			
 

				On The Map: Inside The Louis Armstrong House Museum In Corona, New York			
 

				The Replacements’ ‘Tim’ Let It Bleed Edition Proves Worth As Discerning & Durable Retrospective			
 

				TIME OUT TAKE FIVE: Falkner Evans, Franco Ambrosetti, Jan Hammer & More			
 

				SONG PREMIERE: Casual Male Drive Home Contagious Power Pop Via “Hondo Civic”			
 

				VIDEO PREMIERE: Veronica Lewis Reveals Stirring Alt-Pop Side On Emotive “Too Late For Tears”			
 

				SONG PREMIERE: Kelley Mickwee Lays Down Vibrant Memphis Soul Sound on “Force of Nature”			
 

				SONG PREMIERE: Ty Walker and the Humanoids Channel Galactic Twangy with Easygoing Psych-rock on “Never Odd or Even”			
 The Blood Sweat and Tears that created Child Is Father to the Man (released 2/21/68) is not the same band the public so wholeheartedly embraced via “And When I Die,” “You’ve Made Me So Very Happy” and “Spinning Wheel.” As it turns out, the group’s name is actually something of an abbreviation of the moniker applied to the original eight-piece lineup of a band aiming to combine rock and jazz into a cohesive whole. ‘Al Kooper’s Blood Sweat & Tears’ is wry self-reference to the man’s resourceful and meticulous ambition to pursue an elegant expansion of the style to which he contributed as a member of The Blues Project. The Brooklyn-born songwriter/musician/producer sought to add horns to the latter ensemble, but its members demurred, leaving unfulfilled, at least temporarily, Kooper’s desire to act on how deeply moved he was seeing Maynard Ferguson’s big band as a teenager. In the end, the very sophistication of BS & T’s debut was also its theoretical downfall. And that eventuality is all the more surprising given its release over half a century ago during that period of the late Sixties when such experimentation was at its arguable peak. The maturity of the work supersedes similar efforts of the time, including the Electric Flag and Chicago Transit Authority. The baroque orchestration of “Overture” teases the subsequent compositions on the BS&T album. In doing so, this opening track, plus the “Underture” that bookends the other ten cuts, supplies just enough of a unified concept; it’s one that’s ultimately never overstated and, in fact, the sound effects at this very juncture undercut any sense of over-serious intentions. Almost immediately thereafter, too horns and Blues Project alumnus Steve Katz’ electric guitar are prominent on “I Love You More Than You’ll Ever Know.” This arrangement of modified twelve-bar blues, far removed from the more elemental approaches of the era, mixes in more strings to a genuinely uplifting effect. One of six compositions (co-)authored by the keyboardist/vocalist at the helm of the band, it also provides contrast to outside material that accommodates equally varied and imaginative arrangements. Besides the closing cut “So Much Love,” co-written by Gerry Goffin and Carole King, the Tim Buckley co-write of “Morning Glory” benefits by the complexity of the horn backdrop, as does the cover of Harry Nillsson’s “Without Her” and this rendition of Randy Newman’s “Just One Smile.” The choice of the latter two comparably anonymous (at the time) sources of songs may be one of the most overlooked virtues of Child Is The Father to the Man. But that’s only because similarly pop-savvy originals like Kooper’s “My Days Are Numbered” and “I Can’t Quite Her ” render more confounding the lack of commercial success for Child Is Father to the Man. The reason this LP floundered, however, may lie in the lack of promotion: only the latter, piano-dominated tune was released as a single, despite the fact Katz’ “Meghan’s Gypsy Eyes” had similar potential.The lack of acclamation for Child Is Father To The Man–its title the source of a witty but surreal cover image–is all the more perplexing given that, as a means to fulfill his lofty ambitions, Kooper enlisted John Simon, fresh off his work on Simon & Garfunkel’s Bookends, to produce the album. Simon would go on to work closely with The Band on their first two LPs, but not before applying the same fastidious approach to the music Al Kooper sought at the outset of this whole project. It may very well be that painstaking approach that led to the internal friction resulting in the titular leader’s ouster. Needless to say, BS&T didn’t suffer in the short or long-term but neither did Al: as recounted in his entertaining memoir, Backstage Passes & Backstabbing Bastards: Memoirs of a Rock ‘N’ Roll Survivor, his rep as a studio musician stood him in good stead–he is the famous organ part on Bob Dylan’s “Like A Rolling Stone”–and, subsequent to his departure from Blood Sweat & Tears, he became a staff producer at Columbia Records, the label home of his former group. Predating his managership and production of the first three Lynyrd Skynyrd albums, Kooper’s first project was the now-iconic 1968 Super Session album with Paul Butterfield Blues Band emigre Michael Bloomfield and Stephen Stills, fresh off the breakup of Buffalo Springfield (but not yet firmly united with David Crosby and Graham Nash). Aiming at a burgeoning audience inclined to the collaboration of famous players, especially ones who enjoyed improvising–the eight-minute BS&T cut “Something Goin’ On” hinted in that very direction–the LP became a certified hit the year of its release and has only gained cachet over the course of time. It is that very recognition that Child Is Father to the Man should have received five and a half decades ago but grievously did not. Great article.
Was Doug Collette involved with the making of this album? This is a magnificent album.
 Full of fantastic arrangements and playing.
The choice of cover versions is excellent. This is a magnificent album.
 Full of fantastic arrangements and playing.
The choice of cover versions is excellent. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   

  Δ 

				Americana Legend Dave Alvin Shares Wondrous Stories, Favorite Books & New Album With Jimmie Dale Gilmour ‘ Texicali’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				Foo Fighters Prove Rock & Roll is Still King of the Stadium At Portland’s Providence Park (SHOW REVIEW)			
 

				CAUSTIC COMMENTARY: Ray LaMontagne, Hamish Hawk, Devon Allman, 38 Spesh, Tony Martinez & More			
 

				Pacific Northwest Rocker Casey Neill Finds Interconnections Between ‘time zero land’ and ‘Sending Up Flares’ (INTERVIEW)			
 

				Yo La Tengo and Built to Spill Bring Legendary Indie Rock Sounds to Sold-out Portland, OR Crowd (SHOW REVIEW/PHOTOS)			
 

				Devon Allman Tries On Neon Colored Grooves With Soulful ‘Miami Moon’ (ALBUM REVIEW)			
 
Email Address*

 
Name

 

